ROMEOVILLE, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 25-2032, passed 12-17-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ROSTER OF OFFICIALS
of the
VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE, ILLINOIS
Village President
John D. Noak
Village Clerk
Dr. Bernice E. Holloway
Board of Trustees
Linda Palmiter
Jose (Joe) Chavez
Brian A. Clancy Sr.
Dave Richards
Ken Griffin
Lourdes (Lou) Aguirre
Village Manager
Dawn Caldwell
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of construction
   
10.07   Construction of revised ordinances
   
10.08   Repeal of repealing act; rights saved
   
10.09   Severability
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Conflicting provisions
   
10.12   Reference to office
   
10.13   Errors and omissions
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Ordinances saved
   
10.17   Recording of ordinances
   
10.18   Recordation as prima facie evidence
   
10.19   Proof of ordinances
   
10.20   Amendments to code; amendatory language
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Romeoville Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.”
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the Smith-
Hurd Illinois Annotated Statutes.
   (B)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the
Illinois Annotated Statutes, such reference indicates that the section is
analogous or similar to the cited sections thereof. Footnotes, cross-references
and other comments are by way of explanation only and should not be deemed a
part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, not incompatible with future legislation, shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND or OR. Either conjunction may include the other, as if written “AND/OR,”
where the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Village of
Romeoville.
   CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in
this code shall denote the Municipality of Romeoville, Illinois, irrespective
of its population or legal classification.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Will County, Illinois.
   COURT. Any court of record.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFOR or HEREAFTER. HERETOFOR means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of the state, or of any town or county of the state, and all
bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, as heretofor and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. Indicates that the act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Romeoville.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPALITY or VILLAGE. The Municipality of Romeoville, Illinois.
   MUNICIPALITIES. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
   OATH. Includes affirmation and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OCCUPANT. See TENANT.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSONS. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships,
corporations, joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as
individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of a
municipality. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the
employ of a municipality as members of the Department of Police, who are or
shall hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, schoolyard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   S.H.A. Smith-Hurd Illinois Annotated Statutes.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. Includes any or all of the following: a sewage treatment
plant or plants; collecting, intercepting and outlet sewers; force mains,
conduits, lateral sewers and extensions, pumping stations, ejector stations and
all other appurtenances, extensions or improvements necessary or useful and
convenient for the collection, treatment and disposal, in a sanitary manner, of
sewage and industrial wastes. This term also includes the disconnection of
storm water drains and constructing outlets therefor, where, in any case, such
work is necessary to relieve existing sanitary sewers of storm water loads, in
order to permit the efficient operation of such sanitary sewers for collection,
treatment and disposal of sewage and industrial wastes.
   SHALL. Indicates that the act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property line intended for the use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning established in Article VII of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Romeoville.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WILL COUNTY BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners in counties not under
township organization, and the Board of Supervisors in counties under township
organization, and the Board of Commissioners of Cook County.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case they are unable
to write, their proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
Statutory reference:
   County board definition, see 5 ILCS 70/1.07
   Municipalities definition, see 5 ILCS 70/1.27
   Sewerage system definition, see 65 ILCS 5/11-141-1
§ 10.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Intent. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the
President and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (B)   Context and meaning. Words and phrases shall be read in context and
construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases
that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or
judicial definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (C)   Extension. As used in the code, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular;
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders; and
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (D)   Computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last
day is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute
now or hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If
the day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a
Saturday or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
      (2)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance
of such duty or compliance with such notice.
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. Words purporting to give joint authority to three or
more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority
to a majority of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
shall contain any express provision excluding such construction, or when the
subject matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 CONSTRUCTION OF REVISED ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those of
any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REPEAL OF REPEALING ACT; RIGHTS SAVED.
   (A)   No act or part of an act expressly repealed shall be deemed to be
revived by the repeal of the repealing act.
   (B)   No new law shall be construed to repeal a former law, whether such
former law is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense committed against
the former law, any act done or penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, any
right accrued or claim arising under the former law, or in any way whatever to
affect any such offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture
or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued, or claim arising before the
new law takes effect, except only that the proceedings shall, as far as
practicable, conform to the law in force at the time of the proceeding. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provisions of a new law,
such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied to any
judgment pronounced after the new law takes effect. This section shall extend
to all repeals, either by express words or by implication, whether the repeal
is in the act making any new provision upon the same subject or in any other
act.
   (C)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision
of a new law, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be
applied to any judgment pronounced after the new law takes effect. This
provision extends to all repeals, either by express words or by implication,
whether the repeal is in the act making any new provision on the same subject
or in any other act.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 70/3 and 5 ILCS 70/4
§ 10.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable, unless otherwise
provided by the section.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 70/1.31
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in such
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
such reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as
subsequently amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject
matter be changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REFERENCE TO OFFICE.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No such
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of such error.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body or a certain municipal officer or employee to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of said
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall
remain in effect and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 RECORDING OF ORDINANCES.
   The Municipal Clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the corporate authorities. Immediately
following each ordinance the Municipal Clerk shall make a memorandum of the
date of the passage and of the publication or posting, where required, of the
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-5
§ 10.18 RECORDATION AS PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   The record and memorandum required by §
10.17, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage and of the publication or posting of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-5
§ 10.19 PROOF OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The contents of all municipal ordinances, the date of passage and the
date of publication or posting, where required, may be proved by the
certificate of the Municipal Clerk, under the seal of the corporation.
   (B)   Whenever municipal ordinances are printed in book or pamphlet form,
and purport to be published by authority of the corporate authorities, such
book or pamphlet shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage and
legal publication of such ordinances, as of the dates mentioned in such book or
pamphlet, in all courts and administrative tribunals.
(Prior Code, § 10.19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-6
§ 10.20 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until the legislative body of the municipality shall adopt a new code of
ordinances.
   (B)   The following language should be used by the municipality to amend,
add or repeal a chapter, section or division:
      (1)   Section amended: “Section ______ of the Romeoville Code of
Ordinances is amended to read as follows:...;”
      (2)   Section added: “Section ______, which reads as follows, is added to
and amends the Romeoville Code of Ordinances:...;” and
      (3)   Section repealed: “Section ______ of the Romeoville Code of
Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed:...”
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offender is guilty of a petty offense, and shall be punished by a fine of no
less than $50 and not more than $750. Each day any violation of any of the
provisions of this code or of any ordinance continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to pass ordinances and impose penalties, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Village seal
§ 11.01 VILLAGE SEAL.
   (A)   The seal of the village shall be circular in form, with one large
circle, a slightly smaller circle within the large circle and an even smaller
circle within the slightly smaller circle. The words “Village of Romeoville”
are placed in the top arch of space separating the first two circles and
“Incorporated 1895” are placed in the bottom arch. These words shall be written
in Garamond Upper Case font. These two arches of text shall be separated by a
five-pointed star on each side. In the center of the innermost circle shall be
a line drawing of the Village Hall, focused on the tower. The tip of the tower
roof ever so slightly overlaps the top border of the innermost circle, bleeding
into the space above it. The seal shall be used in all cases that are now or
shall hereafter be provided by the laws of the United States, the laws of the
states of the United States and the ordinances of the village and in all cases
in which the laws and customs prescribe that it shall be necessary for a seal
to be used by a corporation.
   (B)   The village seal shall be and remain in the custody of the Village
Clerk, to be used by the Clerk and President of the Village Board of Trustees,
as the occasion may require.
(Prior Code, § 11.01) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 25-1987, passed 7-9-
2025)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICES
      
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS
      
35.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
36.   VILLAGE FINANCE
      
37.   EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND POLICIES
      
38.   EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
      
39.   VILLAGE POLICY
      
40.   ADMINISTRATIVE WARNING TICKETS
      
41.   ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION AND REVIEW
      
42.   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEE BENEFIT
CLAIMS
      
43.   FEE SCHEDULE
      
44.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Board meeting procedure
   
30.04   Declaring Trusteeship vacant
   
Appendix A:   Rules of Procedure for Village Board Public Hearings
   
Appendix B:   Rules of Procedure for “Petitions from the Public” Portion of
Regular Village Board Agendas
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Village Board shall be held at the Village Hall
on the first and third Wednesdays of each month at 6:00 p.m. However, if a
legal holiday falls on a meeting night, the meeting shall be held the following
Thursday unless otherwise posted in accordance with the Open Meetings Act.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907; Ord. 319, passed 8-4-1971;
Ord. 2613-98, passed 11-4-1998; Ord. 2669-99, passed 6-7-1999; Ord. 04-0148,
passed 5-5-2004; Ord. 05-0353, passed 12-21-2005; Ord. 07-0610, passed 11-21-
2007; Ord. 22-1764, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The President of the Board and two Trustees may call special meetings
of the Board. The call shall be in writing and signed by the President and two
of the members of the Board, shall specify the subject to be discussed at such
special meeting and shall be served by the President, Clerk or any member of
the Board.
   (B)   At the special meeting, no subjects shall be acted on except those
specified in the call. The place of meeting of the Village Board shall be at
such place as the Board may from time to time designate.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 30.03 BOARD MEETING PROCEDURE.
   The following, and any other provisions the Village Board may adopt by
motion, shall be the rules for the government of the deliberations of the
Village Board.
   (A)   The rules of procedure and order of business shall be adhered to
invariably by the Village Board, unless the same shall be suspended by consent
of two-thirds of the members present.
   (B)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Clerk (or someone appointed
to act in their absence) shall proceed to call the roll of members, marking the
absentees and announcing whether a quorum is present. On the appearance of a
quorum, the Board shall be called to order, the President taking the chair, if
present. The Board shall appoint a temporary replacement, if they should be
absent. The Board shall then proceed to the business before it, which shall be
conducted in the order following:
   Agenda
   Regular Meeting
   Board of Trustees
   Village of Romeoville
      (1)   Call to order - roll call;
      (2)   Posting of colors, pledge of allegiance;
      (3)   Public comment;
      (4)   Presentations;
      (5)   Consent agenda;
      (6)   Mayor’s report;
      (7)   Clerk’s report;
      (8)   Village Manager’s report;
      (9)   New business;
      (10)   Board comments (including Commission, Committee liaison reports);
      (11)   Executive session; and
      (12)   Adjournment.
   (C)   The President shall preserve order and peace, and shall decide all
questions of order subject to an appeal to the Board.
      (1)   Public hearings required by applicable law or ordinance to be held
by the Village Board of Trustees, other than public hearings contemplated or
provided for pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 157 shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures codified as
and set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter. Public hearings required or contemplated by
Chapter 157 and any relevant provisions of state statute shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of §
157.229.
      (2)   The “petitions from the public” portion of the regular Village
Board agenda as set forth in this section shall be conducted in accordance with
the procedures codified and as set forth in
Appendix B to this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   From time to time, the Mayor may make proclamations regarding
matters of concern to the village and its residents, for consideration and
acceptance by the Village Board. Proclamations are ceremonial and commemorative
in nature and do not have the legal force or effect of other legislative
actions of the village, such as ordinances or resolutions, and do not
constitute the endorsement by the Mayor or village of the substance expressed
within. Accordingly, proclamations are typically issued for reasons consistent
with their intended ceremonial purposes, including, but not necessarily limited
to, recognition of extraordinary achievement; supporting actions that improve
the quality of life within the village; raising public awareness of issues
directly affecting the village and its residents; expressing appreciation for
monetary donations, in-kind contributions, cultural contributions and volunteer
efforts made within the village and recognition of a time period to commemorate
achievements or contributions by groups or organizations located within or
benefitting the village and its residents. In light of the intended ceremonial
and commemorative purpose of village proclamations, the village will typically
not entertain requests for proclamations or issue proclamations on matters
outside the scope of its jurisdiction or legal authority or for purely
commercial purposes.
      (2)   Parties requesting a village proclamation consistent with the
preceding standards must provide a proposed draft proclamation to the Mayor’s
office at least one month in advance of the desired proclamation date, which
should consist of at least six recitals or “Whereas” clauses. Appropriate
citations to authority shall be provided for all factual or statistical
assertions contained within a proposed proclamation. The village reserves the
right to edit any and all requested proclamations, and to decline any requested
proclamation, at its discretion. Without limiting the foregoing, no more than
one requested proclamation will be approved by the village during any given
year on the same matter, and no more than one requested proclamation from any
requesting party will be approved during any given year. Requests for
proclamations from organizations lacking any physical presence in the state
will not be honored. The Mayor and Board may from time to time reasonably limit
the number of proclamations that may be considered at any given meeting.
   (E)   Every member who is present when the question is stated from the chair
shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Board, or unless they are directly in
the question, in which case they shall not vote.
   (F)   No motion shall be debated without first being seconded, and every
motion shall be reduced to writing if required by a member. A motion to adjourn
the Board shall always be in order and shall be put without debate.
   (G)   The Board of Trustees may create special committees of the Board as
the need arises.
   (H)   The President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees
shall appoint members to special purpose committees.
   (I)   The latest edition of “Robert’s Rules of Order” shall govern the
proceedings of this Board, except where in conflict with the foregoing rules.
   (J)   All persons who address the Board under petitions from the public must
record their name, address and phone number on a form provided by the Village
Clerk.
   (K)   The Village President and Village Trustees of the Village Board may
attend meetings of the Village Board by remote means, subject to and in
compliance with the provisions of this division (L) and the provisions of § 7
of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/7.
      (1)   If a quorum of the members of the Board is physically present, as
required by § 2.01 of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2.01, the
Board may, by majority vote, allow a physically absent member to attend a
closed or open meeting by video or audio conference if the member is prevented
from physically attending because of personal illness or disability, employment
purposes or the business of the public body or a family or other emergency.
      (2)   If a member of the Village Board as aforesaid wishes to attend a
meeting by video or audio conference, the member must notify the Village Clerk
before the meeting unless advance notice is impractical. Members of the Village
Board who are physically in attendance at a Board meeting shall determine, by
majority vote, whether a member who is not physically in attendance may
participate in that meeting by video or audio conference as requested.
      (3)   Written minutes of all Board meetings, whether open or closed,
shall include whether the members were present by video or audio conference. In
the absence of any such indication, the minutes shall be presumed to indicate
that members were present in person at the meeting in question.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907; Ord. 319, passed 8-4-1971;
Ord. 372, passed 9-5-1973; Ord. 379, passed 11-7-1973; Ord. 397, passed 4-10-
1974; Ord. 404, passed 5-15-1974; Ord. 462, passed 8-20-1975; Ord. 518, passed
12-15-1976; Ord. 530, passed 5-4-1977; Ord. 580, passed 11-2-1977; Ord. 989-87,
passed 3-18-1987; Ord. 2230-93, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2460-97, passed 2-5-1997;
Ord. 04-0148, passed 5-5-2004; Ord. 14-1129, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 22-1764,
passed 3-16-2022; Ord. 24-1919, passed 6-12-2024)
§ 30.04 DECLARING TRUSTEESHIP VACANT.
   The President, with the concurrence of at least two Trustees, shall be
empowered to declare the office of any Trustee vacant if they shall absent
themself from three regular consecutive meetings. However, no such office can
be declared vacant if member is absent on account of sickness.
(Prior Code, § 30.05) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
APPENDIX A: RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR VILLAGE BOARD PUBLIC HEARINGS
 
   (1)   Registration of Public Participants. Anyone who wishes to speak or
testify at the public hearing must sign-in prior to the commencement of the
public hearing on the sign-up cards or sheets available at the front door of
the meeting room. Speakers shall provide their names, and indicate the topic or
topics that they desire to address.
   (2)   Conduct of Hearing
      (a)   The Village President may impose reasonable limitations on evidence
or testimony presented by persons and parties, such as barring repetitious,
irrelevant or immaterial testimony. Each individual (other than an applicant)
shall have ten minutes to present their testimony. The meeting or hearing shall
not be governed by strict rules of evidence; however, irrelevant, immaterial,
or unduly repetitious evidence shall not be admissible or taken. The Village
President shall rule on all questions related to the admissibility or
materiality of evidence which ruling may be overruled by a majority vote of the
members of the body or board present. The Village President may impose
reasonable conditions on the hearing process and grant additional time for
evidence and testimony based on the following factors:
         (i)   The complexity of the issue;
         (ii)   Whether the witness possesses special expertise;
         (iii)   Whether the testimony reflects a matter of taste or personal
opinion or concerns a disputed issue of fact;
         (iv)   The degree to which the witness’s testimony relates to the
factors to be considered relating to the subject matter of the public hearing;
and
         (v)   Such other factors as are appropriate for the hearing.
      (b)   The Village President may take such actions as are required to
maintain an orderly and civil hearing. Discourtesy or disorderly conduct shall
be deemed a breach of order, and such misconduct shall be dealt with as
appropriate, including but not limited to expulsion from the hearing. All
persons presenting evidence or testimony, or who are otherwise participating in
the hearing shall first be recognized by the Village President prior to
proceeding, and shall either direct their remarks to the Village President, the
Village Board or direct their questions to a witness, as the case may be, and
shall refrain from engaging in colloquy or debate with members of the audience.
Likewise, all members of the audience not engaged in presenting testimony or
evidence or otherwise recognized by the Village President to speak shall
refrain from colloquy, debate or exclamation until such time as they may be so
engaged or recognized.
      (c)   All persons offering testimony at a public hearing shall testify
under oath. People participating shall identify themselves for the record,
giving their name and address, either orally or in writing, and indicate if an
attorney represents them.
      (d)   The order of presentation of evidence at a public hearing or
meeting shall generally be as follows, but may be modified as determined
appropriate by the Village President:
         (i)   Identification of applicant, where applicable.
         (ii)   Statement of the Village President or designee regarding the
nature of the public hearing and the statutory or ordinance provisions
providing for the conduct of such hearing.
         (iii)   Submittal of proof of notice as required by any applicable law
or ordinance.
         (iv)   Introduction of application by village staff, where applicable.
         (v)   Presentation of evidence and testimony by applicant, where
applicable.
         (vi)   Review of subject matter of public hearing and comment by
village staff or consultants.
         (vii)   Questions regarding subject matter of public hearing by
village elected or appointed officials.
         (viii)   Questions and comments regarding application or subject
matter of public hearing by members of public.
         (ix)   Presentation of testimony and evidence by others relating to
the application.
         (x)   Questions by village elected or appointed officials or applicant
regarding testimony and evidence by others.
         (xi)   Applicant response to questions and comments, where applicable.
         (xii)   In some cases, re-examination may be allowed by the Village
President, however re-examination shall be limited to the scope of matters
raised on cross-examination.
         (xiii)   At any point in the proceedings, the Village President or
other village elected or appointed officials may call upon witnesses who have
not previously testified, such as village staff and village consultants. The
elected or appointed officials, staff and consultants of the village may ask
questions at any time during the hearing or meeting.
      (e)   At the conclusion of an evidentiary portion of a public hearing,
the Village President or body present may move to close the public hearing,
move to deliberate on the evidence presented, or move to continue the hearing
to a date, time and location certain.
(Prior Code, Ch. 30, App. A) (Ord. 14-1129, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 14-1136,
passed 9-17-2014)
APPENDIX B: RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR “PETITIONS FROM THE PUBLIC” PORTION
OF REGULAR VILLAGE BOARD AGENDAS
 
   (1)   Registration of Petitions from the Public Participants. Anyone who
wishes to speak or comment during the Public Comment portion of a regular
Village Board meeting must sign-in prior to the commencement of the meeting on
the sign-up cards or sheets available at the front door of the Village Board
room. Speakers or those desiring to comment shall provide their names, and
indicate the topic or topics that they desire to address.
   (2)   Unless otherwise approved by a motion adopted by a majority vote of
the Village Board, speakers and persons desiring to comment during the Public
Comment portion of a regular Village Board meeting shall limit their remarks
and comments to no more than three minutes in length. Remarks and comments
shall be limited to matters appearing on the meeting agenda or matters
otherwise within the jurisdiction and legal authority of the Village. Prior to
commencing their remarks and comments, speakers and those desiring to comment
shall wait to be recognized by the Village President, and shall identify
themselves by name. The permitted duration of remarks and comments and of the
Public Comment period shall be determined by the use of a timer or stopwatch
operated by a member of the village staff in attendance at the meeting, and the
speaker or person desiring to comment shall promptly conclude their remarks and
vacate the podium upon the expiration of the allotted time as determined by the
timer or stopwatch in use.
   (3)   The Village President may take such actions as are required to
maintain order and civility during the Public Comment portion of the regular
Village Board meeting. Discourtesy or disorderly conduct shall be deemed a
breach of order, and such misconduct shall be dealt with as appropriate,
including but not limited to expulsion from the meeting. Speakers and persons
presenting comments shall refrain from colloquy or debate with members of the
audience. Likewise, all members of the audience not then recognized by the
Village President as a speaker or person desiring to comment shall likewise
refrain from colloquy, debate or exclamation until such time as they may be so
recognized.
   (4)   Nothing herein shall restrict the opportunity of the Village President
and Trustees to comment or remark after the conclusion of any comments or
remarks made by a person recognized to speak or comment during the Public
Comment portion of a regular Village Board meeting, but neither the Village
President nor the Village Trustees shall be under any obligation to so comment
or remark.
   (5)   Nothing herein shall limit the ability of the Village President and
Village Board of Trustees to invite and recognize persons to address the
Village Board during other portions of any workshop or regular Village Board
meeting, but such invitation and recognition shall be at the discretion of the
Village President and Village Board of Trustees.
   (6)   Nothing herein shall limit the ability of the Village President and
Village Board of Trustees to adjourn a given Board meeting to another date and
time in the event that the amount and length of public comment unduly delays
the conduct of Village business at the meeting.
(Prior Code, Ch. 30, App. B) (Ord. 14-1129, passed 7-14-2014; Ord. 14-1136,
passed 9-17-2014; Ord. 24-1919, passed 6-12-2024)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Appointment of officers
   
31.002   Time of appointment
   
31.003   Village officers
   
31.004   Bond required
   
31.005   Duties of officers
Village Manager
   
31.020   Creation of office; appointment; term
   
31.021   Qualifications and removal
   
31.022   Compensation
   
31.023   Powers and duties
   
31.024   Bond
   
31.025   Conflict of interests
   
31.026   Effect of Village Manager on powers of President and Board of Trustees
   
31.027   Personnel Division; Village Manager’s Office
Village Clerk
   
31.040   Village seal; village papers
   
31.041   Duties
   
31.042   Ordinance records
   
31.043   Bond
   
31.044   Annual tax levy ordinance to be filed with County Clerk
Village Attorney
   
31.060   Creation of office
   
31.061   Duties
   
31.062   Compensation
Village Treasurer
   
31.075   Creation of office; appointment
   
31.076   Receipts
   
31.077   Monthly reports
   
31.078   Annual report
   
31.079   Warrants
   
31.080   Violation by Treasurer; removal from office
   
31.081   Bond
   
31.082   Deputy Treasurer
Director of Public Safety
   
31.095   Creation of office; appointment
   
31.096   Village Manager to have authority over Director
   
31.097   Powers and duties
   
31.098   Budget
   
31.099   Director subject to provisions of personnel manual
   
31.100   Residency requirement
Assistant Village Manager
   
31.115   Creation of office
   
31.116   Appointment
   
31.117   Powers and duties
Cross-reference:
   Boards and commissions, see
Chapter 35
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see
Chapter 93
   Emergency services and disaster agency, see
Chapter 38
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 32
   Police Department, see
Chapter 33
   Village departments, see
Chapter 34
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 31.001 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   All officers of the village, listed in §
31.003, shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907; Ord. 408, passed 6-19-1974)
§ 31.002 TIME OF APPOINTMENT.
   The appointments shall initially be effective on August 1, 1974. The Village
President, with the advice and consent of the Village Board, shall appoint such
officers as listed in §
31.003 at the first regular meeting of the Village Board in August 1974.
Thereafter, the Village President, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board, shall appoint the officers on the first regular meeting of the Village
Board in May of each year, or as soon thereafter as may be practical and as
often as any vacancies may occur in any of the appointments.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907; Ord. 408, passed 6-19-1974)
§ 31.003 VILLAGE OFFICERS.
   The officers shall be as follows:
   (A)   Village Attorney;
   (B)   Village Manager;
   (C)   Village Engineer; and
   (D)   Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907; Ord. 408, passed 6-19-1974;
Ord. 1032-88, passed 4-20-1988)
Cross-reference:
   Village Attorney, see §§
31.060 through
31.062
§ 31.004 BOND REQUIRED.
   Every officer of the village enumerated in §
31.003 shall, before entering upon the duties of their office, give a bond to
the village in a sum as the Village Board may designate, or as may be specially
provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.04) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907; Ord. 408, passed 6-19-1974)
§ 31.005 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   Each officer, besides the specific duties which they may be required to do
by the provisions of this or any other ordinance, shall also perform such other
and further duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as the
Village Board shall from time to time pass or promulgate.
(Prior Code, § 31.05) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907; Ord. 408, passed 6-19-1974)
**** VILLAGE MANAGER ****
§ 31.020 CREATION OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Office of Village Manager is created. The Village Manager shall be
appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees
for an indefinite term as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 31.10) (Ord. 385, passed 1-16-1974; Ord. 04-0157, passed 7-7-
2004)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 385 was passed over President’s veto on January 16, 1974.
§ 31.021 QUALIFICATIONS AND REMOVAL.
   The Village Manager shall be chosen on the basis of their executive and
administrative qualifications with particular reference to their actual
experience in or their knowledge of accepted practices in respect to the duties
of their office. The Village Manager need not be an actual resident of the
village or the state. The Village Manager may be removed by the President and
Board of Trustees by a majority vote of the entire Board at any time.
(Prior Code, § 31.11) (Ord. 385, passed 1-16-1974; Ord. 04-0157, passed 7-7-
2004)
§ 31.022 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Manager shall receive as compensation an amount fixed from time
to time by the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 31.12) (Ord. 385, passed 1-16-1974)
§ 31.023 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Manager shall have and exercise all powers and duties
assigned to them by statute and such other authority as may be granted by the
President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Village Manager shall also exercise these specific duties as
follows.
      (1)   Control.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the Village Manager to exercise control
over all village departments and subdivisions thereof that may be created by
the Board of Trustees. They may recommend to the President and Board of
Trustees the appointment of all officers and other department heads of the
village, except the Police Chief and the Fire Chief, including those who are
required by law to be appointed by the President and Board of Trustees voting
jointly, and those who are required to be appointed by the President. They
shall further recommend the removal or suspension of any officer or employee
when such removal or suspension shall be consistent with the best interests of
the village. All recommendations for appointment or removal shall be based on
merit and the qualifications or disqualifications of such officer or employee
without regard to political belief or affiliation. They shall have the power to
recommend to the Board of Trustees the salaries, wages, hours and conditions of
employment of all officers and employees under their jurisdiction.
         (b)   Nothing herein shall limit the Board of Trustees from making the
final decision as to whom shall be employed or as to the amount of their
salaries or wages.
      (2)   Recommendations and advice. The Village Manager shall recommend to
the Board of Trustees the adoption of such measures as they may deem necessary
or expedient. They shall advise the Board of Trustees of the financial
condition of the village and the future financial needs of the village, and
make such recommendations as they deem appropriate.
      (3)   Annual financial report. The Village Manager shall prepare and
submit to the President and Board of Trustees at the conclusion of the fiscal
year or at any other time deemed appropriate by the aforementioned officials, a
complete report of the financial and administrative activities of the village
for the preceding fiscal year.
      (4)   The annual budget. The Village Manager shall prepare or cause to be
prepared an annual budget and shall submit the budget to the President and
Board of Trustees, together with a message outlining its important features on
or before the second Board of Trustees meeting in the month of May. They shall
be responsible for its administration after adoption provided that nothing
herein shall limit the duties and responsibilities of the Village Treasurer as
provided for in state statutes and the ordinances of this village.
      (5)   Attendance at meetings. The Village Manager shall be required to
attend all the regular and special meetings of the Board of Trustees unless
expressly excused by the Board.
      (6)   Purchases. The Village Manager shall purchase all materials,
supplies and equipment for which funds are provided in the budget provided that
no purchase shall be made, contract let or obligation incurred for any item or
service which exceeds the current budget appropriation without a supplemental
appropriation by the Board of Trustees. The authority of the Village Manager to
authorize purchase orders or contracts or to expend the funds of the village
shall be limited to $2,500. Any purchase order or contract in an amount in
excess of $2,500 shall be required to have sealed bids which shall be presented
to the Board of Trustees for its approval or rejection. The Village Manager
shall make recommendations to the President and Board of Trustees as to whether
a bid or contract offer is desirable or undesirable or which of several
contracts or bids submitted to the village is the most desirable.
      (7)   Investigation of complaints. The Village Manager shall investigate
all complaints in relation to matters concerning the administration of the
government of the village and services maintained by the public utilities in
the village and shall see that all franchises, permits and privileges created
by the village are faithfully observed.
      (8)   The absence or vacancy of Treasurer. The Village Manager during any
period of absence or vacancy of the Village Treasurer shall immediately assume
the duties and exercise the full powers of the office as provided for in the
village ordinances and state statutes. In no event shall the Village Manager be
required to obtain a bond in their capacity as acting Treasurer if, at the time
of the exercise of such duties, they have a bond in effect in an amount not
less than the amount provided for in §
31.024.
      (9)   Alternate signature. The Village Manager shall be designated as the
alternate signature on all village checks.
(Prior Code, § 31.13) (Ord. 385, passed 1-16-1974; Res. passed 8-21-1974; Ord.
479, passed 1-7-1976; Ord. 04-0157, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 31.024 BOND.
   (A)   The Village Manager shall furnish a bond before entering upon the
duties of their office in such sum as may be required by the President and
Board of Trustees. The amount of the bond shall not be less than the amount
which may be required from time to time by the statutes of the state. The bond
shall be conditioned on the faithful performance of their duties and shall be
conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss by reason of any neglect of
duty or any act of the Village Manager. The cost of the bond shall be paid by
the village.
   (B)   The Village Manager shall be bonded in the amount of $200,000.
(Prior Code, § 31.14) (Ord. 385, passed 1-16-1974; Res. passed 8-21-1974)
§ 31.025 CONFLICT OF INTERESTS.
   The Village Manager shall not be interested, directly or indirectly, in any
contract, work or business of the village, or in the sale of any article to the
village, or in the purchase of any property belonging to the village, or sold
for taxes or assessments or sold by virtue or legal processes in the suit of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 31.15) (Ord. 385, passed 1-16-1974)
§ 31.026 EFFECT OF VILLAGE MANAGER ON POWERS OF PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF
TRUSTEES.
   (A)   All functions, powers and duties conferred or imposed on the Village
Manager shall be subject to the superior right and power of the President and
Board of Trustees to supervise and administer the local government and affairs
of the village.
   (B)   However, all acts and things done by the Village Manager, pursuant to
the provisions in this subchapter, shall, unless otherwise expressly provided
herein, be final and conclusive unless and until superseded by the action of
the President and the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 31.16) (Ord. 385, passed 1-16-1974)
§ 31.027 PERSONNEL DIVISION; VILLAGE MANAGER’S OFFICE.
   There is created a human resources manager in the Village Manager’s office.
The following positions shall compile the Personnel Division: Village Manager,
Personnel Coordinator and Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 31.17) (Ord. 551, passed 9-7-1977)
**** VILLAGE CLERK ****
§ 31.040 VILLAGE SEAL; VILLAGE PAPERS.
   The Village Clerk shall be the keeper of the village seal and shall affix it
to all instruments and papers which, by law or ordinance, are required to be
attested by the village seal. They shall have the custody of and safely keep
all public records, documents, ordinances, resolutions and orders of the
Village Board and such other papers and documents as may be delivered into
their custody.
(Prior Code, § 31.25) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 31.041 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to attend all meetings of the
Village Board, and keep a full record of its proceedings in the journal. They
shall prepare all warrants for the payment of money, countersign and deliver
them when called for after they have been registered by the Treasurer, taking a
proper receipt for the same. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to
publish, as required by the chapter, the Treasurer’s and Collector’s annual
report filed with them between April l and April 10 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 31.26) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 31.042 ORDINANCE RECORDS.
   All ordinances passed by the Village Board shall be recorded by the Clerk,
before the next regular meeting after their passage, in a book to be kept for
that purpose. The Clerk shall note, at the foot of the record of each
ordinance, a memorandum of the date of its passage, the date of its approval by
the President and the date of the publication of such ordinance in book and
pamphlet form or by newspaper, or in case there is no newspaper published in
the village, the places where and when posted. This record and memorandum or a
certified copy thereof shall be prima facie evidence of the passage and legal
publication or posting of an ordinance for all purposes whatsoever. The
original shall be filed in the office of the Clerk with a certificate of
publication or posting attached to the ordinances requiring publication or
posting.
(Prior Code, § 31.27) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 31.043 BOND.
   The Village Clerk, upon entering on their duties, shall be required to
execute to the village an official bond with two or more sureties, in the penal
sum of not less than $2,000 conditioned for the faithful discharge of the
duties of their office.
(Prior Code, § 31.28) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 31.044 ANNUAL TAX LEVY ORDINANCE TO BE FILED WITH COUNTY CLERK.
   On or before the second Tuesday of September of each year, the Village Clerk
shall file in the office of the County Clerk a certified copy of the annual tax
levy ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.29) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
**** VILLAGE ATTORNEY ****
§ 31.060 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The Office of Village Attorney is established as provided by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 31.35) (Ord. 274, passed 6-18-1969)
Statutory reference:
   Village Attorney, appointment, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 31.061 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to appear for the village in
all cases, in all courts wherein the village is a party; to give legal opinions
when required on subjects submitted to them by the Village Board; to draft
ordinances, contracts, deeds, bonds and all other legal papers; and to act as
legal advisor to the President, the Village Board and committees thereof, in
all matters pertaining to the village. It shall also be the duty of the Village
Attorney to attend the meetings of the Village Board when required. On the
happening of any accident which may be likely to be the foundation for a suit
or proceeding against the village, for damages or otherwise, it shall be the
duty of the Village Attorney, as soon as they are notified or otherwise
receives information of the happening of any such accident, to supervise and
direct an investigation of the accident and examine all the facts touching the
same and make a full memorandum for the use of the village and its officers and
file all necessary evidence collected with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.36) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 31.062 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Attorney shall receive, as compensation for their services, such
sum as the Board may determine per hour, and in addition thereto reasonable
compensation for every case in which they may appear on behalf of the village
in any court.
(Prior Code, § 31.37) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
**** VILLAGE TREASURER ****
§ 31.075 CREATION OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT.
   The Office of Village Treasurer is created. The Village Treasurer shall,
before the beginning of each fiscal year, be appointed by the President of the
Village Board with the consent of the Board. The Treasurer shall receive all
monies belonging to the corporation, and shall keep their books and accounts in
such manner as may now or hereafter be prescribed by the Board. Such books and
accounts shall be subject to the inspection of the President or any member of
the Village Board at any time without notice.
(Prior Code, § 31.45) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of Treasurer, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5
§ 31.076 RECEIPTS.
   They shall give every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt
therefor, specifying the date of payment and on what account the payment was
made, and shall also file copies of the receipt with the Clerk at the date of
their monthly report.
(Prior Code, § 31.46) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 31.077 MONTHLY REPORTS.
   The Treasurer shall, at the end of every month and more often if required,
render an account to the Board of Trustees, showing the state of the Treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of the money in the Treasury. They
shall accompany the account with a statement of all monies received into the
Village Treasury and on what account, together with all warrants redeemed and
paid by them. These warrants with any and all vouchers held by the Treasurer
shall be delivered to the Clerk and filed with the account in the Clerk’s
office on every day of the settlement. The Treasurer return all warrants paid
by them, stamped or marked “paid.” They shall keep a register describing all
warrants redeemed and paid, and showing the date, amount, number, the account
from which paid and the name of the person to whom and when paid.
(Prior Code, § 31.47) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 31.078 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to September 1 of each year, the Village Treasurer shall
prepare and file with the Village Clerk an account of all monies received and
expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year.
      (2)   The Village Treasurer shall show in such account:
         (a)   All monies received by the municipality, indicating the total
amounts, in the aggregate, received in each account of the village, with a
general statement concerning the source of such receipts; provided, for the
purposes of this division (A)(2)(a), the term ACCOUNT shall not be construed to
mean each individual taxpayer, householder, licensee, utility user or such
other persons whose payments to the municipality are credited to a general
account;
         (b)   All monies paid out by the village, giving the name of each
person to whom paid, on what account paid and the total amount, in the
aggregate, paid to each person from each account; and
         (c)   A statement showing the state of the Village Treasury at the
close of the fiscal year.
   (B)   On receipt of such account from the Village Treasurer, the Village
Clerk shall publish the account at least once in a newspaper published in the
village, or, if no newspaper is published therein, then in one or more
newspapers having a general circulation within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 31.48) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907; Ord. 533, passed 5-18-1977)
§ 31.079 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn on the Treasurer must be signed by the President and
countersigned by the Clerk of the village, and contain the name of the person
to whom payable. No money shall be paid other than such warrants so drawn
except as thereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 31.49) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 31.080 VIOLATION BY TREASURER; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Any violation on the part of the Village Treasurer of any of the
provisions of this subchapter shall subject them to immediate removal from
office by the Board of Trustees, authorized to declare the office vacant.
   (B)   Their successor shall be appointed as provided in §§
31.001 and
31.002 and shall hold the office for the remainder of the unexpired term of the
officer removed.
(Prior Code, § 31.50) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 31.081 BOND.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer, before entering on the duties of office, shall
give a bond in such a sum as may be required by the corporate authorities, but
the bond shall not be less than an amount that may be provided for by state
statute with sureties approved by the corporate authorities.
   (B)   The bond shall be conditioned on the faithful performance by the
Village Treasurer of their duties of office and shall indemnify the village for
any loss due to any neglect of duties or wrongful act on the part of the
Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.51) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907; Ord. 533, passed 5-18-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Oath and bond, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25 and 65 ILCS 3.1-10-30
§ 31.082 DEPUTY TREASURER.
   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45, the Treasurer is authorized to designate a
subordinate to serve as Deputy Treasurer. Said Deputy Treasurer shall have all
the powers and authority granted by state statute or this village code to the
Treasurer. Said designation shall be made by way of letter, addressed to the
President and Board of Trustees with a copy to the Village Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 31.52) (Ord. 2287-94, passed 8-3-1994)
**** DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY ****
§ 31.095 CREATION OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Office of the Director of Public Safety is created.
   (B)   The exempt position of Director of Public Safety shall be appointed by
the Village Manager from the ranks of the sworn and commissioned officers of
the village from the rank of sergeant or above, including Chief of Police. The
Director of Public Safety shall be appointed based upon their demonstrated
ability, knowledge and experience in the management of governmental affairs
affecting all aspects of public safety.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the Director of Public Safety
shall be the head of this village department.
(Prior Code, § 31.60) (Ord. 857, passed 7-13-1983)
§ 31.096 VILLAGE MANAGER TO HAVE AUTHORITY OVER DIRECTOR.
   The Village Manager shall have direct authority over and control of the
Director of Public Safety regarding their duties to be performed and
responsibilities to be fulfilled.
(Prior Code, § 31.61) (Ord. 857, passed 7-13-1983)
§ 31.097 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   At the direction of the Village Manager, the Director of Public Safety
shall perform advisory tasks and exercise administrative responsibilities, as
may be delegated to them from time to time, in order to improve the efficiency
and coordinate the functions of the following departments so as to assist them
in performing their integrated public safety obligations to the residents of
the village:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   Fire Department;
      (3)   Emergency Services and Disaster Agency;
      (4)   Paramedics; and
      (5)   Public Works, insofar as it pertains to public safety.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety shall also assist in community
development and improvement by serving as liaison between the Office of the
Village Manager, code enforcement officer and members of the general public.
The Director of Public Safety shall also be responsible for suggesting and
developing methods of improving highway transportation safety within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   At any time during an emergency, the Director of Public Safety shall
assist the Village President and Village Manager in attempting to alleviate and
reduce catastrophes that befall the village, whether human-made or natural,
including acting as a coordinator of aid and assistance from federal, state and
other governmental entities.
   (D)   The Director of Public Safety, at the request of the Village Manager,
shall act as a liaison for all of the above departments and activities, and
shall be responsible for seeking and obtaining grant funds in order to improve
all aspects of public safety within the village.
(Prior Code, § 31.62) (Ord. 857, passed 7-13-1983)
§ 31.098 BUDGET.
   The Director of Public Safety shall be required to submit a budget to the
Village Manager at such time as may be requested for the purpose of determining
the costs of maintaining all administrative and executive functions of their
office.
(Prior Code, § 31.63) (Ord. 857, passed 7-13-1983)
§ 31.099 DIRECTOR SUBJECT TO PROVISIONS OF PERSONNEL MANUAL.
   The Director of Public Safety shall be subject to all the terms and
provisions as set forth in the personnel manual.
(Prior Code, § 31.64) (Ord. 857, passed 7-13-1983)
Cross-reference:
   Personnel manual, see
Chapter 37, App. A
§ 31.100 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Director of Public Safety shall be a resident of the village within one
year after their appointment to the position.
(Prior Code, § 31.65) (Ord. 857, passed 7-13-1983)
**** ASSISTANT VILLAGE MANAGER ****
§ 31.115 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   There is created the Office of Assistant Village Manager.
(Prior Code, § 31.75) (Ord. 2540-98, passed 2-18-1998)
§ 31.116 APPOINTMENT.
   The Assistant Village Manager shall be appointed by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 31.76) (Ord. 2540-98, passed 2-18-1998)
§ 31.117 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Assistant Village Manager shall have such powers and duties prescribed
by the President and Board of Trustees and shall serve under the supervision of
the Village Manager.
(Prior Code, § 31.77) (Ord. 2540-98, passed 2-18-1998)
CHAPTER 32: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Fire Department
   
32.001   Establishment; membership
   
32.002   Duties of Fire Department
   
32.003   Enforcement of chapter
   
32.004   Firefighters’ pension fund
   
32.005   State reimbursement training program
Ambulance Service
   
32.020   Statements for service
Recover of Costs Incurred in Responding to
Hazardous Substances Releases and Incidents
   
32.035   Definitions
   
32.036   Recitals
   
32.037   Prohibited acts
   
32.038   Liability for removal and remedial action costs
   
32.039   Defenses
   
32.040   Removal and remedial action
   
32.041   Actions, costs and penalties
HIPAA Compliance Policy and Procedures
   
32.055   Adoption of policy
 
   
32.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   HIPAA Privacy Rule Compliance Policy
Cross-reference:
   Chaplaincy program, see §
39.060
   Fire Prevention, see
Chapter 91
**** FIRE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 32.001 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is created and established a Fire Department consisting of a
Fire Chief, such full-time members and such part-time members of the Fire
Department in such numbers as may from time to time be authorized by the
President and Board of Trustees. The provision of a specific number of members
in a budget or levy ordinance adopted by the President and Board of Trustees
shall not be construed to constitute an authorization to the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners of the number of positions available in the Fire
Department. The authorization to the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of
the number of members in the Department shall be by a vote taken specifically
for that purpose by the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Fire Department full-time sworn personnel ranks are authorized as
follows:
      (1)   Fire Chief;
      (2)   Deputy Chief;
      (3)   Assistant Chief;
      (4)   Battalion Chief;
      (5)   Division Chief;
      (6)   Captain;
      (7)   Lieutenant;
      (8)   Firefighter/paramedic Tier 1;
      (9)   Firefighter/paramedic Tier 2; and
      (10)   Candidate (probationary firefighter/ paramedic).
   (C)   The Fire Chief, Deputy Chief(s), Assistant Chief(s) and Battalion
Chief(s) shall be appointed by, and may be removed by and at the pleasure of,
the President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Except for the positions of Fire Chief, Deputy Chief, Assistant Chief
and Battalion Chief, the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall be
responsible for the appointment, promotion, discipline, discharge and any other
personnel actions concerning full-time, sworn personnel, as authorized and
provided by law.
   (E)   Fire Department part-time personnel positions are authorized as
follows:
      (1)   Division Chief;
      (2)   Captain;
      (3)   Lieutenant;
      (4)   Firefighter/paramedic;
      (5)   Firefighter/EMT; and
      (6)   Candidate (probationary firefighter/ paramedic or probationary
firefighter/EMT).
   (F)   All such authorized part-time personnel shall be appointed by the
Chief and serve at the pleasure of the Chief. The employment of part-time
personnel shall not be governed by the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1 et seq.
All such authorized part-time personnel appointed by the Chief shall be
required as a condition of their initial or continuing appointment to take an
oath of office, in the form set forth in Article XIII, § 3 of the Illinois
Constitution of 1970. Upon taking the oath of office, such personnel shall be
considered sworn personnel within the meaning of §§
35.080 et seq.
   (G)   All applicants for positions as sworn personnel within the Fire
Department shall be citizens of the United States.
   (H)   All individuals in the positions of full-time sworn personnel in the
rank of Captain and below, at the time of the enactment of this section, shall
have their employment governed by the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1 et seq.,
regardless of the manner of their original appointment, and shall be entitled
to the rank held at the time of the enactment of this section.
   (I)   If a full-time member of the Department is appointed as Chief, Deputy
Chief, Assistant Chief or Battalion Chief, prior to being eligible to retire on
pension, they shall be considered to be on furlough from the rank they held
immediately prior to their appointment. If they resign or are discharged as
Chief, Deputy Chief, Assistant Chief or Battalion Chief, prior to attaining
eligibility to retire on pension, they shall revert to and be established in
such prior rank, and thereafter be entitled to all the benefits and emoluments
of such prior rank without regard as to whether a vacancy then exists in such
rank.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 398, passed 4-17-1974; Ord. 399, passed 5-1-1974;
Ord. 05-0341, passed 11-16-2005; Ord. 07-0516, passed 3-7-2007; Ord. 07-0601,
passed 11-7-2007; Ord. 10-0857, passed 5-5-2010; Ord. 11-0941, passed 11-16-
2011; Ord. 19-1584, passed 7-17-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Bureau of Fire Prevention, see §§
91.15 through
91.27
§ 32.002 DUTIES OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the function and duties of the Fire Department and every member
thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires, to prevent the
occurrence or spread of fires and to enforce all ordinances relating to the
occurrence or spread of such fires.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 398, passed 4-17-1974; Ord. 399, passed 5-1-1974)
§ 32.003 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   It shall be the duty of all officers of the Fire Department and all police
officers of the village to see that the provisions of this chapter are enforced
and to arrest on view any person who shall be found violating any of the
provisions of this chapter or who shall hinder, resist or refuse to obey any
such officer in the discharge of their duty. To that end, all officers are
vested with the usual power and authority of police officers.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 398, passed 4-17-74; Ord. 399, passed 5-1-1974)
§ 32.004 FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION FUND.
   (A)   There is created a Firefighters’ Pension Fund in the village, which
fund shall be kept and maintained separate and apart from all other funds and
monies of the village and shall be administered in accordance with the
provisions of 40 ILCS 5 and all amendments thereof.
   (B)   The Treasurer of the village shall be ex-officio Treasurer and
custodian of the Pension Fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 2115-91, passed 7-24-1991)
§ 32.005 STATE REIMBURSEMENT TRAINING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The village elects to participate in the programs provided for in the
Illinois Fire Protection Training Act.
   (B)   Before an individual may commence regular full-time employment as a
firefighter, they must have been certified by the State Fire Marshal as a
firefighter II, as having successfully completed an approved training course as
provided in said Act.
   (C)   The firefighter II certification must be completed by the trainee
within their probationary period of 12 months. Failure of any trainee to
complete such basic training and certification within the required period will
render that individual and local governmental agency ineligible for
reimbursement funding for basic training for that individual in the fiscal year
in which their probationary period ends. The individual may later become
certified without reimbursement.
   (D)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners are instructed and directed
to make the necessary amendments to the personnel rules, the “Manual of Rules
of the Romeoville Fire Department” and rules of said Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners in order to require that any person appointed to the Village Fire
Department shall not become a regular member of the Village Fire Department
unless and until they shall complete, pursuant to said Illinois Fire Protection
and Training Act, the approved training course within 12 months of the date of
their initial employment.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 2165-92, passed 3-4-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Fire Protection and Training Act, see 50 ILCS 740/1 et seq.
**** AMBULANCE SERVICE ****
§ 32.020 STATEMENTS FOR SERVICE.
   The Village Treasurer is authorized and directed to send statements for
services rendered to each individual who is transported by ambulance or in the
case of a minor to the parent or legal guardian and to collect such charges.
(Prior Code, § 32.15) (Ord. 497, passed 7-7-1976)
**** RECOVER OF COSTS INCURRED IN RESPONDING TO
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES RELEASES AND INCIDENTS ****
§ 32.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF. The Chief of the Fire Department of the village.
   DEPARTMENT. The Fire Department of the village.
   FACILITY. Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or
pipeline, well, pit, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, motor vehicle capable of traveling on land, rolling stock or
aircraft or any place or area where any hazardous substance has been placed,
deposited, stored, disposed of or otherwise come to be located.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Any substance designated pursuant to § 311(b)(2)(A) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. §
1321(b)(2)(A)), as amended from time to time; any element, compound, mixture,
solution or substance designated pursuant to § 102 of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (Pub. Law No.
96-510, being 42 U.S.C. § 9602), as amended from time to time; any hazardous
waste falling within the definition set forth in 415 ILCS 5/3.220, as amended
from time to time; any toxic pollutant listed under § 307(a) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act (Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)),
as amended from time to time, any hazardous air pollutant listed under § 112 of
the Clean Air Act (Pub. Law No. 95-95, being 42 U.S.C. § 7412), as amended from
time to time; any imminently hazardous chemical substance or mixture with
respect to which the Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency has taken action pursuant to § 7 of the Toxic Substances
Control Act (Pub. Law No. 94-469, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2606), as amended from
time to time; and any substance designated as a hazardous material pursuant to
the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (Pub. Law No. 93-633, see 49 U.S.C.
§§ 5101 et seq., (formerly the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49
U.S.C. §§ 1801 et seq.)), as amended from time to time.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. Any person enumerated or defined as an owner or an
operator under 415 ILCS 5/22.2(h)(2), as amended from time to time.
   PERSON. Any natural person. partnership, firm, company, corporation, limited
liability company, association, trust, Illinois Land Trust beneficiary or
entity whatsoever or any combination of the foregoing, but shall specifically
exclude the village, its agencies, departments and employees.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or otherwise by any means
whatsoever transmitting into the environment any hazardous substance.
   REMEDIATE, REMEDIAL or REMEDIATION. All actions whatsoever and without
limitation consistent with permanently preventing a release or substantial
threat of release, or permanently repairing or alleviating any harm, danger,
damage or migration of hazardous substances caused by a release or a
substantial threat of a release, and may, at the discretion of the village, the
Department or the Chief, be taken in addition to or in lieu of removal actions.
By way of example and not by way of limitation, REMEDIATE, REMEDIAL or
REMEDIATION include actions at the location of a release or substantial threat
of a release, such as storage, confinement, perimeter protection using dikes,
trenches or ditches, use of clay cover, neutralization of hazardous substances,
cleanup or hazardous substances of materials or property contaminated thereby,
recycling, reuse, segregation of hazardous substances from other materials or
property, dredging, excavation, replacement of broken or leaking containers,
collection of leachate and runoff, provision of alternative water supplies and
any monitoring activities necessary to protect and preserve the health, safety
and welfare of the citizens and residents of the village or to protect property
within the village.
   REMOVAL or REMOVE. The cleanup or disposal of hazardous substance released
into the environment, together with such actions as may be necessary in
response to a substantial threat of the release of a hazardous substance;
actions necessary to monitor, assess and evaluate the release or substantial
threat of release of hazardous substances; and all actions whatsoever and
without limitation that are necessary to protect or mitigate damage to the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens and residents of the village and
property within the village. By way of example and not by way of limitation,
REMOVE and REMOVAL include providing access control measures, potable water
supplies, temporary evacuation and housing of individuals threatened by a
release or substantial threat of release, provision of emergency medical
services to individuals affected by a release or substantial threat of release
and the provision of any emergency assistance or disaster relief permitted
under the provisions of any applicable law.
   SITE. Any location containing a facility or facilities.
   VESSEL. Any vehicle, boat, ship, barge or other craft capable of traveling
on water.
(Prior Code, § 32.25) (Ord. 2601-98, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 32.036 RECITALS.
   The foregoing recitals are incorporated into this subchapter as if fully set
forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 32.26) (Ord. 2601-98, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 32.037 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall cause, permit or allow the release of any hazardous
substances into the environment unless the release in question occurs in
accordance with any lawfully granted permit or approval from the State
Environmental Protection Agency or the United States Environmental Protection
Agency, or from any other state or federal agency lawfully exercising
jurisdiction over the release, and the release is otherwise conducted in such a
manner and at such a place as to prevent the creation of any substantial threat
to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 32.27) (Ord. 2601-98, passed 8-19-1998) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.038 LIABILITY FOR REMOVAL AND REMEDIAL ACTION COSTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other rule or provision of law, and subject only
to the defenses set forth in §
32.039, the following enumerated classes of persons shall be jointly and
severally liable for all costs incurred by the village or the department, or by
any other unit of local government tendering assistance to the village or the
department, in connection with the removal of or remedial action taken with
respect to any release or substantial threat of release of hazardous substances
within the corporate limits of the village:
      (1)   The owner or operator of any facility or vessel from which there is
a release or substantial threat of a release of a hazardous substance;
      (2)   Any person who, at the time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of a hazardous substance owned or operated the facility or vessel
used for such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of a hazardous substance;
      (3)   Any person who by contract, agreement or otherwise has arranged
with another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous substances owned, controlled or possessed by such person at a
facility owned or operated by another person, and from which facility there is
a release or substantial threat of release of such hazardous substances;
      (4)   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous substances for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment sites or facilities, from which
there is a release or substantial threat of release of such hazardous
substance;
      (5)   Any person who as a result of any conduct, action, inaction or
omissions causes or contributes to a release or spill of a hazardous substance
which creates or threatens to create an environmental emergency of any kind as
a result of or related to a release or spill of a hazardous substance; and
      (6)   Any person who as a result of any conduct, action, inaction or
omission causes or contributes to a violation of the provisions of §
32.037.
   (B)   In the event that an agent for the party responsible for the hazardous
substance release is present at the scene of the release of the hazardous
substance, the agent shall, on behalf of the party responsible for the
hazardous substance release, be required to immediately contact a contractor
approved by the village to begin remediation or removal actions. If no agent
for the responsible party is present at the scene of the release of the
hazardous substance, or in the event said agent refuses to act as required by
this division (B), the village reserves the right to contact any contractor
approved by the village to immediately begin remediation and removal operations
on behalf of the party responsible for the hazardous substance release. Should
the village be so required to arrange for a contractor to begin removal and
remediation operations on behalf of the party responsible for the hazardous
substance release, the party responsible for the hazardous substance release
shall remain liable for all costs related to the release incurred by the
village in connection with the remediation and removal of the hazardous
substance release.
   (C)   Any person liable under this subchapter for costs incurred by the
village or the department, or by any other unit of local government rendering
assistance to the village or the Department, in connection with the removal of
or remedial action taken with respect to any release or substantial threat of
release of hazardous substances within the corporate limits of the village
shall remit the amount of such costs to the village within ten days after
receiving written notice of the amount of such costs from the village, which
notice shall be transmitted to such person via registered mail, return receipt
requested, or by any other means available to the village which is reasonably
likely to cause such person to receive said notice.
   (D)   In calculating the amount of removal or response costs for which a
person is liable under this subchapter, the village and the Department shall
observe the following guidelines.
      (1)   The cost for all services, equipment, goods and materials obtained
from third parties other than the village or the department, whether public or
private, which are used, consumed, destroyed or otherwise rendered unusable or
unavailable to the village and the Department as a result of any removal or
remedial action taken pursuant to this subchapter shall be the amount reflected
on the invoices or statements to the village or the department from the third
parties providing such services, equipment, goods and materials.
      (2)   All services, equipment, goods and materials needed to clean,
mitigate or eradicate any environmental emergency shall be supplied by an
entity pre-approved by the village. In the event that the responsible party
obtains services from an entity not pre-approved by the village, the
responsible party may be subject to reimburse the village for all costs
relating to the environmental emergency.
      (3)   The cost for all village or Department personnel utilized in
effectuating any removal or remedial action under this subchapter shall be
equivalent to the reasonable value of the time of such personnel to the village
and the Department, taking into account all relevant facts and circumstances,
but in no event shall such reasonable value be less than $50 per hour for
firefighter, basic rescue or paramedic response time, nor less than $100 per
hour for hazmat team members, dive team members or other specially/technically
trained rescue personnel, or as otherwise established from time to time under §
43.03, whichever shall more fully reimburse the village.
      (4)   The cost for all village and Department vehicles and equipment
utilized in effectuating any removal or remedial action under this subchapter
shall be equivalent to the reasonable value of such use of said vehicles to the
village and the department, taking into account all relevant facts and
circumstances, but in no event shall such reasonable value be less than $400
per hour for engines, $500 per hour for trucks and $300 per hour for other
deployed equipment, or as otherwise established from time to time under §
43.03, whichever shall more fully reimburse the village.
   (E)   No indemnification, insurance, hold harmless, risk shifting or other
similar agreement, or any conveyance of any facility, site or vessel, shall be
effective to transfer any liability to the village or the Department for
removal or remedial action costs from the person on whom such liability is
imposed by this subchapter, but nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit any
person on whom such liability is imposed by this subchapter from enforcing an
indemnification, insurance, hold harmless, risk shifting or other similar
agreement or any conveyance of any facility, site or vessel against another
person. Furthermore, nothing in this subchapter shall bar any cause of action
which any person subject to liability for removal or remedial action costs
under this subchapter has against any other person for such liability, whether
by contribution, subrogation or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 32.28) (Ord. 2601-98, passed 8-19-1998; Ord. 14-1150, passed 12-
3-2014; Ord. 18-1481, passed 5-2-2018)
§ 32.039 DEFENSES.
   No liability shall be imposed under this subchapter against any person
otherwise subject to such liability who can establish by a preponderance of the
evidence that the release or substantial threat of release forming the basis
for such liability was caused by:
   (A)   An act of God;
   (B)   An act of war;
   (C)   An act or omission or a third party, other than an employee or agent
of the person against whom such liability is asserted and other than a third
party whose act or omission occurs in connection with a contractual
relationship, existing directly or indirectly with the person against whom such
liability is asserted, except those third parties with whom the contractual
relationship arises solely from a published tariff and acceptance for carriage
by a common carrier by rail, but only if the person against whom such liability
is asserted proves by a preponderance of the evidence that they exercised due
care with respect to the hazardous substance concerned, taking into
consideration the characteristics of such substance in light of all relevant
facts and circumstance, and that they took precautions against foreseeable acts
or omissions of any such third party and the consequences that could
foreseeably result from such acts or omissions; or
   (D)   Any combination of the foregoing.
(Prior Code, § 32.29) (Ord. 2601-98, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 32.040 REMOVAL AND REMEDIAL ACTION.
   The village and the Department shall have the authority to take all removal
and remedial action necessary to respond to a release or substantial threat of
a release of hazardous substances within the corporate limits of the village,
and to take all removal and remedial action required or permitted under the
terms of a mutual aid agreement or similar intergovernmental agreement with one
or more units of local government. In the event of the occurrence of a release
or a substantial threat of a release of hazardous substances which the village
and the Department may remove or remediate pursuant to this subchapter, the
Chief of the Department or their designee shall have the authority to determine
the necessity for removal or remedial action, the form and manner of such
removal and remedial action, to utilize all available resources and personnel
to effectuate such removal and remedial action and to otherwise direct and
control the conduct of all removal or remedial action taken until such time as
any appropriate state or federal agency having jurisdiction over the release or
substantial threat of a release of hazardous substances asserts such
jurisdiction over said release or substantial threat of release, and the
removal and remediation thereof, or until such time as all necessary removal
and remedial action has been completed in accordance with applicable state or
federal statutes or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 32.30) (Ord. 2601-98, passed 8-19-1998)
§ 32.041 ACTIONS, COSTS AND PENALTIES.
   The village shall have the authority to prosecute any and all violations of
this subchapter by means of appropriate actions filed therefor in the Circuit
Court of the 12th Judicial Circuit of the county. The relief available to the
village in such an action shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
recovery of all costs of removal or remedial action for which the violator is
liable pursuant to this subchapter and the costs incurred in the action.
(Prior Code, § 32.31) (Ord. 2601-98, passed 8-19-1998) Penalty, see §
32.999
**** HIPAA COMPLIANCE POLICY AND PROCEDURES ****
§ 32.055 ADOPTION OF POLICY.
   Pursuant to the enactment of Pub. Law No. 104-191, known as the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (being 42 U.S.C. §§ 201 et
seq., “HIPAA”), and the applicable regulations promulgated pursuant thereto,
included, but not limited to, the “privacy rule,” codified at 45 C.F.R. pts.
160 and 164, the Village Fire Department, as a covered “health care provider,”
as defined under HIPAA and the privacy rule is required to take such measures
as necessary to ensure the compliance of the Department, and the village in its
entirety with the provisions of HIPAA as contained within the privacy rule on
or before April 14, 2003. In accordance with the foregoing federal mandate, the
village adopts the Village HIPAA Privacy Rule Compliance Policy, as set forth
in the materials codified at and incorporated into this chapter as Appendix A
to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.40) (Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition, any person who is adjudicated in such an action to have
violated this subchapter shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750.
A separate violation of this subchapter shall be deemed to have been committed
for each day on which a violation is committed and for each day thereafter
during which the violation continues to exist.
(Prior Code, § 32.31) (Ord. 2601-98, passed 8-19-1998)
APPENDIX A: HIPAA PRIVACY RULE COMPLIANCE POLICY
Section
   
1.   Purpose
   
2.   Definitions
   
3.   General statement of policy
   
4.   Business associates
   
5.   Patient privacy rights
   
6.   Patient access request for access procedures
   
7.   Storage of PHI
   
8.   Procedure for amending PHI
   
9.   Procedures for deidentification of PHI
   
10.   Procedure for disposal of PHI
   
11.   Administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect PHI
   
12.   Enforcement, sanctions and penalties for violations
   
13.   Complaint procedure
   
14.   Internal administration
§ 1. PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this policy is to provide procedures and protocols that must
be followed by the village regarding uses and disclosures of protected health
information as defined and regulated by the HIPAA Privacy Rule, 45 C.F.R. pts.
160 and 164.
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 2. DEFINITIONS.
Any terms used but not defined in any section of this Policy shall, as
applicable and as may be required by the context in which they are used, have
the meanings ascribed thereto in the HIPAA Privacy Rule, 45 C.F.R. pts. 160 and
164. Any term defined in any section of this Policy shall have the same meaning
when used in other sections of this Policy.
“AUTHORIZED USER.” An individual that is granted access to PHI for patients
through an authorization, IRB waiver or who is performing an activity related
to health care operations.
“DEFECTIVE CONSENTS.” Lacking an element required in the consent or becoming
defective if the consent has been revoked.
“DEPARTMENT.” The Fire Department of the Village of Romeoville, as set forth in
Chapter 32 of the village Code of Ordinances.
“DESIGNATED RECORD SET.” A group of records maintained by or for the department
and the village that are:
   (1)   The medical records and billing records about patients maintained by
or for the department and the village;
   (2)   The enrollment, payments, claims adjudication, and case or medical
management record systems maintained by or for a health plan; or
   (3)   Used, in whole or in part, by or for the department and the village to
make decisions about patients.
“DISCLOSURE.” The release, transfer, provision of access to, or divulging in
any other manner of information outside the entity holding the information.
“HEALTH CARE OPERATIONS.”
   (1)   Activities related to the department or village’s functions as a
health care provider, including general administrative and business functions
necessary for the department or the village to remain a viable health care
provider.
   (2)   Any one of the following activities to the extent the activities are
related to providing health care:
      (a)   Conducting quality assessment and improvement activities,
population-based activities relating to improving health or reducing health
care costs, protocol development, case management and care coordination,
contacting patients with information about treatment alternatives, and related
functions that do not involve treatment;
      (b)   Reviewing the competence or qualifications of health care
professionals, evaluating practitioner and provider performance, health plan
performance, conducting training programs in which volunteers, trainees, or
practitioners in areas of health care learn under supervision to practice or
improve their skills as health care providers, training of non-health care
professionals, accreditation, certification, licensing, or credentialing
activities;
      (c)   Underwriting, premium rating, and other activities relating to the
creation, renewal or replacement of a contract of health insurance or health
benefits, and ceding, securing or placing a contract for reinsurance of risk
relating to claims for health care;
      (d)   Conducting or arranging for medical review, legal services, and
auditing functions, including fraud and abuse detection and compliance
programs;
      (e)   Business planning and development, such as conducting cost
management and planning related analyses related to managing and operating the
practice, including formulary development and administration, development or
improvement of methods of payment or covered policies; and
      (f)   Business management and general administrative activities:
         1.   Management activities related to HIPAA compliance;
         2.   Customer service;
         3.   Resolution of internal grievances;
         4.   Due diligence;
         5.   Activities designed to de-identify health information; and
         6.   Fundraising activities for the benefit of the practice.
“HEALTH INFORMATION.” Any information, whether oral or recorded in any form, or
medium that is received by the village that relates to the past, present or
future physical or mental health or condition of an individual, the provision
of health care to an individual or the past, present or future payment for the
provision of health care to an individual.
“INDIRECT TREATMENT RELATIONSHIP.” A relationship between an individual and a
health care provider in which:
   (1)   The health care provider delivers health care to the individual based
on the orders of another health care provider; and
   (2)   The health care provider typically provides services or products, or
reports the diagnosis or results associated with the health care, directly to
another health care provider, who provides the services, products or reports to
the individual.
“INDIVIDUALLY IDENTIFIABLE HEALTH INFORMATION/PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION
(“PHI”).” Health information that includes demographic information collected
from an individual, that is received by the village or the department that
identifies an individual or with respect to which there is a reasonable basis
to believe the information can be used to identify an individual.
“INSTITUTIONAL REVIEW BOARD (IRB).” A committee group comprised of department
or village personnel and community representatives with varying backgrounds and
professional experience that review and approve the research protocol involving
human subjects.
“PAYMENT.” Any activities undertaken either by a health plan or by a health
care provider to obtain premiums, determine or fulfill its responsibility for
coverage and the provision of benefits or to obtain or provide reimbursement
for the provision of health care. These activities include but are not limited
to:
   (1)   Determining eligibility, and adjudication or subrogation of health
benefit claims;
   (2)   Risk adjusting amounts due based on enrollee health status and
demographic characteristics;
   (3)   Billing, claims management, collection activities, obtaining payment
under a contract for reinsurance, and related health care processing;
   (4)   Review of healthcare services with respect to medical necessity,
coverage under a health plan, appropriateness of care, or justification of
charges;
   (5)   Utilization review activities, including pre-certification and
preauthorization services, concurrent and retrospective review of services; or
   (6)   Disclosure to consumer reporting agencies of certain PHI relating to
collection of premiums or reimbursement.
“TREATMENT.” The provision, coordination, or management of health care related
services by one or more health care providers, including the coordination or
management of health care by a health care provider with a third party;
consultation between health care providers relating to a patient; or for the
referral of a patient for health care from one health care provider to another.
“USE, WITH RESPECT TO INDIVIDUALLY IDENTIFIABLE HEALTH INFORMATION.” The
sharing, employment, application, utilization, examination, or analysis of such
information within an entity that maintains such information.
“VILLAGE.” The Village of Romeoville, its Fire Department, and all other
departments of the village.
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 3. GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the department, the village and all other
village departments to restrict the use of PHI to the maximum extent possible,
and to use or disclose PHI to the minimum extent necessary (“minimum
necessary”). When using or disclosing PHI or when requesting PHI from another
health care provider or health organization, the department and any and all
other village employees or personnel must limit such use, disclosure or
requests relating to PHI to the minimum necessary to accomplish the intended
purpose of the use, disclosure or request. Minimum necessary does not apply in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Disclosures by a health care provider for treatment (volunteers,
staff and trainees are included as health care providers for this purpose);
      (2)   Uses and disclosures based upon a valid consent to use and disclose
PHI for treatment, payment and health care operations or a valid authorization
to use and disclose PHI;
      (3)   Disclosures made to the Secretary of the Department of Health and
Human Services;
      (4)   Uses and disclosures required by law;
      (5)   Uses and disclosures made to an individual with respect to his or
her own PHI; and
      (6)   Uses and disclosures required by other sections of the HIPAA
privacy regulations or for compliance with the HIPAA Transaction Rule.
   (B)   When this policy permits use or disclosure of an individual’s
information to another entity, or when the department or the village requests
an individual’s information from another entity, the department or the village
staff and workforce members must make reasonable efforts to limit the amount of
information to the minimum necessary needed to accomplish the intended purpose
of the use, disclosure, or request.
   (C)   If the department or the village policy permits making a particular
disclosure to another entity, the department or the village staff and workforce
may rely on a requested disclosure as being the minimum necessary for the
stated purpose when:
      (1)   Making disclosures to public officials that are permitted under 45
C.F.R. § 164.512 if the public official represents the information requested is
the minimum necessary for the stated purpose(s).
      (2)   A “public official” is any employee or workforce member of a
government agency who is authorized to act on behalf of that agency in
performing the lawful duties and responsibilities of that agency.
      (3)   The information is requested by another entity that is a “covered
entity” under the HIPAA privacy rules. A “covered entity” is a health plan, a
health care provider who conducts electronic transactions, or a health care
clearinghouse;
      (4)   The information is requested by a professional who is a member of
the workforce of a “covered entity” or is a business associate of the “covered
entity” for the purpose of providing professional services to the “covered
entity,” if the professional represents that the information requested is the
minimum necessary for the stated purpose(s); or
      (5)   Documentation or representations that comply with the applicable
requirements of uses and disclosures for research purposes have been provided
by a person requesting the information for research purposes.
   (D)   Access and uses of information. The department or the village will
establish role-based categories that identify types of information necessary
for staff and workforce members to perform their jobs. The department or the
village will identify the category of information needed for persons, or
classes of persons, in their respective workforces to carry out their duties,
and will further identify any conditions appropriate to such access. Categories
will include all information, such as information accessible by computer, kept
in files, or other forms of information consistent with administrative,
technical and physical safeguards.
   (E)   Routine and recurring disclosure of an individual’s information. For
the purposes of this policy, “routine and recurring” means the disclosure of
records outside the department or the village, without the authorization of the
individual, for a purpose that is compatible with the purpose for which the
information was collected. The following identifies several examples of uses
and disclosures that the department or the village has determined to be
compatible with the purposes for which information is collected:
      (1)   Routine and recurring uses include disclosures required by law. For
example, a mandatory child abuse report by the department or the village
employee would be a routine use.
      (2)   If the department or the village deems it desirable or necessary,
the department or the village may disclose information as a routine and
recurring use to the State Department of Justice for the purpose of obtaining
its advice and legal services.
      (3)   When federal or state agencies, such as the DHHS Office of Civil
Rights, the DHHS Office of Inspector General, the department or the State
Medicaid Fraud Unit, or the department or the Secretary of State, have the
legal authority to require the department or the village to produce records
necessary to carry out audit or oversight of the department or the village
activities, the department or the village will make such records available as a
routine and recurring use.
      (4)   When the department or the village determines that records are
subject to disclosure under the department or the village’s state laws, the
department or the village may make the disclosure as a routine and recurring
use.
      (5)   The department or the village will not disclose an individual’s
entire medical record unless the record specifically justifies why the entire
medical record is needed.
   (F)   Non-routine disclosure of an individual’s information.
      (1)   For the purpose of this policy, “non-routine disclosure” means the
disclosure of records outside the department or the village that is not for a
purpose for which it was collected.
      (2)   The department or the village will not disclose an individual’s
entire medical record unless the request specifically justifies why the entire
medical record is needed, and applicable laws and policies permit the
disclosure of all the information in the medical record to the requestor.
      (3)   Requests for non-routine disclosures must be reviewed on an
individual basis in accordance with the criteria set forth in this policy.
      (4)   For non-routine disclosures, the department or the village will:
         (a)   Implement procedures to limit the information disclosed to only
the minimum amount of information necessary to accomplish the purpose for which
the disclosure is sought;
         (b)   Review requests for non-routine disclosures on an individual
basis in accordance with such procedures.
   (G)   The department or the village’s request for an individual’s
information from another health care provider or entity.
      (1)   When requesting information about an individual from another health
care provider or entity, the department or the village staff and workforce
members must limit requests to those that are reasonably necessary to
accomplish the purpose for which the request is made.
      (2)   The department or the village will not request an individual’s
entire medical record unless the department or the village can specifically
justify why the entire medical record is needed.
   (H)   Disclosures of an individual’s information on a routine or recurring
basis. For routine and recurring disclosures, the department or the village
will:
      (1)   Determine who is requesting the information and the purpose for the
request. If the request is not compatible with the purpose for which it was
collected, refer to and apply the “non-routine use” policies;
      (2)   Confirm that the applicable department or the village policies
permit the requested use and/or disclosure;
      (3)   Identify the kind and amount of information that is necessary to
respond to the request; and
      (4)   If the disclosure is one that must be included in the department or
the village accounting of disclosures, include required documentation in an
accounting log.
   (I)   Disclosures of an individual’s information on a non-routine basis. For
non-routine disclosures, the department or the village will:
      (1)   Determine who is requesting the information and the purpose for the
request. If the request is compatible with the purpose for which it was
collected, apply the “routine and recurring use” policies from division (H) of
this section;
      (2)   Determine which information of the individual is within the scope
of the request, and what department or village policies apply to the requested
use;
      (3)   If the information requested can be disclosed under the applicable
policies, limit the amount of information to the minimum amount necessary to
respond to the request; and
      (4)   Document the disclosure in an accounting log.
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 4. BUSINESS ASSOCIATES.
   It shall be the policy of the department and the village to require all
business associates of the department or the village to follow the protocols
and procedures set forth herein as the same may be applicable to the
relationships between the village, the department and the business associates.
   (A)   Business associate policy.
      (1)   A business associate is a person or entity who provides certain
functions, activities, or services for or to the department or the village,
involving the use and/or disclosure of PHI.
      (2)   A business associate is not a department or village employee.
      (3)   The department or the village is not liable for privacy violations
of its business associates and is not required to actively monitor or oversee
the means by which its business associates carry out safeguards, or the extent
to which the business associates abide by the requirements of the contract.
However, the department or the village is required to act if either becomes
aware of a practice or pattern that constitutes a material breach of this
policy.
   (B)   Business associate contracts and procedures. All personnel must
strictly observe the following standard relating to business associates.
      (1)   The department or the village must enter into contracts with
business associates that contain specific language.
      (2)   The contract must include language that provides that the business
associate will:
         (a)   Not use or further disclose the information other than as
permitted or required by the contract or as required by law;
         (b)   Use appropriate safeguards to prevent use or disclosure of the
information other than as provided for by its contract;
         (c)   Report to the department or the village any use or disclosure of
the information not provided for by its contract of which it becomes aware;
         (d)   Ensure that any agents, including any subcontractors, to whom it
provides PHI received from, or created by, or on behalf of the department or
the village, agree to the same restrictions and conditions that apply to the
business associate with respect to such information;
         (e)   Make available PHI in accordance with the department or the
village policy on patient access to PHI as set forth herein;
         (f)   Make available PHI for amendment and incorporate any amendments
to PHI in accordance with the department or the village policy on patient’s
right to amend or correct PHI;
         (g)   Make available the information required to provide an accounting
of disclosures in accordance with the department or the village policy on
accounting of PHI disclosures;
         (h)   Make its internal practices, books, and records relating to the
use and disclosure of PHI received from, or created by or on behalf of the
department or the village, available to the Department of Health and Human
Services (“DHHS”) for purposes of determining the department or the village’s
compliance; and
         (i)   At termination of the contract, if feasible, return or destroy
all PHI received from, or created by or on behalf of, the department or the
village that the business associate still maintains in any form and retain no
copies of such information. If such return or destruction is not feasible,
extend the protections of the contract to the information and limit further
uses and disclosures to those purposes that make the return or destruction of
the information infeasible.
      (3)   In the event the department or the village becomes aware of a
pattern or practice of the business associate that constitutes a material
breach or violation of the business associate’s obligations under its contract,
the department or the village must take reasonable steps to cure the breach or
to end the violation, as applicable.
      (4)   In the event that the business associate cannot or will not remedy
the practice or pattern, the department or the village must terminate the
contract if feasible. Where termination is not feasible, contact the department
or the village privacy official for reporting to DHHS, as required.
   (C)   Enforcement. All supervisors are responsible for enforcing this
policy. Individuals who violate this policy will be subject to the employee
disciplinary process set forth in the Village Code, and, if applicable, in any
relevant collective bargaining agreement.
   (D)   Sample contract. The standard form of business associate agreement is
set forth below.
 
BUSINESS ASSOCIATE AGREEMENT
FOR VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE FIRE
DEPARTMENT/VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE
 
This Agreement is entered into by and between Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville and (“Business Associate”) to set forth the terms and
conditions under which “protected health information”, as defined by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.,
“HIPAA”) and Regulations enacted thereunder, created or received by (“Business Associate”) on behalf of Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville
may by used or disclosed.
 
This Agreement shall commence on (Date) and the obligations herein shall continue in effect so long as (“Business Associate”) uses, discloses, creates or otherwise
possesses any protected health information created or received on behalf of Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville and until all protected health
information created or received by (“Business Associate”) on behalf of Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville is destroyed or returned to Village
of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville pursuant to Paragraph 15 herein.
 
1.)   Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville and (“Business Associate”) hereby agree that (“Business Associate”) shall be permitted to use and/or
disclose protected health information created or received on behalf of Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville for the following purpose(s):
 
   a.   The preparation of invoices to patients, carriers, insurers and others responsible for payment or reimbursement of the services provided by Village of
Romeoville Fire Department to its patients;
 
   b.   Preparation of reminder notices and documents pertaining to collections of overdue accounts;
 
   c.   The submission of supporting documentation to carriers, insurers and other payers to substantiate the health care services provided by Village of Romeoville
Fire Department to its patients or to appeal denials of payment for same.
 
   d.   Uses required for the proper management of the (“Business Associate”) as a business associate.
 
   e.   The review and use of PHI and other information by any counsel representing the Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville in reviewing HIPAA
compliance or in other similar or comparable regulatory circumstances.
 
   f.   Other uses or disclosures of PHI as permitted by HIPAA privacy rule.
 
2.)   (“Business Associate”) may use and disclose protected health information created or received by (“Business Associate”) on behalf of Village of Romeoville Fire
Department/Village of Romeoville if necessary for the proper management and administration of (“Business Associate”) or to carry out (“Business Associate”)’s legal
responsibilities, provided that any disclosure is:
 
   a)   Required by law, or
 
   b)   (“Business Associate”) obtains reasonable assurances from the person to whom the protected health information is disclosed that (i) the protected health
information will be held confidentially and used or further disclosed only as required by law or for the purpose for which it was disclosed to the person; and (ii)
the (“Business Associate”) will be notified of any instances of which the person is aware in which the confidentiality of the information is breached.
 
3.)   (“Business Associate”) hereby agrees to maintain the security and privacy of all protected health information in a manner consistent with state and federal laws
and regulations, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and Regulations thereunder, and all other applicable law.
 
4.)   (“Business Associate”) further agrees not to use or disclose protected health information except as expressly permitted by this Agreement, applicable law, or
for the purpose of managing (“Business Associate”)’s own internal business processes consistent with Paragraph 2 herein.
 
5.)   (“Business Associate”) shall not disclose protected health information to any member of its workforce unless (“Business Associate”) has advised such person of
(“Business Associate”)’s privacy and security obligations under this Agreement, including the consequences for violation of such obligations. (“Business Associate”)
shall take appropriate disciplinary action against any member of its workforce who uses or discloses protected health information in violations of this Agreement and
applicable law.
 
6.)   (“Business Associate”) shall not disclose protected health information created or received by (“Business Associate”) on behalf of Village of Romeoville Fire
Department/Village of Romeoville to a person, including any agent or subcontractor of (“Business Associate”) but not including a member of (“Business Associate”)’s
own workforce, until such person agrees in writing to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and applicable Illinois or Federal law.
7.)   (“Business Associate”) agrees to use appropriate safeguards to prevent use or disclosure of protected health information not permitted by this Agreement or
applicable law.
 
8.)   (“Business Associate”) agrees to maintain a record of all disclosures of protected health information, including disclosures not made for the purposes of this
Agreement. Such record shall include the date of the disclosure, the name and, if known, the address of the recipient of the protected health information, the name of
the individual who is the subject of the protected health information, a brief description of the protected health information disclosed, and the purpose of the
disclosure. (“Business Associate”) shall make such record available to an individual who is the subject of such information or Village of Romeoville Fire Department/
Village of Romeoville within five (5) days of a request and shall include disclosures made on or after the date which is six (6) years prior to the request or April
14, 2003, whichever is later.
 
9.)   (“Business Associate”) agrees to report to Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville any unauthorized use or disclosure of protected health
information by (“Business Associate”) or its workforce or subcontractors and the remedial action taken or proposed to be taken with respect to such use or disclosure.
 
10.)   (“Business Associate”) agrees to make its internal practices, books, and records relating to the use and disclosure of protected health information received
from Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville, or created or received by (“Business Associate”) on behalf of Village of Romeoville Fire Department/
Village of Romeoville, available to the Secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, for purposes of determining the Covered Entity’s
compliance with HIPAA.
 
11.)   Within thirty (30) days of a written request by Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville, (“Business Associate”) shall allow a person who is
the subject of protected health information, such person’s legal representative, or Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville to have access to and
to copy such person’s protected health information maintained by (“Business Associate”). (“Business Associate”) shall provide protected health information in the
format requested by such person, legal representative, or practitioner unless it is not readily producible in such format, in which case it shall be produced in
standard hard copy format.
 
12.)   (“Business Associate”) agrees to amend, pursuant to a request by Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville, protected health information
maintained and created or received by (“Business Associate”) on behalf of Practitioner. (“Business Associate”) further agrees to complete such amendment within thirty
(30) days of a written request by Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville, and to make such amendment as directed by Village of Romeoville Fire
Department/Village of Romeoville.
 
13.)   In the event (“Business Associate”) fails to perform the obligations under this Agreement, Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville may, at
its option:
 
   a)   Require (“Business Associate”) to submit to a plan of compliance, including monitoring by Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville and
reporting by (“Business Associate”), as Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville, in its sole discretion, determines necessary to maintain
compliance with this Agreement and applicable law. Such plan shall be incorporated into this Agreement by amendment hereto; and
 
   b)   Require (“Business Associate”) to mitigate any loss occasioned by the unauthorized disclosure or use of protected health information.
 
   c)   Immediately discontinue providing protected health information to (“Business Associate”) with or without written notice to (“Business Associate”).
 
14.)   Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville may immediately terminate this Agreement and related agreements if Village of Romeoville Fire
Department/Village of Romeoville determines that the (“Business Associate”) has breached a material term of this Agreement. Alternatively, Village of Romeoville Fire
Department/Village of Romeoville may choose to: (i) provide (“Business Associate”) with ten (10) days written notice of the existence of an alleged material breach;
and (ii) afford the (“Business Associate”) an opportunity to cure said alleged material breach to the satisfaction of Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of
Romeoville within ten (10) days. The (“Business Associate”)’s failure to cure shall be grounds for immediate determination of this Agreement. Village of Romeoville
Fire Department/Village of Romeoville’s remedies under this Agreement are cumulative, and the exercise of any remedy shall not preclude the exercise of any other.
 
15.)   Upon termination of this Agreement, (“Business Associate”) shall return or destroy all protected health information received from Village of Romeoville Fire
Department/Village of Romeoville, or created or received by (“Business Associate”) on behalf of Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville and that
(“Business Associate”) maintains in any form, and shall retain no copies of such information. If the parties mutually agree that return or destruction of protected
health information is not feasible, (“Business Associate”) shall continue to maintain the security and privacy of such protected health information in a manner
consistent with the obligations of this Agreement and as required by applicable law, and shall limit further use of the information to those purposes that make the
return or destruction of the information infeasible. The duties hereunder to maintain the security and privacy of protected health information shall survive the
discontinuance of this Agreement.
16.)   Village of Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville may amend this Agreement by providing ten (10) days prior written notice to (“Business Associate”)
in order to maintain compliance with Illinois or Federal law. Such amendment shall be binding upon (“Business Associate”) at the end of the ten (10) day period and
shall not require the consent of (“Business Associate”). (“Business Associate”) may elect to discontinue the Agreement within the ten (10) day period, but (“Business
Associate”)’s duties hereunder to maintain the security and privacy of PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION shall survive such discontinuance. Village of Romeoville Fire
Department/Village of Romeoville and (“Business Associate”) may otherwise amend this Agreement by mutual written agreement.
 
17.)   (“Business Associate”) shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, protect, defend, indemnify and hold harmless Village of Romeoville Fire Department/
Village of Romeoville and its respective employees, directors, and agents (“Indemnitees”) from and against any and all losses, costs, claims, penalties, fines,
demands, liabilities, legal actions, judgments, and expenses of every kind (including reasonable attorneys fees, including at trial and on appeal) asserted or imposed
against any Indemnitees arising out of the acts or omissions of (“Business Associate”) or any subcontractor of or consultant of (“Business Associate”) or any of
(“Business Associate’s”) employees, directors, or agents related to the performance or nonperformance of this Agreement.
 
 
                                                                                   
Village of Romeoville Fire Department/
Village of Romeoville
 
Date
 
 
                                                                        
(“Business Associate”)
 
Date
 
 
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 5. PATIENT PRIVACY RIGHTS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The department or the village’s patients have the right to, and the
department or the village may not deny, the following:
         (a)   Access to their own information, consistent with certain
limitations;
         (b)   Receive an accounting of disclosures the department or the
village has made of their protected health information (PHI) for up to six
years prior to the date of requesting such accounting. Information may not be
available prior to the effective date of this policy (April 14, 2003) and
certain limitations do apply as outlined in § 12 of this policy; and
         (c)   Submit complaints if they believe or suspect that information
about them has been improperly used or disclosed, or if they have concerns
about the privacy policies of the department or the village.
      (2)   Patients may ask the department or the village to take specific
actions regarding the use and disclosure of their information and the
department or the village may either approve or deny the request. Specifically,
patients have the right to request:
         (a)   That the department or the village restrict uses and disclosures
of their individual information while carrying out treatment, payment
activities, or health care operations;
         (b)   To receive information from the department or the village by
alternative means, such as mail, e-mail, fax or telephone, or at alternative
locations; and
         (c)   That the department or the village amend their information that
is held by the department or the village.
   (B)   Relationship to notice of privacy practices.
      (1)   The department or the village will use the “Notice of Privacy
Practices” included within this section to inform patients about how the
department or the village may use and/or disclose their information. The
“Notice of Privacy Practices” also describes the actions a patient may take, or
request the department or the village to take, with regard to the use and/or
disclosure of their information.
      (2)   Nothing in this policy shall prevent the department or the village
from changing its policies or the “Notice of Privacy Practices” at any time,
provided that the changes in the policies or the “Notice of Privacy Practices”
comply with state or federal law.
   (C)   Decision-making authority within the department or the village.
      (1)   Prior to any decision, based on a patient’s request for the
department or the village to amend a health or medical record, the department
or the village shall review the request and any related documentation.
      (2)   Prior to any decision to amend any other information that is not a
health or medical record, the department or the village shall review the
request and any related documentation.
      (3)   The department or the village may deny a patient access to his or
her own health information on the grounds that access may result in risk or
harm to the patient or to another person. However, prior to any decision to
deny such access, the department or the village shall review the request and
any related documentation.
      (4)   Decisions related to any other requests made to the department or
the village under this policy shall be handled in a manner consistent with
federal and state rules and regulations and/or department or village policies
and procedures applicable to the treatment, program, service or activity.
   (D)   Rights of patients to request privacy protection of their information.
      (1)   Patients have the right to request restrictions on the use and/or
disclosure of their information.
      (2)   The department or the village applies confidentiality laws to
protect the privacy of patient information. Even if those laws would permit the
department or the village to make a use or disclosure of information, a patient
has the right to request a restriction on a use or disclosure of that
information.
      (3)   All requests will be submitted by completing a “Restriction of Use
and Disclosures Request Form” included within this section.
      (4)   The department or the village is not obligated to agree to a
restriction and may deny the request or may agree to a restriction more limited
than what the patient requested.
      (5)   Exception: certain programs can only use information that is
authorized by the patient, such as alcohol and drug programs or vocational
rehabilitation participants. For those program participants, the department or
the village will honor their requests for restriction by making sure that the
authorization clearly identifies the authorized recipients of the information.
   (E)   Rights of patients to request to receive information by alternative
means or at alternative locations.
      (1)   The department or the village must accommodate reasonable requests
by patients to receive communications by alternative means, such as by mail, e-
mail, fax or telephone; and the department or the village must accommodate
reasonable requests by patients to receive communications at an alternative
location.
      (2)   In some cases, sensitive health information or health services must
be handled with strict confidentiality under state law. For example,
information about substance abuse treatment, mental health treatment, and
certain sexually transmitted diseases, may be subject to specific handling. The
department or the village will comply with the more restrictive requirements.
   (F)   Rights of patients to access their information.
      (1)   Patients have the right to access, inspect, and obtain a copy of
information on their own cases in the department or the village files or
records, consistent with federal and state law.
      (2)   All requests for access will be made having the patient complete an
“Access to Records Request Form” included within this section.
      (3)   Patients may request access to their own information that is kept
by the department or the village by using a personal identifier (such as the
patient’s name or the department or the village case number).
      (4)   If the department or the village maintains information about the
patient in a record that includes information about other people, the patient
is only authorized to see information about him or herself, with the following
exceptions:
         (a)   If a person identified in the file is a minor child of the
patient, and the patient is authorized under state law to have access to the
minor’s information or to act on behalf of the minor for making decisions about
the minor’s care, the patient may also obtain information about the minor.
         (b)   If the person requesting information is recognized under state
law as a guardian or legal custodian of the patient and is authorized by state
law to have access to the patient’s information or to act on behalf of the
patient for making decisions about the patient’s services or care, the
department or the village will release information to the requestor.
         (c)   Any other exceptions or restrictions as may be required under
state law.
      (5)   The department or the village may deny patients’ access to their
own health information if federal law prohibits the disclosure. Under federal
law, patients have the right to access, inspect, and obtain a copy of health
information on their own cases in the department or the village files or
records except for:
         (a)   Psychotherapy notes;
         (b)   Information compiled for use in civil, criminal, or
administrative proceedings;
         (c)   Information that is subject to the Federal Clinical Labs
Improvement Amendments of 1988, or exempt pursuant to 42 C.F.R. § 493.3(a)(2);
         (d)   Information that, in good faith, the department or the village
believes can cause harm to the patient, participant or to any other person;
         (e)   Documents protected by attorney work-product privilege; and
         (f)   Information where release is prohibited by state or federal
laws.
      (6)   Before the department or the village denies a patient access to
their information because there is a good faith belief that its disclosure
could cause harm to the patient or to another person, the department or the
village must make a review of this denial available to the patient. If the
patient wishes to have this denial reviewed, the review must be done by a
licensed health care professional other than the department or the village as
selected by the department or the village.
   (G)   Rights of patients to request amendments to their information.
      (1)   Patients have the right to request that the department or the
village amend their information in the department or the village’s files.
      (2)   All requests for amendments will be made by having the patient
complete an “Amendment of Health Record Request Form” included within this
section.
      (3)   The department or the village is not obligated to agree to an
amendment and may deny the requests or limit its agreement to amend.
   (H)   Rights of patients to an accounting of disclosures of protected health
information.
      (1)   Patients have the right to receive an accounting of disclosures of
protected health information (PHI) that the department or the village has made
for any period of time, not to exceed six years, preceding the date of
requesting the accounting.
      (2)   The accounting will only include health information not previously
authorized by the patient for use or disclosure, and will not include
information collected, used or disclosed for treatment, payment or health care
operations for that patient.
      (3)   All requests for an accounting of disclosures will be made by
having the patient complete an “Accounting of Disclosures of Protected Health
information Form” included within this section.
      (4)   This right does not apply to disclosures made prior to the
effective date of this policy, which is April 14, 2003.
   (I)   Rights of patients to file complaints regarding disclosure of
information.
      (1)   Patients have a right to submit a complaint if they believe that
the department or the village has improperly used or disclosed their protected
information, or if they have concerns about the privacy policies of the
department or the village or concerns about the department or the village’s
compliance with such policies.
      (2)   Complaints may be filed with any of the following:
         (a)   The Department of Human Services in the State of Illinois or the
department or the village.
         (b)   The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office for
Civil Rights.
   (J)   Requesting restrictions of uses and disclosures.
      (1)   Patients may request, in writing, and in such form prescribed from
time to time by the department or the village, that the department or the
village restrict use and/or disclosure of their information for:
         (a)   Carrying out treatment, payment, or health care operations;
         (b)   Disclosure of health information to a relative or other person
who is involved in the patient’s care.
      (2)   The department or the village is not required to agree to a
restriction requested by the patient.
      (3)   The department or the village will not agree to restrict uses or
disclosures of information if the restriction would adversely affect the
quality of the patient’s care or services.
      (4)   The department or the village cannot agree to a restriction that
would limit or prevent the department or the village from making or obtaining
payment for services.
      (5)   Emergency treatment should be provided even with an agreed upon
restriction with exceptions as noted below.
      Exception: For alcohol and drug or vocational rehabilitation
participants, federal regulations (42 C.F.R. pt. 2 and 34 C.F.R.) prohibit the
department or the village from denying patient requests for restrictions on
uses and disclosures of their information regarding treatment or
rehabilitation.
      (6)   The department or the village will document the patient’s request,
and the reasons for granting or denying the request in the patient’s hard copy
or electronic case record file.
      (7)   Prior to any use of disclosure of patient information, the
department or the village staff must confirm that such use or disclosure has
not been granted a restriction by reviewing the patient’s case file. If the
department or the village agrees to a patient’s request for restriction, the
department or the village will not use or disclose information that violates
the restriction.
      Exception: If the patient needs emergency treatment and the restricted
information is needed to provide emergency treatment, the department or the
village may use or disclose such information to the extent needed to provide
the emergency treatment. However, once the emergency situation subsides the
department or the village must not redisclose the information.
      (8)   The department or the village may terminate its agreement to a
restriction if:
         (a)   The patient agrees to or requests termination of the restriction
in writing;
         (b)   The patient orally agrees to, or requests termination of the
restriction. The department or the village will document the oral agreement or
request in the patient’s case record file; or
         (c)   The department or the village informs the patient in writing
that the department or the village is terminating its agreement to the
restriction. Information created or received while the restriction was in
effect shall remain subject to the restriction.
   (K)   Requesting alternative means or locations.
      (1)   The patient must specify the preferred alternative means or
location.
      (2)   Requests for alternative means or alternative locations for
information may be made orally or in writing.
      (3)   If a patient makes a request orally, the department or the village
will document the request and ask for the patient’s signature.
      (4)   If a patient makes a request by telephone or electronically, the
department or the village will document the request and verify the identity of
the requestor.
      (5)   Prior to any information being sent to the patient, the department
or the village staff must confirm if the patient has requested an alternate
location or by alternate means, and if the department or the village has
granted that request, by reviewing the patient’s case file.
      (6)   The department or the village may terminate its agreement to an
alternative location or method of communication if:
         (a)   The patient agrees to or requests termination of the alternative
location or method of communication in writing or orally. The department or the
village will document the oral agreement or request in the patient’s department
or the village case record file.
         (b)   The department or the village informs the patient that the
department or the village is terminating its agreement to the alternative
location or method of communication because the alternative location or method
of communication is not effective. The department or the village may terminate
its agreement to communicate at the alternate location or by the alternative
means if:
            1.   The department or the village is unable to contact the patient
at the location or in the manner requested; or
            2.   If the patient fails to respond to payment requests if
applicable.
   (L)   Requesting access to information.
      (1)   The department or the village will assure that patients may access
their information that the department or the village uses in whole or part to
make decisions about them, subject to certain limitations as outlined in § 6 of
this policy.
      (2)   Patients may request to access, inspect and obtain information
about themselves, subject to limitations as outlined in this policy.
      (3)   All requests for access will be made by having the patient complete
an “Access to Records Request Form” included within this section.
      (4)   The department or the village may deny a patient access to their
information if:
         (a)   It is excepted under § 6 of this policy; or
         (b)   Was obtained from someone other than a health care provider
under a promise of confidentiality, and access would reveal the source of the
information.
      (5)   The department or the village may deny a patient access to their
information, provided that the department or the village gives the patient a
right to have the denial reviewed, in the following circumstances:
         (a)   The department or the village has determined, in the exercise of
professional judgment, that the information requested may endanger the life or
physical safety of the patient or another person;
         (b)   The protected information makes reference to another person, and
the department or the village has determined, in the exercise of professional
judgment, that the information requested may cause substantial harm to the
patient or another person; or
         (c)   The request for access is made by the patient’s personal
representative, the department or the village has determined, in the exercise
of professional judgment, that allowing the personal representative to access
the information may cause substantial harm to the patient or to another person.
      (6)   If the department or the village denies access, the patient has the
right to have the decision reviewed by a licensed health care professional not
directly involved in the department or the village’s original denial decision.
The department or the village will then proceed based on the decision from this
review.
      (7)   The department or the village must promptly refer a request for
review to the designated reviewer.
      (8)   The reviewer must determine, within a reasonable time, whether or
not to approve or deny the patient’s request for access, in accordance with
this policy.
      (9)   The department or the village must then:
         (a)   Promptly notify the patient in writing of the reviewer’s
determination; and
         (b)   Take action to carry out the reviewer’s determination.
      (10)   The department or the village must act on a patient’s request for
access no later than 30 days after receiving the request.
      (11)   In cases where the information is not maintained or accessible to
the department or the village on-site, the department or the village must act
on the patient’s request no later than 60 days after receiving the request.
      (12)   If the department or the village is unable to act within these 30-
day or 60-day limits, the department or the village may extend this limitation
by up to an additional 30 days, subject to the following:
         (a)   The department or the village must notify the patient in writing
of the reasons for the delay and the date by which the department or the
village will act on the request.
         (b)   The department or the village will use only one such 30-day
extension to act on a request for access.
      (13)   If the department or the village grants the patient’s request, in
whole or in part, the department or the village must inform the patient of the
access decision and provide the requested access.
      (14)   If the department or the village maintains the same information in
more than one format (such as electronically and in a hard-copy file) or at
more than one location, the department or the village need only provide the
requested protected information once.
      (15)   The department or the village must provide the requested
information in a form or format requested by the patient, if readily producible
in that form or format. If not readily producible, the department or the
village will provide the information in a readable hardcopy format or such
other format as agreed to by the department or the village and the patient.
      (16)   If the department or the village does not maintain, in whole or in
part, the requested information, and knows where the information is maintained,
the department or the village will inform the patient of where to request
access.
      (17)   The department or the village may provide the patient with a
summary of the requested information, in lieu of providing access, or may
provide an explanation of the information if access had been provided, if:
         (a)   The patient agrees in advance; and
         (b)   The patient agrees in advance to any fees the department or the
village may impose, and as allowed by law and/or described below.
      (18)   The department or the village must arrange with the patient for
providing the requested access in a time and place convenient for the patient
and the department or the village. This may include mailing the information to
the patient if the patient so requests or agrees.
   (M)   Fees for patient information request.
      (1)   A patient (or legal guardian or custodian) may request a copy of
their information at no cost once every 12 months. If the patient requests a
copy of the requested information, or a written summary or explanation, more
frequently than once every 12 months, then the department or the village may
impose a reasonable, cost-based fee, limited to covering the following:
         (a)   Copying the requested information, including the costs of
supplies and of the labor of copying;
         (b)   Postage, when the patient has requested or agreed to having the
information mailed; and
         (c)   Preparing an explanation or summary of the requested
information, if agreed to in advance by the patient, per § 6 of this policy.
      (2)   If the department or the village denies access, in whole or in
part, to the requested information, the department or the village must:
         (a)   Give the patient access to any other requested patient
information, after excluding the information to which access is denied;
         (b)   Provide the patient with a timely written denial. The denial
must:
            1.   Be sent or provided within the time limits specified in § 6 of
this policy;
            2.   State the basis for the denial, in plain language;
            3.   If the reason for the denial is due to danger to the patient
or another, explain the patient’s review rights as specified in § 6 of this
policy including an explanation of how the patient may exercise these rights;
and
            4.   Provide a description of how the patient may file a complaint
with the department or the village, and if the information denied is protected
health information, with the United States Department of Health and Human
Services (DHHS), Office of Civil Rights, pursuant to § 13 of this policy.
      (3)   If the department or the village does not maintain the requested
protected information, and knows where such information is maintained (such as
by a medical provider, insurer, other public agency, private business, or other
non-department or village entity), the department or the village must inform
the patient of where to direct the request for access.
   (N)   Requesting amendments of information.
      (1)   All requests for amendments will be made by having the patient
complete an “Amendment of Health Record Request Form” included within this
section.
      (2)   The department or the village will honor requests for alternative
methods of making this request if reasonable accommodations are needed.
      (3)   The department or the village must act on the patient’s request no
later than 60 days of receiving the request. If the department or the village
is unable to act on the request within 60 days, the department or the village
may extend this time limit by up to an additional 30 days, subject to the
following:
         (a)   The department or the village must notify the patient in writing
of the reasons for the delay and the date by which the department or the
village will act on the receipt; and
         (b)   The department or the village will use only one such 30-day
extension.
      (4)   If the department or the village grants the request, in whole or in
part, the department or the village must:
         (a)   Make the appropriate amendment to the protected information or
records, and document the amendment in the patient’s file or record;
         (b)   Provide timely notice to the patient that the amendment has been
accepted, pursuant to the time limitations in § 6 of this policy;
         (c)   Seek the patient’s agreement to notify other relevant persons or
entities, with whom the department or the village has shared or needs to share
the amended information, of the amendment; and
         (d)   Make reasonable efforts to inform, and to provide the amendment
within a reasonable time to:
            1.   Persons named by the patient as having received protected
information and who thus need the amendment; and
            2.   Persons, including business associates of the department or
the village, that the department or the village knows have the protected
information that is the subject of the amendment and that may have relied, or
could foreseeably rely, on the information to the patient’s detriment.
      (5)   Prior to any decision to amend a health or medical record, the
request and any related documentation shall be reviewed by the department or
the village.
      (6)   Prior to any decision to amend any other information that is not a
health or medical record, the department or the village shall review the
request and any related documentation.
      (7)   The department or the village may deny the patient’s request for
amendment if:
         (a)   The department or the village finds the information to be
accurate and complete;
         (b)   The information was not created by the department or the
village, unless the patient provides a reasonable basis to believe that the
originator of such information is no longer available to act on the requested
amendment;
         (c)   The information is not part of the department or the village
records; or
         (d)   If it would not be available for inspection or access by the
patient, as specified in § 6 of this policy.
      (8)   If the department or the village denies the requested amendment, in
whole or in part, the department or the village must:
         (a)   Provide the patient with a timely written denial. The denial
must:
            1.   Be sent or provided within the time limits as specified in
this policy above;
            2.   State the basis for the denial, in plain language;
            3.   Explain the patient’s right to submit a written statement
disagreeing with the denial and how to file such a statement. If the patient
does so:
               a.   The department or the village will enter the written
statement into the patient’s department or village case file;
               b.   The department or the village may also enter a department
or village written rebuttal of the patient’s written statement into the
patient’s department or village case record. The department or the village will
send or provide a copy of any such written rebuttal to the patient;
               c.   The department or the village will include a copy of that
statement, and of the written rebuttal by the department or the village if any,
with any future disclosures of the relevant information;
               d.   Explain that if the patient does not submit a written
statement of disagreement, the patient may ask that if the department or the
village makes any future disclosures of the relevant information, the
department or the village will also include a copy of the patient’s original
request for amendment and a copy of the department or the village written
denial; and
               e.   Provide information on how the patient may file a complaint
with the department or the village, or with the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services (DHHS), Office of Civil Rights, subject to provisions in § 13 of
this policy.
   (O)   Requesting an accounting of disclosures.
      (1)   When a patient requests an accounting of disclosures that the
department or the village has made of their protected health information, the
department or the village must provide that patient with a written accounting
of such disclosures made during the six-year period (or lesser time period if
specified by the requesting patient) preceding the date of the patient’s
request.
         (2)   All requests for an accounting of disclosures will be made by
having the patient complete an “Accounting of Disclosures Request” included
within this section.
         (3)   Examples of disclosures of protected health information (PHI)
that are required to be listed in an accounting (assuming that the disclosure
is permitted by other confidentiality laws applicable to the individual’s
information and the purpose for which it was collected or maintained) include:
            (a)   Abuse report: PHI about an individual provided by the
department or the village staff pursuant to mandatory abuse reporting laws to
an entity authorized by law to receive the abuse report.
            (b)   Audit review: PHI provided by the department or the village
staff from an individual’s record in relation to an audit or review (whether
financial or quality of care or other audit or review) of a provider or
contractor.
            (c)   Health and safety: PHI about an individual provided by the
department or the village staff to avert a serious threat to health or safety
of a person.
            (d)   Licensee/provider: PHI provided by the department or the
village from an individual’s records in relation to licensing or regulation or
certification of a provider or licensee or entity involved in the care or
services of the individual.
            (e)   Legal proceeding: PHI about an individual that is ordered to
be disclosed pursuant to a court order in a court case or other legal
proceeding. A copy of the court order must be included with the accounting.
            (f)   Law enforcement official/court order: PHI about an individual
provided to a law enforcement official pursuant to a court order. A copy of the
court order must be included with the accounting.
            (g)   Law enforcement official/deceased: PHI provided to law
enforcement officials or medical examiner about a person who has died for the
purpose of identifying the deceased person, determining cause of death, or as
otherwise authorized by law.
            (h)   Law enforcement official/warrant: PHI provided to a law
enforcement official in relation to a fleeing felon or for whom a warrant for
their arrest has been issued and the law enforcement official has made proper
request for the information, to the extent otherwise permitted by law.
            (i)   Media: PHI provided to the media (TV, newspaper, etc.) that
is not within the scope of an authorization by the individual.
            (j)   Public health official: PHI about an individual provided by
the department or the village staff (other than staff employed for public
health functions) to a public health official, such as the reporting of
disease, injury, or the conduct of a public health study or investigation.
            (k)   Public record: PHI about an individual that is disclosed
pursuant to a public record request without the individual’s authorization.
            (l)   Research: PHI about an individual provided by the department
or the village staff for purposes of research conducted without authorization,
using a waiver of authorization approved by an IRB - a copy of the research
protocol should be kept with the accounting, along with the other information
required under the HIPAA privacy rule, 45 C.F.R. § 164.528(b)(4).
         (4)   Disclosures that are not required to be tracked and accounted
for are those that are:
            (a)   Authorized by the patient;
            (b)   Made prior to the original effective date of this policy,
which is April 14, 2003;
            (c)   Made to carry out treatment, payment, and health care
operations;
            (d)   Made to the patient;
            (e)   Made to persons involved in the patient’s health care;
            (f)   Made as part of a limited data set in accordance with § 9 of
this policy;
            (g)   For national security or intelligence purposes; or
            (h)   Made to correctional institutions or law enforcement
officials having lawful custody of an inmate.
         (5)   The accounting must include, for each disclosure:
            (a)   The date of the disclosure;
            (b)   The name, and address if known, of the person or entity who
received the disclosed information;
            (c)   A brief description of the information disclosed; and
            (d)   A brief statement of the purpose of the disclosure that
reasonably informs the patient of the basis for the disclosure, or, in lieu of
such statement, a copy of the patient’s written request for a disclosure, if
any.
         (6)   If, during the time period covered by the accounting, the
department or the village has made multiple disclosures to the same person or
entity for the same purpose, or as a result of a single written authorization
by the patient, the department or the village may provide:
            (a)   Although the department or the village must provide a written
accounting for disclosures made over a six year period, only the first
disclosure made during the time period is necessary (the department or the
village need not list the same identical information for each subsequent
disclosure to the same person or entity) if the department or the village adds;
            (b)   The frequency or number of disclosures made to the same
person or entity; and
            (c)   The last date of the disclosure made during the requested
time period.
         (7)   The department or the village must act on the patient’s request
for an accounting no later than 60 days after receiving the request, subject to
the following:
            (a)   If unable to provide the accounting within 60 days after
receiving the request, the department or the village may extend this
requirement by another 30 days. The department or the village must provide the
patient with a written statement of the reasons for the delay within the
original 60-day limit, and inform the patient of the date by which the
department or the village will provide the accounting.
            (b)   The department or the village will use only one such 30-day
extension.
   (P)   Fees for patient accounting requests.
      (1)   The department or the village must provide the first requested
accounting in any 12-month period without charge. The department or the village
may charge the patient a reasonable cost-based fee for each additional
accounting requested by the patient within the 12-month period following the
first request, provided that the department or the village:
         (a)   Informs the patient of the fee before proceeding with any such
additional request; and
         (b)   Allows the patient an opportunity to withdraw or modify the
request in order to avoid or reduce the fee.
      (2)   The department or the village must document, and retain in the
patient’s department or village case record file, the information required to
be included in an accounting of disclosures, as set forth in this policy, and
send a copy of the written accounting provided to the patient.
      (3)   The department or the village will temporarily suspend a patient’s
right to receive an accounting of disclosures that the department or the
village has made to a health oversight agency or to a law enforcement official,
for a length of time specified by such agency or official, if:
         (a)   The agency or official provides a written statement to the
department or the village that such an accounting would be reasonably likely to
impede their activities.
         (b)   However, if such agency or official makes an oral request, the
department or the village will:
            1.   Document the oral request, including the identity of the
agency or official making the request;
            2.   Temporarily suspend the patient’s right to an accounting of
disclosures pursuant to the request; and
            3.   Limit the temporary suspension to no longer than 30 days from
the date of the oral request, unless the agency or official submits a written
request specifying a longer time period.
   (Q)   Filing a complaint.
      (1)   Patients may file complaints with the department or the village’s
Privacy Officer, and/or with the department or the State Department of Human
Services and/or with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS),
the Office for Civil Rights. The department or the village must give patients
the specific person or office and address of where to submit complaints. The
complaint process is more fully set forth hereinafter in this policy.
         (a)   Contact information for the department or the State Department
of Human Services:
            Address:
            Phone: 800-843-6154
         (b)   Contact information for the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, Office for Civil Rights:
            Medical Privacy, Complaint Division
            200 Independence Avenue, SW
            Washington, D.C. 20201
            Toll free phone: 877-696-6775
            Phone: 866-627-7748
            TTY: 886-788-4989
            E-mail: www.hhs.gov/ocr
      (2)   The department’s Privacy Officer is responsible for enforcing this
policy, and shall be entitled to the assistance of the Village Manager in doing
so, if such assistance should be needed. Individuals who violate this policy
will be subject to the appropriate and applicable disciplinary process under
this policy and the applicable ordinances of the village, up to and including
termination or dismissal.
   (R)   Forms. The following are the sample forms presently authorized for the
uses specified under the terms of this policy.
      (1)   Department/Village Notice of Privacy Practices.
 
NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES
 
THIS NOTICE DESCRIBES HOW MEDICAL
INFORMATION ABOUT YOU MAY BE USED
AND DISCLOSED AND HOW YOU CAN GET
ACCESS TO THIS INFORMATION.
 
PLEASE REVIEW IT CAREFULLY.
 
If you have any questions about this notice, please contact the Romeoville Fire
Department Shift Commander on duty at 815-886-7227, 18 Montrose Drive, Romeoville,
Illinois 60446.
 
WHO WILL FOLLOW THIS NOTICE
 
This notice describes the information privacy practices followed by our employees,
staff and other office personnel.
 
YOUR HEALTH INFORMATION
 
This notice applies to the information and records we have about your health,
health status, and the health care and services you receive at this office.
 
We are required by law to give you this notice. It will tell you about the ways in
which we may use and disclose health information about you and describes your
rights and our obligations regarding the use and disclosure of that information.
 
HOW WE MAY USE AND DISCLOSE HEALTH INFORMATION ABOUT YOU
 
For Treatment We may use health information about you to provide you with medical
treatment or services. We may disclose health information about you to doctors,
nurses, technicians, office staff or other personnel who are involved in taking
care of you and your health.
 
For example, this includes such things as verbal and written information that we
obtain about you and use pertaining to your medical condition and treatment
provided to you by us and other medical personnel (including doctors and nurses
who give orders to allow us to provide treatment to you). It also includes
information we give to other health care personnel to whom we transfer your care
and treatment, and includes transfer of PHI via radio or telephone to the hospital
or dispatch center as well as providing the hospital with a copy of the written
record we create in the course of providing you with treatment and transport.
 
Different personnel in our office may share information about you and disclose
information to people who do not work in our office in order to coordinate your
care, such as phoning in prescriptions to your pharmacy, scheduling lab work and
ordering x-rays. Family members and other health care providers may be part of
your medical care outside this office and may require information about you that
we have.
 
For Payment We may use and disclose health information about you so that the
treatment and services you receive at this office may be billed to and payment may
be collected from you, an insurance company or a third party. For example, we may
need to give your health plan information about a service you received here so
your health plan will pay us or reimburse you for the service. We may also tell
your health plan about a treatment you are going to receive to obtain prior
approval, or to determine whether your plan will cover the treatment.
 
For Health Care Operations We may use and disclose health information about you in
order to run the office and make sure that you and our other patients receive
quality care. For example, we may use your health information to evaluate the
performance of our staff in caring for you. We may also use health information
about all or many of our patients to help us decide what additional services we
should offer, how we can become more efficient, or whether certain new treatments
are effective.
 
Treatment Alternatives We may tell you about or recommend possible treatment
options or alternatives that may be of interest to you.
 
SPECIAL SITUATIONS
 
We may use or disclose health information about you without your permission for
the following purposes, subject to all applicable legal requirements and
limitations:
 
To Avert a Serious Threat to Health or Safety We may use and disclose health
information about you when necessary to prevent a serious threat to your health
and safety or the health and safety of the public or another person.
 
Required By Law We will disclose health information about you when required to do
so by federal, state or local law.
 
Research We may use and disclose health information about you for research
projects that are subject to a special approval process. We will ask you for your
permission if the researcher will have access to your name, address or other
information that reveals who you are, or will be involved in your care at the
office.
 
Organ and Tissue Donation If you are an organ donor, we may release health
information to organizations that handle organ procurement or organ, eye or tissue
transplantation or to an organ donation bank, as necessary to facilitate such
donation and transplantation.
 
Military, Veterans, National Security and Intelligence If you are or were a member
of the armed forces, or part of the national security or intelligence communities,
we may be required by military command or other government authorities to release
health information about you. We may also release information about foreign
military personnel to the appropriate foreign military authority.
 
Workers’ Compensation We may release health information about you for workers’
compensation or similar programs. These programs provide benefits for work-related
injuries or illness.
 
Public Health Risks We may disclose health information about you for public health
reasons in order to prevent or control disease, injury or disability; or report
births, deaths, suspected abuse or neglect, non-accidental physical injuries,
reactions to medications or problems with products.
 
Health Oversight Activities We may disclose health information to a health
oversight agency for audits, investigations, inspections, or licensing purposes.
These disclosures may be necessary for certain state and federal agencies to
monitor the health care system, government programs, and compliance with civil
rights laws.
 
Lawsuits and Disputes If you are involved in a lawsuit or a dispute, we may
disclose health information about you in response to a court or administrative
order. Subject to all applicable legal requirements, we may also disclose health
information about you in response to a subpoena.
 
Law Enforcement We may release health information if asked to do so by a law
enforcement official in response to a court order, subpoena, warrant, summons or
similar process, subject to all applicable legal requirements.
 
Coroners, Medical Examiners and Funeral Directors We may release health
information to a coroner or medical examiner. This may be necessary, for example,
to identify a deceased person or determine the cause of death.
 
Information Not Personally Identifiable We may use or disclose health information
about you in a way that does not personally identify you or reveal who you are.
 
Family and Friends We may disclose health information about you to your family
members or friends if we obtain your verbal agreement to do so or if we give you
an opportunity to object to such a disclosure and you do not raise an objection.
We may also disclose health information to your family or friends if we can infer
from the circumstances, based on our professional judgment that you would not
object. For example, we may assume you agree to our disclosure of your personal
health information to your spouse when you bring your spouse with you into the
exam room during treatment or while treatment is discussed.
 
In situations where you are not capable of giving consent (because you are not
present or due to your incapacity or medical emergency), we may, using our
professional judgment, determine that a disclosure to your family member or friend
is in your best interest. In that situation, we will disclose only health
information relevant to the person’s involvement in your care. For example, we may
inform the person who accompanied you to the emergency room that you suffered a
heart attack and provide updates on your progress and prognosis.
 
OTHER USES AND DISCLOSURES OF HEALTH INFORMATION
 
We will not use or disclose your health information for any purpose other than
those identified in the previous sections without your specific, written
Authorization. We must obtain your Authorization separate from any Consent we may
have obtained from you. If you give us Authorization to use or disclose health
information about you, you may revoke that Authorization, in writing, at any time.
If you revoke your Authorization, we will no longer use or disclose information
about you for the reasons covered by your written Authorization, but we cannot
take back any uses or disclosures already made with your permission.
 
If we have HIV or substance abuse information about you, we cannot release that
information without a special signed, written authorization (different than the
Authorization and Consent mentioned above) from you. In order to disclose these
types of records for purposes of treatment, payment or health care operations, we
will have to have both your signed Consent and a special written Authorization
that complies with the law governing HIV or substance abuse records.
 
YOUR RIGHTS REGARDING HEALTH INFORMATION ABOUT YOU
 
You have the following rights regarding health information we maintain about you:
 
Right to Inspect and Copy You have the right to inspect and copy your health
information, such as medical and billing records, that we use to make decisions
about your care. You must submit a written request to the Romeoville Fire
Department Privacy Officer or his designee in order to inspect and/or copy your
health information. If you request a copy of the information, we may charge a fee
for the costs of copying, mailing or other associated supplies. We may deny your
request to inspect and/or copy in certain limited circumstances. If you are denied
access to your health information, you may ask that the denial be reviewed. If
such a review is required by law, we will select a licensed health care
professional to review your request and our denial. The person conducting the
review will not be the person who denied your request, and we will comply with the
outcome of the review.
 
Right to Amend If you believe health information we have about you is incorrect or
incomplete, you may ask us to amend the information. You have the right to request
an amendment as long as the information is kept by this office.
 
To request an amendment, complete and submit a Medical Record Amendment/Correction
Form to the Romeoville Fire Department Privacy Officer or his designee. We may
deny your request for an amendment if it is not in writing or does not include a
reason to support the request. In addition, we may deny your request if you ask us
to amend information that:
 
   a)   We did not create, unless the person or entity that created the
information is no longer available to make the amendment.
 
   b)   Is not part of the health information that we keep.
 
   c)   You would not be permitted to inspect and copy.
 
   d)   Is accurate and complete.
 
Right to an Accounting of Disclosures You have the right to request an “accounting
of disclosures.” This is a list of the disclosures we made of medical information
about you for purposes other than treatment, payment and health care operations.
To obtain this list, you must submit your request in writing to the Romeoville
Fire Department Privacy Officer or his designee. It must state a time period,
which may not be longer than six years and may not include dates before April 14,
2003. Your request should indicate in what form you want the list (for example, on
paper, electronically). We may charge you for the costs of providing the list. We
will notify you of the cost involved and you may choose to withdraw or modify your
request at that time before any costs are incurred.
 
Right to Request Restrictions You have the right to request a restriction or
limitation on the health information we use or disclose about you for treatment,
payment or health care operations. You also have the right to request a limit on
the health information we disclose about you to someone who is involved in your
care or the payment for it, like a family member or friend. For example, you could
ask that we not use or disclose information about a surgery you had.
 
We are Not Required to Agree to Your Request If we do agree, we will comply with
your request unless the information is needed to provide you emergency treatment.
 
Right to Request Confidential Communications You have the right to request that we
communicate with you about medical matters in a certain way or at a certain
location. For example, you can ask that we only contact you at work or by mail.
 
To request confidential communications, you may complete and submit the Request
For Restriction On Use/Disclosure Of Medical Information And/Or Confidential
Communication to the Romeoville Fire Department Privacy Officer or his designee.
We will not ask you the reason for your request. We will accommodate all
reasonable requests. Your request must specify how or where you wish to be
contacted.
 
Right to a Paper Copy of This Notice You have the right to a paper copy of this
notice. You may ask us to give you a copy of this notice at any time. Even if you
have agreed to receive it electronically, you are still entitled to a paper copy.
To obtain such a copy, contact the Romeoville Fire Department Privacy Officer or
his designee.
 
CHANGES TO THIS NOTICE
 
We reserve the right to change this notice, and to make the revised or changed
notice effective for medical information we already have about you as well as any
information we receive in the future. We will post a summary of the current notice
in the office with its effective date in the top right hand corner. You are
entitled to a copy of the notice currently in effect.
 
COMPLAINTS
 
If you believe your privacy rights have been violated, you may file a complaint
with our office or with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human
Services. To file a complaint with our office, contact the Romeoville Fire
Department Privacy Officer at 815-886-7227. You will not be penalized for filing a
complaint.
 
      (2)   Acknowledgment of receipt of notice of privacy practices.
 
Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville
Acknowledgment of Receipt of Notice of Privacy Practices
 
I hereby acknowledge that I have been provided with a copy of ABC Fire District’s Notice of Privacy Practices on this date.
 
 
 
                                                                                 
DateSignature
 
 
 
                                                         
PRINT NAME OF PATIENT
 
 
                                                         
Street Address
 
 
                                                         
City, State and Zip Code
 
 
      (3)   Request for restriction on use and disclosure of PHI.
 
 
REQUEST FOR RESTRICTION ON USE & DISCLOSURE OF PHI
 
Patient Name:
                                                                                     
Phone Number (Day):
Phone Number (Evening):
Street or PO Box:
City:
State:
Zip:
 
1)   Medical Information to be Restricted:
 
 
 
2)   Nature of Restriction:
 
 
 
3)   Medical Information to be Communicated Confidentially:
 
 
 
4)   Alternative Location/Address/Telephone Number/E-mail:
 
 
 
TO OUR PATIENTS: You have the right to request that we restrict our use and disclosure of your medical records and information. We do not have to agree to your requested
restrictions. If we do agree to the requested restriction, we will abide by the restriction unless a medical emergency requires otherwise. You also have the right to
request that we communicate certain medical information to you in confidence. We will accommodate your reasonable written requests to receive communications of medical
information by alternative means or at alternative locations only if you (1) specify the alternative location, address, or telephone number and/or the alternative means
of contact and (2) agree to be responsible for and explain how payment will be handled for any additional costs associated with the alternative method of communication.
By your signature below, you acknowledge that you understand and agree to the above information.
 
Signature of Patient:
 
Date:
 
Request for Restriction Accepted
 
Request for Restriction Denied
 
Request to Communicate Confidentiality Accepted
 
Request to Communicate Confidentiality Denied
 
This Request for Restriction and Confidential Communication Form is to be made a part of the medical record of: (Patient Name)
 
 
      (4)   Patient request for access form.
 
Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville
Patient Request for Access Form
 
Patient:
 
Date:
 
Address:
 
City: State: Zip Code:
 
Social Security No.:
 
Last Date of Service:
 
Patient Rights: As a patient, you have the right to access, copy or inspect your protected health information, or PHI, in accordance with federal law. You may also have the right to request an amendment to your PHI, or request
that we restrict the use and disclosure of it. These rights are further described in our Notice of Privacy Practices and in other policies, which you may have upon request.
 
To better allow us to process your request, please indicate the type of request you are making on this form: [check all that apply]
 
 
Access to simply review my health information.
 
Access to obtain copies of my health information.
 
Access to review and potentially request amendment of my health information.
 
Access to review and potentially request an accounting of how my PHI has been used and disclosed to others.
 
Access to review and potentially request restrictions on the use and disclosure of my health information.
 
We will evaluate your request and will either grant it or explain the reason why the request will not be granted. In the event that your inspection request is not granted you may request that the decision be reviewed by someone
other than the person who originally denied the request.
 
 
Signature Request Date
 
REVIEW SECTION INTERNAL USE ONLY
 
This section is to be completed by the reviewer:
Date      Reviewed by:
received:
Chief
Privacy   Review Date:
Officer:
The inspection request is hereby:
 
Granted
 
Denied
 
If the request is denied, indicate the reason for the denial:
 
Reviewer’s Comments:
 
                                                                                                                        
 
 
      (5)   PHI/Medical Record Amendment/Correction Form.
 
MEDICAL RECORD AMENDMENT/CORRECTION FORM
 
Patient Name:
 
Phone Number (day):
 
Phone Number (night):
 
Street or PO Box:
 
City:
 
State:
 
Zip:
 
1)   Date of Medical Record Entry to be Corrected:
 
2)   Medical Record Language to be Amended/Corrected:
 
3)   Amendment/Correction:
 
4)   Reason for the Amendment/Correction:
 
5)   Identify persons who have received the Information (prior to Amendment/
Correction):
 
Name Organization/AddressPhone Number
 
 
 
 
 
 
6)   Do you authorize us to provide the information in Items no. 3 and no. 4 to
the persons and organizations listed in Item no. 5?
 
Yes
No, do not provide the information to:
 
TO OUR PATIENTS: You have the right to submit a Medical Record Amendment/
Correction Form to be made a part of your medical record. This right does not
permit you to alter or change the original record created by your health care
provider or his/her staff. We may deny your request to amend or correct your
records.
 
Amendment/Correction Accepted:
 
Amendment/Correction Denied:
 
 
Reason for Denial:
 
This Amendment/Correction Sheet Is to Be Made a Part of the Medical Record of:
 
 
Patient Name:
 
Date:
 
Signature of Patient:
 
If we have denied your requested amendment/correction, you have the right to
submit a written statement disagreeing with the denial and your reason for
disagreement. We may reasonably limit the length of your written statement, and we
may prepare a rebuttal to your written statement of disagreement (and provide you
with a copy).
 
If we have denied your requested amendment/correction and you do not submit a
written statement of disagreement as discussed above, you may request that we
include a copy of this document with any future disclosures of the information
identified in Items # 1 and # 2 above.
 
Please make your request in writing, and sign and date the request.
 
If you believe we have failed to meet our obligations as explained in our “Notice
Of Privacy Practices” or our legal obligations under state or federal law, you may
contact the Romeoville Fire Department Privacy Officer at 815-886-7227, 18
Montrose Drive, Romeoville, Illinois, 60446 regarding your complaint. You may also
file a complaint with Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services within 180 days of the date you know or should know of the act that is
the subject of your complaint. Your complaint to the Secretary must be filed in
writing, either electronically or on paper.
 
      (6)   Request for accounting of disclosures of PHI.
 
Request for Accounting of Disclosures of
Protected Health Information
 
ROMEOVILLE FIRE DEPARTMENT/VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE
18 MONTROSE DRIVE, ROMEOVILLE, ILLINOIS 60446
815-886-7227
 
As required by the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) you have a right to request an accounting of
disclosures of health information that pertains to you.
 
REQUEST SECTION
 
I, (Patient name) hereby request an accounting of disclosures of my protected health information that have occurred over the last (Time
Period - Up to 6 years).
 
 
                                                                             
SignatureDate
 
REQUEST PROCESSING SECTION - INTERNAL USE ONLY
 
This section is to be completed by the reviewer:
Date      Reviewed by:
received:
Chief
Privacy   Review Date:
Officer:
The requested disclosure accounting was processed on (Date).
 
 
      (7)   Denial of request for access to PHI.
 
Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville
Denial of Request for Access to Protected Health Information
 
Dear [INSERT REQUESTOR’S NAME]:
 
We have carefully reviewed your request to have access to certain protected
health information (PHI) that the Romeoville Fire Department has in its
possession about you. Unfortunately, we are unable to grant your request for
access to this information.
 
The basis for this denial is that:
 
1. The information you requested was compiled in reasonable anticipation of, or
use in, a civil, criminal or administrative action or proceeding;
 
2. The information you requested was obtained from someone other than a health
care provider under a promise of confidentiality and the access requested would
be reasonably likely to reveal the source of information.
 
The denials for reasons #1 and #2 are final and you may not appeal the decision
to deny access to the information.
 
3. A licensed health care professional has determined, in the exercise of
professional judgment, that the access requested is reasonable likely to
endanger the life or physical safety of the individual or another person;
 
4. The protected health information makes reference to another person (other
than a health care provider) and a licensed health professional has determined,
in the exercise of professional judgment, that the access requested is
reasonably likely to cause substantial harm to that person;
 
5. The request for access is made by you as a personal representative of the
individual about whom you are requesting the information, and a licensed health
professional has determined, in the exercise of professional judgment, that
access by you is reasonably likely to cause harm to the individual or another
person.
 
Denials for access for reasons #3, #4 or #5 may be reviewed in accordance with
the review procedure described below.
 
Review Procedures
 
If the denial of your request for access to PHI is for reasons #3, 4 or 5, you
may request a review of the denial of access by sending a written request to:
 
Romeoville Fire Department Privacy Officer, 18 Montrose Drive, Romeoville,
Illinois 60446
 
We will designate a licensed health professional, who was not directly involved
in the denial, to review the decision to deny you access. We will promptly
refer your request to this designated review official. The review official will
determine within a reasonable period of time whether the denial is appropriate.
We will provide you with written notice of the determination of the designated
review official.
 
You may also file a complaint in accordance with our enclosed complaint
procedures (available upon request) if you are not satisfied with our
determination.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
 
Privacy Officer
Romeoville Fire Department
 
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 6. PATIENT ACCESS REQUEST FOR ACCESS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Overview.
      (1)   The Privacy Officer manages the access and denial process. Patients
have a right to inspect and receive a copy, at their expense, of the protected
health information (PHI) in their designated record set. Exceptions to this
include: psychotherapy notes, information compiled in anticipation of or use in
a civil, criminal, or administration action or proceeding, and protected health
information (PHI) subject to the Clinical Laboratory Improvements Amendments
(CLIA) of 1988.
      (2)   All workforce members must strictly observe the following
standards.
   (B)   Procedure for PHI access.
      (1)   A patient has the right to inspect, or receive copies of PHI about
the patient in a designated record set for as long as the PHI is maintained in
the designated record set.
      (2)   If the department or the village does not maintain the PHI that is
the subject of the patient’s request for access, and the department or the
village knows where the requested information is maintained, the department or
the village must inform the patient where to direct the request for access.
      (3)   The patient must make the request in writing.
      (4)   The department or the village must act on the patient’s request no
later than the 30th business day after receipt and payment of the request. The
department or the village shall:
         (a)   Make the information available, in full or in part, for
examination; or inform the authorized requestor if the information does not
exist, cannot be found, or is not yet complete. Upon completion or location of
the information, the department or the village will notify the patient.
         (b)   If the access is granted, in whole or in part, the department or
the village must comply with the following requirements:
            1.   The department or the village must provide the patient access
to his or her PHI in the designated record sets, including inspection or
receiving a copy, or both. If the same PHI that is the subject of a request for
access is maintained in more than one designated record set or at more than one
location, the department or the village need only produce the PHI once in
response to a request for access.
            2.   The department or the village must provide the patient with
access to the PHI in the form or format requested by the patient, if it is
readily producible in such form or format; or, if not, in a readable hard copy
form or such other form or format as agreed to by both parties.
      (5)   The department or the village may provide the patient with a
summary of the PHI requested, in lieu of providing access to the PHI or may
provide an explanation of the PHI to which access has been provided, if:
         (a)   The patient agrees in advance to such a summary or explanation;
and
         (b)   The patient agrees in advance to the fees imposed, if any, by
the covered entity for such summary or explanation.
      (6)   The department or the village must provide the access as requested
by the patient in a timely manner, including arranging with the patient for a
convenient time and place to inspect or receive a copy of the PHI, or mailing
the copy of the PHI at the patient’s request.
      (7)   The department or the village may discuss the scope, format, and
other aspects of the request for access with the patient as necessary to
facilitate the timely provision of access.
      (8)   If the patient requests a copy of the PHI or agrees to a summary or
explanation of such information, the department or the village may impose a
reasonable, cost-based fee, provided that the fee includes only the cost of:
         (a)   Copying, including the cost of supplies for and labor of
copying, the PHI requested. The fee schedule for these services is the
reimbursement of the cost therefor;
         (b)   Postage, if the patient has requested the copy, summary, or the
explanation is mailed. The fee schedule for postage can be obtained from the
department or the village; and
         (c)   Preparing an explanation or summary of the PHI, if agreed to by
the patient.
   (C)   Procedure if PHI access is denied.
      (1)   The department or the village must allow a patient to request
access to inspect or receive a copy of PHI maintained in their designated
record set. However, the department or the village may deny a patient’s request
without providing an opportunity for review when:
         (a)   An exception detailed above in the policy statement exists;
         (b)   The department or the village is acting under the direction of a
correctional institution and the prisoner’s request to obtain a copy of PHI
would jeopardize the patient, other prisoners, or the safety of any officer,
employee, or other person at the correctional institution, or a person
responsible for transporting the prisoner;
         (c)   The patient agreed to temporary denial of access when consenting
to participate in research that includes treatment, and the research is not yet
complete;
         (d)   The records are subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. §
552a, and the denial of access meets the requirements of that law; the PHI was
obtained from someone other than the department or the village under a promise
of confidentiality and access would likely reveal the source of the
information.
      (2)   The department or the village may also deny a patient access for
other reasons, provided that the patient is given a right to have such denials
reviewed under the following circumstances:
         (a)   The department or the village or a licensed health care provider
designated or appointed by the department or the village has determined that
the access is likely to endanger the life or physical safety of the patient or
another person;
         (b)   The PHI makes reference to another person who is not a health
care provider, and the department or the village or a licensed health care
professional designated or appointed by the department or the village has
determined that the access requested is likely to cause substantial harm to
such other person;
         (c)   The patient’s surrogate decision maker makes the request for
access and the department or the village or a licensed health care professional
designated or appointed by the department or the village, has determined that
access is likely to cause substantial harm to the patient or another person.
      (3)   If access is denied on a ground permitted above, the patient has
the right to have the denial reviewed by the department or the village or a
licensed health care professional designated or appointed by the department or
the village to act as a reviewing official, and who did not participate in the
original decision to deny. The department or the village must provide or deny
access in accordance with the determination of the reviewing official.
      (4)   If the department or the village denies access, in whole or in
part, to PHI, the department or the village must comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   The department or the village must, to the extent possible, give
the patient access to any other PHI requested, after excluding the PHI to which
the department or the village denied access.
         (b)   The department or the village must provide a timely, written
denial to the patient, in plain language and containing:
            1.   The basis for the denial;
            2.   If applicable, a statement of the patient’s review rights,
including a description of how the patient may exercise such review rights; and
            3.   A description of how the patient may complain to the
department or the village pursuant to the department or the village’s complaint
policy.
      (5)   If the patient has requested a review of a denial, the department
or the village must designate or appoint a licensed health care professional,
who was not directly involved in the decision to deny access. The department or
the village must promptly refer a request for review to such licensed health
care professional. The licensed health care professional must determine, within
a reasonable period of time, whether or not to deny the access requested based
on the aforementioned procedures and standards. The department or the village
must promptly provide written notice to the patient of the findings of the
reviewing licensed health care professional, and take other action as required
by this section to carry out the licensed health care professional’s
determination.
   (D)   Enforcement. The department’s Privacy Officer is responsible for
enforcing this policy, and shall be entitled to the assistance of the Village
Manager in doing so, if such assistance should be needed. Individuals who
violate this policy will be subject to the appropriate and applicable
disciplinary process under this policy and the applicable ordinances of the
village, up to and including termination or dismissal.
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 7. STORAGE OF PHI.
   (A)   The department and the village have a duty to protect the
confidentiality and integrity of confidential medical information as required
by law, professional ethics, and accreditation requirements. This policy
defines the guidelines and procedures that must be followed for the storage of
PHI. All personnel must strictly observe the following standards relating to
the storage of PHI:
      (1)   The department and the village personnel must ensure that, outside
of regular working hours, all desks and working areas that contain PHI are
properly secured, unless the immediate area can be secured from unauthorized
access.
      (2)   When PHI is being released through electronic medium such as
teleconference, video feed, or over the Internet, the department and the
village personnel must treat the protection of PHI in the same manner as PHI
recorded on paper, securing and limiting access to the PHI to authorized
personnel only.
      (3)   PHI stored in medical equipment (e.g. EKG, Ultrasound, Flexsig
machines) must be kept secure and disposed of as provided for in this policy.
      (4)   When not in use, PHI must always be protected from unauthorized
access. When left in an unattended room, such information must be appropriately
secured.
      (5)   If PHI is to be stored on the hard disk drive or other internal
components of a personal computer or PDA (Personal Digital Assistant), it must
be protected by either a password or encryption. Unless encrypted, when not in
use, this media must be secured from unauthorized access.
      (6)   If PHI is stored on diskettes, CD-ROM or other removable data
storage media, it cannot be commingled with other electronic information.
   (B)   The department’s Privacy Officer is responsible for enforcing this
policy, and shall be entitled to the assistance of the Village Manager in doing
so, if such assistance should be needed. Individuals who violate this policy
will be subject to the appropriate and applicable disciplinary process under
this policy and the applicable ordinances of the village, up to and including
termination or dismissal.
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 8. PROCEDURE FOR AMENDING PHI.
   (A)   Patients have a right to amend information collected and maintained
about them in their designated record set. All personnel must strictly observe
the following standards.
   (B)   An individual has the right to have the department and the village
amend PHI or a record about the individual in a designated record set for as
long as the PHI is maintained in the designated record set.
   (C)   The department and the village may deny an individual’s request for
amendment, if it is determined that the PHI or record that is the subject of
the request:
      (1)   Was not created by the department and the village, unless the
individual provides a reasonable basis to believe that the originator of the
PHI is no longer available to act on the requested amendment;
      (2)   Is not part of the designated record set;
      (3)   Would not be available for inspection under this policy; or
      (4)   Is accurate and complete.
   (D)   The individual must make the request to amend the PHI in writing with
a reason to support a requested amendment. The request should be on a form as
set forth in §
5 of this policy.
   (E)   The department and the village must accept all requests to amend PHI
in the designated record set; however, the department and the village are not
required to act on the individual’s request if it is in accordance with
subdivisions (C)(1), (2), (3) or (4) above.
   (F)   The department and the village must act on the individual’s request
for an amendment no later than 60 days after receipt of such a request. If the
department and the village is unable to act on the amendment within the
required 60 day time limit, the department and the village may extend the time
for such action by no more than 30 days, provided that the department and the
village provides the individual with a written statement of the reasons for the
delay and the date by which action on the request will be completed and the
department and the village may have only one such extension of time for action
on a request for an amendment.
   (G)   If the amendment is granted, in whole or in part, the department and
the village must make the appropriate amendment to the PHI or record that is
the subject of the request for amendment by, at a minimum, identifying the
records in the designated record set that are affected by the amendment and
appending or otherwise providing a link to the location of the amendment. The
department and the village must inform the individual in a timely manner that
the amendment is accepted and obtain the individual’s identification of and
agreement to have the department and the village notify the relevant persons
with which the amendment needs to be shared. The department and the village
must make reasonable efforts to inform and provide the amendment within a
reasonable time, to:
      (1)   Persons identified by the individual as having received PHI about
the individual and needing the amendment; and
      (2)   Persons, including business associates, that the department and the
village knows have the PHI that is the subject of the amendment and that may
have relied on such information to the detriment of the individual.
   (H)   If the requested amendment is denied, in whole or in part, the
department and the village must provide the individual with a timely, written
denial. The denial must use plain language and contain:
      (1)   The basis for the denial;
      (2)   The individual’s right to submit a written statement disagreeing
with the denial and how the individual may file such a statement;
      (3)   A statement that, if the individual does not submit a statement of
disagreement, the individual may request that the department and the village
provide the individual’s request for amendment and the denial with any future
disclosures of the PHI that is the subject of the amendment; and
      (4)   A description of how the individual may complain to the department
and the village or the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) in accordance with this policy.
   (I)   Additionally for denials:
      (1)   The department and the village must permit the individual to submit
a written statement disagreeing with the denial of all or part of a requested
amendment and the basis of such disagreement.
      (2)   The department and the village may reasonably limit the length of a
statement of disagreement.
      (3)   The department and the village may prepare a written rebuttal to
the individual’s statement of disagreement. Whenever such a rebuttal is
prepared, a copy of the rebuttal must be provided to the individual who
submitted the statement of disagreement.
      (4)   The department and the village must, as appropriate, identify the
record or PHI in the designated record set that is the subject of the disputed
amendment and append or otherwise link the individual’s request for an
amendment, the denial of the request, the individual’s statement of
disagreement, if any, and the rebuttal, if any, to the designated record set.
   (J)   If a statement of disagreement has been submitted by the individual,
the department and the village must include the patient’s request for an
amendment, the denial of the request, the patient’s statement of disagreement
and the rebuttal, if any, or an accurate summary of any such information, with
any subsequent disclosure of the PHI to which the disagreement relates.
   (K)   If the individual has not submitted a written statement of
disagreement, the department and the village must include the individual’s
request for amendment and its denial, or an accurate summary of such
information, with any subsequent disclosure of the PHI only if the individual
has requested such action.
   (L)   When a subsequent disclosure is made using a standard transaction that
does not permit the additional material to be included with the disclosure, the
department and the village may separately transmit the material required to the
recipient of the standard transaction.
   (M)   If the department or the village is informed by another provider or
payer of an amendment they have made to an individual’s PHI within the outside
entities’ designated record set, the department and the village must amend the
PHI in designated record sets that have been received from those outside
entities. However, the department and the village do not have to amend the PHI
in the department and the village designated record set based upon an outside
determination, unless the department and the village have relied on the outside
entities’ findings.
   (N)   Patients may request to have their PHI amended by submitting a Request
for Correction/Amendment of Protected Health Information Form as set forth in §
5.
   (O)   Once the department and the village make a decision regarding the
request for amendment, the department and the village will send a final letter
outlining the decision to the patient. If the decision is to amend, the
department and the village will document the decision in a Medical Record
Amendment/Correction Form.
   (P)   The department’s Privacy Officer is responsible for enforcing this
policy, and shall be entitled to the assistance of the Village Manager in doing
so, if such assistance should be needed. Individuals who violate this policy
will be subject to the appropriate and applicable disciplinary process under
this policy and the applicable ordinances of the village, up to and including
termination or dismissal.
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 9. PROCEDURE FOR DEIDENTIFICATION OF PHI.
   (A)   The department and the village have a duty to protect the
confidentiality and integrity of PHI as required by law, professional ethics,
and accreditation requirements. Whenever possible, de-identified PHI should be
used. De-identified PHI is rendered anonymous when identifying characteristics
are completely removed. PHI must be de-identified prior to disclosure to non-
authorized users. This policy defines the guidelines and procedures that must
be followed for the de-identification of PHI.
   (B)   All workforce members must strictly observe the following standards
relating to the deidentification of PHI:
      (1)   De-identification requires the elimination not only of primary or
obvious identifiers, such as the patient’s name, address, date of birth (DOB),
and treating physician, but also of secondary identifiers through which a user
could deduce the patient’s identity. For information to be de-identified the
following identifiers of the individual (or of relatives, employers, or
household member of the individual) must be removed:
         (a)   Names;
         (b)   Address information smaller than a state, including street
address, city, county, zip code (except if by combining all zip codes with the
same initial three digits, there are more than 20,000 people);
         (c)   Names of relatives and employers;
         (d)   All element of dates (except year), including DOB, admission
date, discharge date, date of death; and all ages over 89 and all elements of
dates including year indicative of such age except that such ages and elements
may be aggregated into a single category of age 90 or older;
         (e)   Telephone numbers;
         (f)   Fax numbers;
         (g)   Email addresses;
         (h)   Social Security Number (SSN);
         (i)   Medical record number;
         (j)   Health beneficiary plan number;
         (k)   Account numbers;
         (l)   Certificate/License Number;
         (m)   Vehicle identifiers, including license plate numbers;
         (n)   Device ID and serial number;
         (o)   Uniform Resource Locator (URL);
         (p)   Identifier Protocol (IP) addresses;
         (q)   Biometric identifiers;
         (r)   Full face photographic images and other comparable images; and
         (s)   Any other unique identifying number characteristic, or code.
      (2)   Whenever possible, de-identified PHI should be used for quality
assurance monitoring and routine utilization reporting.
      (3)   PHI used for research, including public health research, should be
de-identified at the point of data collection for research protocols approved
by the IRB, unless the participant voluntarily and expressly consents to the
use of his or her personally identifiable information or an IRB waiver of
authorization is obtained.
      (4)   If an authorized user wishes to encrypt PHI when creating de-
identified information the authorized user must ensure that:
         (a)   The code or other means of record identification is not derived
from or related to information about the individual and is not otherwise
capable of being translated so as to identify the individual; and
         (b)   Anyone involved in the research project does not use or disclose
the code or other means of record identification and does not disclose the
mechanism to accomplish re-identification.
      (5)   If removal of any identifiers is not practical or does not meet
business needs, and the use of PHI is still required, approval must be obtained
from the Privacy Officer, without exception.
   (C)   The department’s Privacy Officer is responsible for enforcing this
policy, and shall be entitled to the assistance of the Village Manager in doing
so, if such assistance should be needed. Individuals who violate this policy
will be subject to the appropriate and applicable disciplinary process under
this policy and the applicable ordinances of the village, up to and including
termination or dismissal.
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 10. PROCEDURE FOR DISPOSAL OF PHI.
   (A)   General. The village and the department have a duty to protect the
confidentiality and integrity of confidential medical information as required
by law, professional ethics, and accreditation requirements. PHI may only be
disposed of by means that assure that it will not be accidentally released to
an outside party. Management must assure that appropriate means of disposal are
reasonably available and operational.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Standards. All personnel must strictly observe the following
standards relating to disposal of hardcopy and electronic copies of PHI:
         (a)   PHI must not be discarded in trash bins, unsecured recycle bags
or other publicly accessible locations. Instead this information must be
personally shredded or placed in a secured recycling bag.
         (b)   Printed material and electronic data containing PHI shall be
disposed of in a manner that ensures confidentiality.
         (c)   It is the individual’s responsibility to ensure that the
document has been secured or destroyed. It is the Privacy Officer’s
responsibility to ensure that all employees are adhering to the policy.
      (2)   Destruction of convenience copies and original documents (day-to-
day destruction).
         (a)   The Privacy Officer shall provide users with access to shredders
or secured recycling bags for proper disposal of confidential printouts
containing PHI.
         (b)   Users may elect to use either shredding or secure recycle bags
for the destruction of convenience copies, as long as the destruction is in
accordance with this policy.
      (3)   Electronic copies. Secure methods will be used to dispose of
electronic data and output. The Privacy Officer is responsible for the
destruction of electronic copies containing PHI. However, employees may dispose
of the electronic data themselves using the following methods:
         (a)   Deleting on-line data using the appropriate utilities;
         (b)   “Degaussing” computer tapes to prevent recovery of data;
         (c)   Removing PHI from mainframe disk drives being sold or replaced,
using the appropriate initialization utilities;
         (d)   Erasing diskettes to be re-used using a special utility to
prevent recovery of data; or
         (e)   Destroying discarded diskettes.
      (4)   Hardcopy (bulk destruction). Secure methods will be used to dispose
of hardcopy data and output.
         (a)   PHI printed material shall be shredded and recycled by a firm
specializing in the disposal of confidential records or be shredded by an
employee of the department or the village authorized to handle and personally
shred the PHI.
         (b)   Microfilm or microfiche must be cut into pieces or chemically
destroyed. After documents have reached their retention period, all PHI must be
securely destroyed. If hardcopy PHI (paper, microfilm, microfiche, etc.) cannot
be shredded, it must be incinerated.
      (5)   Documentation of destruction.
         (a)   To ensure that it is in fact performed, department or village
personnel or a bonded destruction service must carry out the destruction of
PHI.
         (b)   If a bonded shredding company undertakes the destruction, the
bonded shredding company must provide the department or the village with the
document of destruction that contains the following information:
            1.   Date of destruction;
            2.   Method of destruction;
            3.   Description of the disposed records;
            4.   Inclusive dates covered;
            5.   A statement that the records have been destroyed in the normal
course of business; and
            6.   The signatures of the individuals supervising and witnessing
the destruction.
         (c)   The bonded shredding company must provide the Privacy Officer
with a Certificate of Destruction.
         (d)   The department’s Privacy Officer is responsible for enforcing
this policy, and shall be entitled to the assistance of the Village Manager in
doing so, if such assistance should be needed. Individuals who violate this
policy will be subject to the appropriate and applicable disciplinary process
under this policy and the applicable ordinances of the village, up to and
including termination or dismissal.
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 11. ADMINISTRATIVE, TECHNICAL AND PHYSICAL SAFEGUARDS TO PROTECT PHI.
   (A)   General. The department and the village must take reasonable steps to
safeguard information from any intentional or unintentional use or disclosure
that is in violation of the privacy policies. Information to be safeguarded may
be in any medium, including paper, electronic, oral and visual representations
of confidential information.
   (B)   Safeguarding confidential information - workplace and workstation
practices.
      (1)   Paper.
         (a)   Each of the department’s or the village’s workplaces and
workstations will store files and documents in locked rooms or storage systems.
         (b)   In workplaces and workstations where lockable storage is not
available, department and village staff members must take reasonable efforts to
ensure the safeguarding of confidential information.
         (c)   Each of the department’s or the village’s workplaces and
workstations will ensure that files and documents awaiting disposal or
destruction in desk-site containers, storage rooms, or centralized waste/shred
bins, are appropriately labeled, are disposed of on a regular basis, and that
all reasonable measures are taken to minimize access.
         (d)   Each of the department’s or the village’s workplaces and
workstations will ensure that shredding of files and documents is performed on
a timely basis, consistent with record retention requirements and policies.
      (2)   Oral.
         (a)   Department and village staff and workforce members must take
reasonable steps to protect the privacy of all verbal exchanges or discussions
of confidential information, regardless of where the discussion occurs.
         (b)   Each of the department’s or the village’s workplaces and
workstations shall make enclosed offices and/or interview rooms available for
the verbal exchange of confidential information.
         Exception: In work environments structured with few offices or closed
rooms, such as open office environments, uses or disclosures that are
incidental to an otherwise permitted use or disclosure could occur. Such
incidental uses or disclosures are not considered a violation provided that the
department of the village has met the reasonable safeguards and minimum
necessary requirements.
         (c)   Each of the department’s or the village’s workplaces and
workstation must foster employee awareness of the potential for inadvertent
verbal disclosure of confidential information.
      (3)   Visual. Department and village staff and workforce members must
ensure that observable confidential information is adequately shielded from
unauthorized disclosure on computer screens and paper documents.
         (a)   Computer screens. Each workplace and workstation must make every
effort to ensure that confidential information on computer screens is not
visible to unauthorized persons.
         (b)   Paper documents. Department and village staff and workforce must
be aware of the risks regarding how paper documents are used and handled, and
must take all necessary precautions to safeguard confidential information.
   (C)   Safeguarding confidential information - administrative safeguards.
      (1)   Implementation of role-based access (RBA) and the “minimum
necessary” procedure outlined hereinabove will promote administrative
safeguards.
      (2)   Role based access (RBA) is a form of security allowing access to
data based on job function in accordance with department and village security
procedures. Department and village’s staff and workforce members shall be given
access only to the minimum necessary information to fulfill their job
functions.
      (3)   Conducting internal reviews periodically will permit the department
and the village to evaluate the effectiveness of safeguards.
      (4)   All department and village managers, supervisors, staff and
workforce members, including volunteers and trainees, are required to sign a
document constituting a formal commitment and understanding to adhere to
department and village privacy and security policies.
   (D)   Safeguarding confidential information - workplace and workstation
practices.
      (1)   Paper.
         (a)   Files and documents being stored:
            1.   Lockable desks, file rooms, open area storage systems must be
locked.
            2.   Where desks, file rooms, or open area storage systems are not
lockable, reasonable efforts to safeguard confidential information must be
implemented.
         (b)   Files and documents awaiting disposal/destruction:
            1.   Desk-site containers: department and village workplaces and
workstations will ensure that confidential information awaiting disposal is
stored in containers that are appropriately labeled and are properly disposed
of on a regular basis.
            2.   Storage rooms containing confidential information awaiting
disposal: each department and village workplace and workstation workforce
member will ensure that storage rooms are locked after business hours or when
authorized staff or management are not present.
            3.   Centralized waste/shred bins: each department and village
workplace and workstation workforce member will ensure that all centralized
bins or containers for disposed confidential information are clearly labeled
“confidential”, sealed, and placed in a lockable storage room.
            4.   Each department and village workplace and workstation
workforce member that does not have lockable storage rooms or centralized
waste/shred bins must implement reasonable procedures to minimize access to
confidential information.
         (c)   Shredding of files and documents authorized consistent with
record retention requirements:
            1.   Department and village managers and supervisors must ensure
that shredding is done timely, preferably on a daily basis.
            2.   Outside contractors: department and village must ensure that
such entity is under a written contract that requires safeguarding of
confidential information throughout the destruction process.
      (2)   Oral.
         (a)   Department and village staff and workforce members must take
reasonable steps to protect the privacy of all verbal exchanges or discussions
of confidential information, regardless of where the discussion occurs, and
should be aware of risk levels.
         (b)   Locations of verbal exchange with various levels of risk:
            1.   Low risk: interview rooms, enclosed offices and conference
rooms.
            2.   Medium risk: employee only areas, telephone and individual
cubicles.
            3.   High risk: public areas, reception areas and shared cubicles
housing multiple staff where clients are routinely present.
      (3)   Visual.
         (a)   Department and village staff and workforce members must ensure
that observable confidential information is adequately shielded from
unauthorized disclosure.
         (b)   Computer screens. Department and village managers, supervisors,
staff and workforce members must ensure that confidential information on
computer screens is not visible to unauthorized persons. Means for ensuring
this protection include:
            1.   Use of polarized screens or other computer screen overlay
devices that shield information on the screen from persons not the authorized
user;
            2.   Placement of computers out of the visual range of persons
other than the authorized user;
            3.   Clearing information from the screen when not actually being
used;
            4.   Locking-down computer work stations when not in use; and
            5.   Other effective means as available.
      (4)   Paper documents.
         (a)   Department and village staff and workforce members must be aware
of the risks regarding how paper documents are used and handled, and must take
all necessary precautions to safeguard confidential information.
         (b)   Department and village staff and workforce members must take
special care to ensure the protection and safeguarding of, and the minimum
necessary access to, paper documents containing confidential information that
are located on:
            1.   Desks;
            2.   Fax machines;
            3.   Photocopy machines;
            4.   Portable electronic devices (e.g., laptop computers, palm
pilots, etc.);
            5.   Computer printers; and
            6.   Common areas (e.g., break rooms, cafeterias, restrooms,
elevators, etc.).
   (E)   Safeguarding confidential information - administrative safeguards.
      (1)   Role based access (RBA). Roles will be created and defined based on
the information in department and village’s possession and where it is located
and how it is used and why. A determination of who should have access to the
specific data will be established.
      (2)   Department and village managers and supervisors will decide the
role of each of their staff and workforce members and request exceptions based
on the needs within their jurisdiction or area of responsibility.
      (3)   Managers are responsible for allowing access to enough information
for their staff and workforce members to do their jobs while holding to the
minimum necessary standard and policies.
      (4)   Department and village’s managers and supervisors will:
         (a)   Follow all instructions and policies to safeguard confidential
information;
         (b)   Foster a secure atmosphere and enhance the belief that
confidential information is important and that protecting privacy is key to
achieving department and village’s privacy goals.
         (c)   Assess and update as necessary the safeguards in place every six
months, seeking to achieve reasonable administrative, technical and physical
safeguards.
         (d)   Utilize all security policies to augment safeguard procedures.
      (5)   The department’s Privacy Officer is responsible for enforcing this
policy, and shall be entitled to the assistance of the Village Manager in doing
so, if such assistance should be needed. Individuals who violate this policy
will be subject to the appropriate and applicable disciplinary process under
this policy and the applicable ordinances of the village, up to and including
termination or dismissal.
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 12. ENFORCEMENT, SANCTIONS AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   All staff and workforce members must guard against improper uses or
disclosures of department and village’s patient information.
      (2)   Department and village staff and workforce members who are
uncertain if a disclosure is permitted are advised to consult with the
department and village Privacy Officer. The department and village Privacy
Officer is the responsible resource for any department and village employee who
cannot resolve a disclosure question, and may be consulted in accordance with
all privacy policies of department and village.
      (3)   All staff and workforce members are required to be aware of their
responsibilities under department and village privacy policies.
      (4)   Department and village staff and workforce members will be expected
to sign an “Employee Statement of Understanding of Privacy Policies”; included
with this section, indicating that they have been informed of department and
village business and privacy practices as they relate to privacy, and that they
understand their responsibilities to ensure the privacy of protected health
information of department and village patients. Management and supervisors are
responsible for assuring that employees who have access to confidential
information, whether it be electronic, hard copy, or orally, are informed of
their responsibilities.
      (5)   Department and village staff and workforce members who violate
department and village policies and procedures regarding the safeguarding of an
individual’s information are subject to disciplinary action by department and
village up to and including immediate dismissal, and legal action by the
individual.
      (6)   Department and village staff and workforce members who knowingly
and willfully violate state or federal law for improper use or disclosure of an
individual’s information are subject to criminal investigation and prosecution
or civil monetary penalties.
   (B)   Retaliation prohibited. Neither the department or village as an entity
nor any department and village employee will intimidate, threaten, coerce,
discriminate against, or take any other form of retaliatory action against:
      (1)   Any individual for exercising any right established under
department and village policy, or for participating in any process established
under department and village policy, including the filing of a complaint with
department and village or with DHHS.
      (2)   Any individual or other person for:
         (a)   Filing of a complaint with department and village or with DHHS
as provided in department and village privacy policies;
         (b)   Testifying, assisting, or participating in an investigation,
compliance review, proceeding, or hearing relating to department and village
policy and procedures; or
         (c)   Opposing any unlawful act or practice, provided that:
            1.   The individual or other person (including a department and
village staff and workforce member) has a good faith belief that the act or
practice being opposed is unlawful; and
            2.   The manner of such opposition is reasonable and does not
involve a use or disclosure of an individual’s protected health information in
violation of department and village policy.
   (C)   Disclosures by whistleblowers and workforce crime victims.
      (1)   A department or village staff, workforce member, or business
associate may disclose an individual’s PHI if:
         (a)   The department and village staff, workforce member, or business
associate believes, in good faith, that the department or the village has
engaged in conduct that is unlawful or that otherwise violates professional
standards or department and village policy, or that the care, services, or
conditions provided by the department and the village could endanger department
and village staff, workforce members, patients, or the public; and
         (b)   The disclosure is to:
            1.   An oversight agency or public authority authorized by law to
investigate or otherwise oversee the relevant conduct or conditions of
department and village;
            2.   An appropriate health care accreditation organization for the
purpose of reporting the allegation of failure to meet professional standards
or of misconduct by department and village; or
            3.   An attorney retained by or on behalf of the department and
village staff, workforce member, or business associate for the purpose of
determining the legal options of the department and village staff, workforce
member, or business associate with regard to this policy.
      (2)   Department and village’s staff and workforce members may disclose
limited protected information about an individual to a law enforcement official
if the staff or workforce member is the victim of a criminal act and the
disclosure is:
         (a)   About only the suspected perpetrator of the criminal act; and
         (b)   Limited to the following information about the suspected
perpetrator:
            1.   Name and address;
            2.   Date and place of birth;
            3.   Social Security number;
            4.   ABO blood type and Rh factor;
            5.   Type of any injury;
            6.   Date and time of any treatment; and
            7.   Date and time of death, if applicable.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Department and village staff and workforce members who violate
department and village policies and procedures regarding the safeguarding of an
individual’s information are subject to appropriate disciplinary action by the
department and the village, up to and including immediate dismissal from
employment.
      (2)   Department and village staff and workforce members who knowingly
and willfully violate state or federal law for improper invasions of personal
privacy may be subject to:
         (a)   Criminal investigation and prosecution, both by the state and by
the federal government, depending on the nature of the violation. Federal and
state law provides substantial fines and prison sentences upon conviction,
depending on the nature and severity of the violation.
         (b)   Civil monetary penalties that the federal Department of Health
and Human Services (DHHS) may impose.
      (3)   The department’s Privacy Officer is responsible for enforcing this
policy, and shall be entitled to the assistance of the Village Manager in doing
so, if such assistance should be needed. Individuals who violate this policy
will be subject to the appropriate and applicable disciplinary process under
this policy and the applicable ordinances of the village, up to and including
termination or dismissal.
   (E)   Employee statement of understanding of policy.
 
Employee Statement of Understanding of Privacy Policies
 
I, , have been trained and informed about the business and privacy practices in effect as a result of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).
 
I understand that I am responsible for ensuring the security, integrity and confidentiality of patient health information created, obtained and/or maintained by the Romeoville
Fire Department and the Village of Romeoville.
 
I have reviewed, understand, and agree to abide by the policy for privacy set forth as Appendix A to Chapter 32 of the Village Code of Ordinances.
 
I understand that non-compliance will be cause for disciplinary action up to and including dismissal, and possible legal actions for violations of applicable regulations and
laws.
 
I agree to promptly report all violations or suspected violations of any of the above policies to the Privacy Officer through the designated reporting channels.
 
 
                                                              
Print Employee Name
 
 
 
                                                                                         
Employee SignatureDate
 
 
 
                                                                                         
Privacy Officer/Designee SignatureDate
 
 
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 13. COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Filing HIPAA complaints. Any privacy related complaint made by a
patient, employee or volunteer at anytime must be forwarded to the Privacy
Officer. Complaints may also be made anonymously by calling the Privacy
Officer. A complaint form is included within this section.
   (B)   Investigation of complaints.
      (1)   The department will investigate alleged privacy violations and
complaints made by patients regarding alleged breaches of their privacy.
Employees and workforce members may be requested to assist in investigations
regarding complaints made by patients and other employees who believe fellow
employees have violated patient privacy standards.
      (2)   Simultaneously, the department will undertake an investigation to
determine if a breach of privacy has occurred. Any employee or workforce member
found to be in violation of this policy or breaches the confidentiality of a
patient’s protected health information will be subject to disciplinary action,
up to and including termination or dismissal.
   (C)   Complaint form.
Complaint Form
Romeoville Fire Department/Village of Romeoville
18 Montrose Drive, Romeoville, Illinois 60446
815-886-7227
 
As required by the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) you have a right to complain about our privacy policies, procedures or actions. We will not engage in any discriminatory or other retaliatory behavior against you because of this complaint. Please be as thorough and forthright as possible.
 
Please complete the sections below:
Name:
Address:
Phone:
Email Address:
What is the best way to reach you?
What are the best hours to reach you?
Details of your complaint: (Please be as specific as possible with dates, times and the specific policy, procedure or action taken; include the names, if any, of any one in the office with whom you discussed this. Use the other side of this form if you need more room.)
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
 
                                                                                         
SignatureDate
 
This section is to be completed by the reviewer:
Date      Reviewed by:
received:
Chief
Privacy   Review Date:
Officer:
Reviewer’s Comments:
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 
 
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
§ 14. INTERNAL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The Privacy Officer of the department shall be selected from time
to time by the Chief of the Department, and shall have overall responsibility
to ensure the compliance of the department with this policy. Because the
department operates on a 24 hour per day 7 day per week schedule, it is not
feasible for one individual to serve as full time Privacy Officer. Accordingly,
the Chief of the Department may designate the position of Shift Commander on-
duty as the Privacy Officer of the Department, and the Shift Commander may also
in turn designate assistant Privacy Officers authorized to act on his or her
behalf in his or her absence. The Village Manager shall lend such assistance as
may be requested by the Privacy Officer from time to time to enable and
facilitate the enforcement and administration of this policy by the Privacy
Officer.
      (2)   The Privacy Officer shall also coordinate closely with the Village
Personnel Director to ensure that any health related information arising as a
result of workplace injury or accident involving village personnel is handled
in strict accordance with this policy. At his or her discretion, the Privacy
Officer, upon the approval of the Department Chief, may circulate and prepare
memoranda of understanding between the department and other departments of the
village that may acquire or come into contact with PHI to ensure awareness of
such other departments of this policy, and to ensure compliance therewith.
   (B)   Privacy Officer job description and responsibilities.
      (1)   The Privacy Officer oversees all activities related to the
development, implementation, and maintenance of department and village policies
and procedures covering the privacy of PHI. This person serves as the key
compliance officer for all federal and state laws that apply to the privacy of
patient information, including the federal Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., HIPAA).
      (2)   This individual is tasked with the responsibility of ensuring that
all of the organization’s patient information privacy policies and procedures
related to the privacy of, and access to, patient health information are
followed.
         (a)   Duties and responsibilities.
            1.   Develop policies and procedures on staff training related to
the privacy of patient health information and protected health information;
            2.   Develop policies on the security of health care information
including computer and password security and patient data integrity;
            3.   Defines level of staff access to PHI and minimum necessary
requirement for staff based on the required job responsibilities;
            4.   Oversees, directs, delivers, and ensures the delivery of
initial and ongoing privacy training and orientation to all staff members,
employees, volunteers, students and trainees.
            5.   Serves as the contact person for the dissemination of PHI to
other health care providers;
            6.   Serves as the contact person for patient complaints and
requests;
            7.   Processes patient request for access to and amendment of
health information and consent forms;
            8.   Processes all patient accounting requests;
            9.   Ensures the capture and storage of patient PHI for the minimum
period required by law;
            10.   Ensures compliance with all applicable privacy rule
requirements and works with legal counsel and other managers to ensure the
company maintains appropriate privacy and confidentiality notices and forms and
materials.
            11.   Cooperates with the state and federal government agencies
charged with compliance reviews, audits and investigations.
         (b)   Qualifications.
            1.   Educational requirements.
               a.   High school diploma or GED equivalent. Four-year college
degree preferred, with a working knowledge of the privacy rule required.
               b.   Maintains current knowledge of applicable federal and state
privacy laws and monitors changes in privacy practices for the fire protection
industry to ensure current organizational compliance.
            2.   Mental requirements of the job.
               a.   Reading and writing skills required. Experience working
with the public is essential.
               b.   Demonstrated organization, facilitation, communication and
presentation skills.
            3.   Disclaimer. The information provided in this description has
been designated to indicate the general nature and level of work preformed by
incumbents within this job. It is not designed to be interpreted, as a
comprehensive inventory of all duties, responsibilities, qualifications and
working conditions required of employees, assigned to this job. Management has
sole discretion to add or modify duties of the job and to designate other
functions as essential at any time. This job description is not an employment
agreement or contract.
(Ord. 0030-03, passed 4-2-2003)
(Prior Code, Ch. 32, App. A)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Personnel
   
33.01   Positions
   
33.02   Deputy Police Chief
   
33.03   Department rules and regulations
   
33.04   Training costs reimbursement to village
   
33.05   Commander position
Residency Requirements
   
33.20   Commissioned officers
   
33.21   Police Chief
   
33.22   No residency requirement to take examination
Auxiliary Police
   
33.35   Establishment
   
33.36   Powers and duties
   
33.37   Applicability of rules of regular Police Department
   
33.38   Probationary period
   
33.39   Bylaws; rules and regulations
   
33.40   Compensation
   
33.41   Uniforms
   
33.42   Officers; election and terms
   
33.43   Financial accounts
   
33.44   Firearms
Cross-reference:
   Chaplaincy program, see §
39.060
**** POLICE PERSONNEL ****
§ 33.01 POSITIONS.
   There is created and established a Police Department consisting of a Police
Chief and such members of the Police Department as may from time to time be
authorized by the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 552, passed 9-7-1977; Ord. 878, passed 3-7-1984;
Ord. 889, passed 5-16-1984; Ord. 933, passed 9-18-1985; Ord. 1014-87, passed 9-
2-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Board of Police and Fire Commissioners, see
Chapter 35
Statutory reference:
   Board of Police and Fire Commissioners, see 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 through 10-
2.1-30
§ 33.02 DEPUTY POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The position of Deputy Police Chief is created.
   (B)   Individual police personnel from any rank of sworn, full-time officers
of the Police Department having at least five years of full-time service as a
police officer in the department shall be eligible to serve in the position of
Deputy Police Chief.
   (C)   The Chief of Police is authorized and directed to establish the duties
and responsibilities of the Deputy Police Chief.
   (D)   The Chief of Police is charged with the responsibility of preparing
standards, methods and procedures for determining the qualifications of the
police personnel eligible for the position of Deputy Police Chief.
   (E)   The Chief of Police is authorized to appoint within the Department a
maximum number of two positions of Deputy Police Chief.
   (F)   An officer appointed to the position of Deputy Chief shall be an
exempt rank immediately below that of the Chief of Police and shall serve at
the discretion of the Chief of Police. If removed from the position, the
officer shall revert to the rank held immediately prior to appointment to the
Deputy Chief position.
   (G)   Nothing herein contained is intended to otherwise alter the duty and
authority of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 491, passed 5-19-1976; Ord. 776, passed 3-4-1981;
Ord. 817, passed 2-3-1982; Ord. 878, passed 3-7-1984; Ord. 2736-00, passed 2-
16-2000)
§ 33.03 DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police, with the approval of the Village Board, shall
promulgate the rules and regulations of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Res. 242-83, passed 3-2-1983)
§ 33.04 TRAINING COSTS REIMBURSEMENT TO VILLAGE.
   New police officers hired by the village shall execute the agreement for
reimbursement of hiring and training expenses required by Ord. 915.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 915, passed 5-15-1985)
§ 33.05 COMMANDER POSITION.
   (A)   The position of Commander is created.
   (B)   Individual police personnel from any rank of full-time officers of the
Village Police Department having at least seven years of full-time service as
police officers in the Department or individual police personnel having at
least seven years of full-time service as police officers certified by the
State Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board shall be eligible to serve
in the position of Commander.
   (C)   The Chief of Police is authorized and directed to establish the duties
and responsibilities of the Commander position.
   (D)   The Chief of Police is charged with the responsibility of preparing
standards, methods and procedures for determining the qualifications of the
police personnel eligible for the position of Commander.
   (E)   An officer appointed to the position of Commander shall be an exempt
rank below that of the Chief of Police and shall serve at the discretion of the
Chief of Police. If removed from the position without termination of employment
with the village, the officer shall revert to the Village Police Department
rank held immediately prior to appointment to the Commander position. If the
officer in question did not hold a rank within the Department immediately prior
to the appointment to the Commander position, upon removal from the position
without termination of employment with the village, the officer shall revert to
the rank of patrol officer.
   (F)   Nothing herein contained is intended to otherwise alter the duty and
authority of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 09-0764, passed 5-20-2009; Ord. 20-1653, passed 8-
19-2020)
**** RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 33.20 COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.
   (A)   All commissioned police officers of the village including all officers
holding exempt ranks shall reside within such area of residency as may be
designated from time to time in the then-current collective bargaining
agreement applicable to commissioned officers of the Village Police Department
that do not hold exempt ranks.
   (B)   All probationary police officers shall be required to reside within
such area of residency as of the date on which an officer shall be
commissioned.
(Prior Code, § 33.10) (Ord. 439, passed 1-2-1975; Ord. 537, passed 7-6-1977;
Ord. 540, passed 7-20-1977; Ord. 700, passed 12-19-1979; Ord. 20-1653, passed
8-19-2020)
§ 33.21 POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief shall be a resident of the village within one year after
their appointment as Chief.
(Prior Code, § 33.11) (Ord. 439, passed 1-2-1975)
§ 33.22 NO RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT TO TAKE EXAMINATION.
   There shall be no residency requirement to be eligible to take an
examination for original appointment to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.12) (Ord. 439, passed 1-2-1975)
**** AUXILIARY POLICE ****
§ 33.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is created a police auxiliary unit, the membership of which
shall consist of not more 35 persons.
   (B)   The police auxiliary unit shall be made up of persons who reside
within 15 miles of the corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   Each member shall be in good physical condition and of good character
and not less than 21 years of age. Prior to the appointment of any auxiliary
police officer, their fingerprints shall be taken and no person shall be
appointed as such auxiliary police officer if they have been convicted of a
felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.
   (D)   Appointments to the police auxiliary unit shall be made by the Village
President on recommendation of the Chief of Police and with the approval of the
Board of Trustees, for a term of two years; provided that any member may be
discharged at any time with or without cause, following a hearing by the
President on recommendation of the Chief of Police and with the approval of the
Board of Trustees. Regular full-time members of the Police Department shall not
be eligible for membership in the auxiliary unit.
(Prior Code, § 33.20) (Ord. 307, passed 11-17-1971; Ord. 467, passed 9-17-1975)
§ 33.36 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Auxiliary police officers shall have the following powers and duties, when
properly assigned and on duty:
   (A)   To aid or direct traffic in the municipality;
   (B)   To render aid in the event of natural or human-made disaster;
   (C)   To aid in cases of civil disorder;
   (D)   To perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the Chief
of Police on those occasions when it is impractical for members of the regular
Police Department to perform normal and regular police duties;
   (E)   While on active call-out by the delegating authority to arrest or
cause to be arrested, with or without process, all persons who break the peace
or are found violating any municipal ordinance or any criminal law of the
state;
   (F)   To commit arrested persons for examinations;
   (G)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody until the earliest
possible time that they can be brought before the proper magistrate;
   (H)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
corporate authorities may prescribe; and
   (I)   To serve and execute all warrants for the violation of municipal
ordinances, or the state criminal law, within the limits of the village and for
the purpose to have all the common law and statutory power of sheriffs.
(Prior Code, § 33.22) (Ord. 307, passed 11-17-1971)
§ 33.37 APPLICABILITY OF RULES OF REGULAR POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   Auxiliary police shall be subject to the rules and regulations governing the
Police Department and be subject to the direction and control of the Chief of
Police. However, membership in the police auxiliary unit shall not constitute
membership in the regularly constituted Police Department nor shall any member
of the police auxiliary unit be entitled to the right or privilege of
compensation, pension, tenure or any other similar right or privilege of
members of the regularly constituted Police Department nor to any other
prerequisite or emolument attaching to membership in the regularly constituted
Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.23) (Ord. 307, passed 11-17-1971)
§ 33.38 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   Auxiliary police officers, prior to entering on any of their duties, shall
receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other police procedures
as shall be appropriate in the exercise of the powers conferred on them under
this code, which training and course of study shall be determined and provided
by the corporate authorities. Each new member of the police auxiliary unit
shall serve on probation a minimum of six months and a maximum of 12 months
following the date of their appointment. During the period of probation, they
shall be a member on probation and shall have only such power, authority and
duties as are assigned to them from time to time by the Chief of Police. On
completion of six months, and at any time before expiration of 12 months of
probation, the Chief of Police may transfer such member from probationary to
active status. If the Chief of Police does not transfer such member from
probationary to active status before the expiration of 12 months of probation,
such member shall be dropped automatically from membership in the police
auxiliary unit.
(Prior Code, § 33.24) (Ord. 307, passed 11-17-1971)
§ 33.39 BYLAWS; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The police auxiliary unit may adopt its own bylaws and rules and regulations
to govern its organization; providing they do not conflict with any provision
of this subchapter, and shall be subordinate at all times to the ordinances of
the village and to rules and regulations of the Police Department and to the
orders of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 33.25) (Ord. 307, passed 11-17-1971)
§ 33.40 COMPENSATION.
   No member of the police auxiliary unit shall receive any compensation from
the village for their services as a member of the police auxiliary unit
excepting as may be provided from time to time by resolution of the President
and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 33.26) (Ord. 307, passed 11-17-1971)
§ 33.41 UNIFORMS.
   The members of the police auxiliary unit shall furnish their own uniforms
and other necessary equipment, without reimbursement from the village,
excepting only to the extent, if any, specifically provided for in the annual
appropriation ordinance of the village. Identification symbols worn by such
auxiliary policemen shall be different and distinct from those used by members
of the regular Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.27) (Ord. 307, passed 11-17-1971)
§ 33.42 OFFICERS; ELECTION AND TERMS.
   The officers of the police auxiliary unit shall consist of a lieutenant,
three sergeants and such other officers as shall be provided for in the bylaws,
who shall be appointed from the nonprobationary membership of the police
auxiliary unit by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 33.28) (Ord. 307, passed 11-17-1971)
§ 33.43 FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS.
   The financial accounts of the police auxiliary unit, shall be subject to
audit May 1 of each fiscal year. Any such audit shall be made by the Village
Treasurer or other accountant or auditor appointed by the President and Board
of Trustees for this purpose. The fiscal officer of the police auxiliary unit
shall present all records and books of account of the police auxiliary unit for
audit when requested so to do by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 33.29) (Ord. 307, passed 11-17-1971)
§ 33.44 FIREARMS.
   Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms except with the
permission of the Chief of Police of this village, while engaged in the
authorized performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 33.30) (Ord. 307, passed 11-17-1971)
CHAPTER 34: VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Department of Public Works
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Director of Public Works
   
34.03   Divisions within the Department
   
34.04   Authorized positions within the divisions
   
34.05   Special licenses required
Recreation Department
   
34.20   Recreation Department
   
34.21   Romeo Shores Advisory Commission
   
34.22   Approval of use of Policy Manual
   
34.23   Approval of use of Procedures Manual
   
34.24   Comprehensive Safety Policy Manual
   
34.25   Romeoville Recreation Teen Center
   
34.26   Scholarship program
   
34.27   Background check policy
   
34.28   Equipment rental form and fee structure for use of village equipment
Health Department
   
34.40   Adoption of state statute
   
34.41   Integration of Village Health Department with County Health Department
   
34.42   Enforcement of health regulations generally
   
34.43   Enforcement officer generally
   
34.44   Jurisdiction of Board of Health
**** DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS ****
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is created a Department of Public Works, an administrative department
of the village. This Department shall consist of the Director of Public Works
and such other inspectors, assistants and employees as the President and Board
of Trustees may from time to time provide by ordinance or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 191, passed 11-5-1958)
§ 34.02 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Appointment; term; powers. There is created the Office of Director of
Public Works, an administrative office of the village. The Director of Public
Works shall be appointed by the Village Manager, with the consent of the Board
of Trustees, including the Village President, for an indefinite term. They
shall have the management and control of all matters pertaining to the
Department of Public Works.
   (B)   Bond; oath. The Director of Public Works, before entering on the
duties of their office, shall take the oath prescribed by statute and shall
furnish a surety bond in the amount of $1,000.
   (C)   Compensation. The Director of Public Works shall receive such
compensation as the President and Board of Trustees shall from time to time
provide by ordinance.
   (D)   Employees; appointment; removal. The Director of Public Works may
appoint and discipline all assistants and employees of the Department, as
provided in the personnel manual, set out in
Appendix A following
Chapter 37.
   (E)   Improvements - streets, sewers, gas, water. The Director of Public
Works shall have charge of all public improvements commenced, or to be
commenced, by the village, to regulate and control the manner of using the
streets, alleys, highways and public places of the village; the erection of
telegraph poles, or other poles or posts, signs, canopies and other overhead
structures and the laying down of gas, water, steam or other pipes, conduits
and sewers authorized by law or ordinance of the village; and to determine the
location thereof. They shall cause the prompt repair of the streets, alleys,
highways and public places whenever the same are taken up or altered.
   (F)   Other duties. The Director of Public Works shall also have charge of
all construction and maintenance of all streets, sewers, water mains and all
service pipes or private water pipes in the streets, alleys and public grounds
of the village, and of all tapping of water mains and pipes and the making of
water service connections therewith. The Commissioner of Public Works shall,
furthermore, have charge of softening plants, pumping stations, wells, tanks,
reservoirs, grounds, buildings and appurtenances thereto and the distribution
of water thereby, and shall be responsible for the efficiency of the same.
   (G)   Enforcement of ordinances. The Director of Public Works shall enforce
all ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining to the Department of Public
Works, including, but not limited to, all ordinances, rules and regulations
pertaining to the payment of bills for water.
   (H)   Records and reading of water meters.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works shall keep a complete and accurate
record of all taps inserted, their exact location, their number and size and
the length and sizes of all service pipes with the location of the shut-off
boxes. They shall direct all turning on or cutting off of water.
      (2)   The Director shall cause to be made readings of all water meters
connected with the village water system, and shall keep accurate records of
such readings. They shall in addition perform such other duties as may be
required of them by ordinance or resolution of the Board.
   (I)   Reports. The Director of Public Works shall, within the first 15 days
of each month, file with the Village Clerk their written report for the month
preceding, showing in detail all expenditures for payroll, materials and
repairs; all income from the operation of the Department; and all matters
relating to its administration.
   (J)   Books of accounts; bills; permits.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works shall keep or cause to be kept full
and complete books of account showing the exact condition of the financial
affairs of the Department. For this purpose, they shall establish a complete
and comprehensive system of bookkeeping which shall also show how much water is
supplied to each piece of property in the village and the amount charged
therefor.
      (2)   They shall also cause to be made a complete and correct map of all
watermains, connections, valves, hydrants and cutoffs, sewers and their
appurtenances, now or hereafter constructed, showing their location. At each
time a water or sewer permit is granted, the Director of Public Works shall
enter, in a book provided for that purpose, a record of the permit showing the
size of the connection, the size of the meter on water connections and the
amount of all charges and fees collected.
   (K)   Receipts and disbursements. The Director of Public Works shall control
and direct all expenditures to be made by the Department of Public Works. They
shall, before the same are presented to the Board of Trustees for approval,
certify as to the correctness of all bills and accounts.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 191, passed 11-5-1958)
§ 34.03 DIVISIONS WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT.
   The Public Works Department shall consist of the following divisions:
   (A)   Administrative Division;
   (B)   Street Division;
   (C)   Utility Division;
   (D)   Sewer Treatment Division; and
   (E)   Building and Grounds Division.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 569, passed 10-19-1977)
§ 34.04 AUTHORIZED POSITIONS WITHIN THE DIVISIONS.
   Authorized positions within the divisions of the Public Works Department
shall be as established from time to time by the Village Board.
   (A)   The Administrative Division shall consist of the following positions:
 
                                          Number of Authorized Positions
Position                                  Full-Time Part-Time
Director of Public Works                  1
Public Works Clerk                        1
Superintendent of Public Works Operations 1
Guard                                     3         1
 
   (B)   The Street Division shall consist of the following positions:
 
            Number of Authorized Positions
Position    Full-Time Part-Time
Crew Leader 1
Laborer     3
Leader      1
Guard       1         1
 
   (C)   The Utility Division shall consist of the following positions:
 
                               Number of Authorized Positions
Position                       Full-Time Part-Time
Crew Leader                    1
General Utility (Meter Reader) 1
Water and Sewer Maintenance    3
 
   (D)   The Sewage Treatment Division shall consist of the following
positions:
 
               Number of Authorized Positions
Position       Full-Time Part-Time
Plant Operator 5
Superintendent 1
 
   (E)   The Buildings and Grounds Division shall consist of the following
positions:
 
                    Number of Authorized Positions
Position            Full-Time Part-Time
Custodian           1
Crew Leader         1
Grounds Crew        4         1
Grounds Crew Leader 1
Janitor             1         1
 
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Ord. 569, passed 10-19-1977; Ord. 777, passed 3-4-1981;
Res. 437-86, passed 2-5-1986)
§ 34.05 SPECIAL LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The following positions require a Class “C” water license:
      (1)   Director Public Works;
      (2)   Superintendent of Public Work Operations; and
      (3)   Crew leader - Utility Division.
   (B)   The following position requires a Class “2” sewage treatment license:
Superintendent - Sewage Treatment Division.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 569, passed 10-19-1977)
**** RECREATION DEPARTMENT ****
§ 34.20 RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   The Recreation Department shall consist of the following positions.
Authorized positions within the Recreation Department shall be as established
from time to time by the Village Board.
Position Number Authorized
Position                  Number Authorized
Activities Supervisor     1
Administrative Aide       1
Arts and Craft Supervisor 1
Athletic Supervisor       1
Clerk/Typist              1
Recreation Leaders        2
Superintendent            1
 
(Prior Code, § 34.10) (Ord. 665, passed 1-3-1979; Ord. 949-86, passed 6-4-1986)
§ 34.21 ROMEO SHORES ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Romeo Shores Advisory Commission is created.
   (B)   The Commission will work under the auspices of the Recreation
Department.
(Prior Code, § 34.12) (Res. 928-93, passed 7-7-1993)
§ 34.22 APPROVAL OF USE OF POLICY MANUAL.
   (A)   The Policy Manual will become a part of the Recreation Department and
be updated on an as needed basis.
   (B)   The Policy Manual will be available for reference at the Recreation
Center, beginning January 3, 1994.
(Prior Code, § 34.13) (Res. 973-93, passed 12-21-1993)
§ 34.23 APPROVAL OF USE OF PROCEDURES MANUAL.
   (A)   The Procedures Manual will become a part of the Recreation Department
and be updated on an as need basis.
   (B)   The Procedures Manual will be available for reference at the
Recreation Center, beginning January 3, 1994.
(Prior Code, § 34.14) (Res. 974-93, passed 12-21-1993)
§ 34.24 COMPREHENSIVE SAFETY POLICY MANUAL.
   The Department of Recreation approves to have the Comprehensive Safety
Policy Manual available for reference of safety policy, emergency response and
emergency disaster plan for the Recreation Building.
(Prior Code, § 34.15) (Res. 1014-94, passed 4-20-1994)
§ 34.25 ROMEOVILLE RECREATION TEEN CENTER.
   (A)   The Recreation Department will select individuals to serve on a Teen
Center Renovation Committee.
   (B)   The Recreation Department will head the renovation project; oversee
all donations secured; and ensure the project will be completed.
   (C)   The Recreation Department will be responsible for the operation,
maintenance and staffing of the Center.
   (D)   Yearly passes will be sold to participants, ages 12 to 17 for usage of
the Center.
(Prior Code, § 34.16) (Res. 1040-94, passed 6-1-1994)
§ 34.26 SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.
   (A)   The scholarship program is established for youth programs and youth
athletic leagues only.
   (B)   All applicants must fill out the proper form to be eligible.
   (C)   All guidelines will be adhered to as specified in the Recreation
Department scholarship program.
(Prior Code, § 34.17) (Res. 1066-94, passed 9-21-1994)
§ 34.27 BACKGROUND CHECK POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to require background checks on
all Recreation Department employees and volunteer coaches in order to preserve
the safety and well-being of children served by the Recreation Department.
Youth organizations that utilize Recreation Department facilities shall not
permit individuals to work with children if they have demonstrated past conduct
incompatible with services to the care of children.
   (B)   Implementation.
      (1)   The Recreation Department shall review individuals’ employment/
volunteer opportunities if they violate this policy. Violators may be barred
from continued or future participation as volunteers in connection with any
Recreation Department activities, and employees shall be subject to the
disciplinary provisions applicable to village employees as set forth in this
code or as set forth in the applicable collective bargaining agreement.
      (2)   All organizations that sponsor or are in any way connected with
youth activities desiring to use Recreation Department facilities shall submit
releases authorizing the conduct of criminal background checks to the
Recreation Department covering those adult participants or volunteers of such
organizations specified below prior to utilizing facilities. Failure to submit
a full and complete set of such releases to the Recreation Department will
require the Recreation Department to revoke any and all facility usage
agreements or to bar such organizations from using the facilities. All such
usage agreements shall be deemed to incorporate this policy as if fully set
forth therein. All organizations and their employees or volunteers must provide
truthful and complete information on the release. In addition, all employment
applicants for positions with the Recreation Department shall likewise be
required to complete and submit a background check release form as a condition
of the consideration of their applications by the Recreation Department.
      (3)   (a)   The Recreation Department, in cooperation with the Police
Department, shall process all such background check releases for potential
employees/volunteers to the State Police (Information and Technology Command
Bureau of Identification) prior to offering any position to an employment
applicant, or prior to allowing any organization or volunteer or employee
thereof to utilize Recreation Department facilities.
         (b)   The release is to be used for and submitted by:
            1.   All Recreation Department staff (part-time and full-time);
            2.   All employees of organizations seeking to use Recreation
Department facilities in connection with youth activities or programs;
            3.   All volunteer head coaches or other volunteers having
principal supervisory responsibility for an organization seeking to use
Recreation Department facilities in connection with youth activities or
programs; and
            4.   All volunteer committee and commission members of
organizations seeking to use Recreation Department facilities in connection
with youth activities or programs.
      (4)   After obtaining the background check information from the State
Police, the Police Department or other law enforcement agency having
jurisdiction, Division heads will review the results of the check to determine
whether the subject thereof is eligible for employment with or to participate
as a volunteer in programs conducted upon Recreation Department facilities.
   (C)   Barrier crimes. No individuals shall be permitted to participate in or
be employed at the Recreation Department if the results of the background check
show that the person has ever been convicted of any of the following crimes,
which shall hereinafter sometimes be referred to as “barrier crimes”:
      (1)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 9 of the Criminal
Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq.;
      (2)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 10 of the Criminal
Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/10-1 et seq.;
      (3)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 11 of the Criminal
Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/11-0.1 et seq.;
      (4)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 12 of the Criminal
Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/12-1 et seq.;
      (5)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Criminal Code of 2012,
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. as a “Class X felony;”
      (6)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.;
      (7)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Cannabis Control Act, 720
ILCS 550/1 et seq., excluding convictions of §§ 4(a), 4(b) and 5(a) of such
Act, where the convictions are for the first such misdemeanor offense committed
by the individual in question;
      (8)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 18 of the Criminal
Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/18-1 et seq.;
      (9)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 19 of the Criminal
Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/19-1 et seq.;
      (10)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 20 of the Criminal
Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/20-1 et seq.; and
      (11)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 20.5 of the Criminal
Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/29D-15.1.
   (D)   All other crimes. All pending charges for barrier crimes and
convictions for other crimes revealed through the background check shall be
reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine if the individual poses a safety
risk to children involved in the program.
   (E)   Confidentiality. All persons receiving background information
regarding an individual shall maintain the confidentiality of such information
in accordance with applicable law.
   (F)   Administration. The Director of the Recreation Department shall have
the responsibility for administering and overseeing the implementation of this
policy, and to prescribe the form and content of all forms and documents
required from time to time in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 34.18) (Ord. 0032-03, passed 4-16-2003)
§ 34.28 EQUIPMENT RENTAL FORM AND FEE STRUCTURE FOR USE OF VILLAGE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All outside organizations requesting village equipment for their use
must fill out the village equipment rental form at the Recreation Department.
Only items on the form will be available for use.
   (B)   All organizations will pay the fees and/or penalties as stated on the
village equipment rental form for any equipment they request.
   (C)   All requests will be taken subject to availability.
   (D)   Any costs for repair of damages incurred after installment and prior
to return of the equipment is the responsibility of the renting organization.
   (E)   Any cost incurred for restoration or repairs to the area of
installation will be the responsibility of the renting organization.
(Prior Code, § 34.19) (Res. 10-1265, passed 10-6-2010)
**** HEALTH DEPARTMENT ****
§ 34.40 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTE.
   The village adopts the terms and provisions of state statute granting the
village the authority to integrate the Village Health Department with the
County Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 34.20) (Ord. 328, passed 10-6-1971)
Statutory reference:
   Abandonment of Village Health Department and integration with County Health
Department, see S.H.A. Ch. 111-1/2, § 20c9
§ 34.41 INTEGRATION OF VILLAGE HEALTH DEPARTMENT WITH COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be no independent health department for the village as it shall
be integrated with the County Health Department and the health and sanitation
measures of the village shall be enforced by the County Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 34.21) (Ord. 328, passed 10-6-1971)
§ 34.42 ENFORCEMENT OF HEALTH REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   The County Board of Health shall enforce all provisions of this code and
other municipal ordinances of the village pertaining to the preservation of
health and sanitation.
(Prior Code, § 34.22) (Ord. 328, passed 10-6-1971)
§ 34.43 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER GENERALLY.
   The Chief Medical Officer of the County Health Department is designated as
the enforcement officer for the provisions of this code and other municipal
ordinances of the village pertaining to the preservation of health and
sanitation.
(Prior Code, § 34.23) (Ord. 328, passed 10-6-1971)
§ 34.44 JURISDICTION OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The County Board of Health shall exercise a general supervision over the
health of the village and over all places within one-half mile of the village,
with the power and authority to use the necessary sanitary measures according
to its judgement; to prevent diseases; to abate and prevent nuisances, on both
public and private property; and to prevent the introduction or spread of
contagious diseases within its jurisdiction and to establish rules and
regulations for the sanitary welfare thereof.
(Prior Code, § 34.24) (Ord. 328, passed 10-6-1971)
CHAPTER 35: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
   
35.001   Establishment
   
35.002   Appointment of Police and Fire Chiefs
   
35.003   Secretary
   
35.004   Minimum qualifications for police officers - new appointments
   
35.005   Minimum qualifications for police officers - lateral appointments
Police and Fire Pension Boards
   
35.020   Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund
   
35.021   Board of Trustees of the Firefighters’ Pension Fund
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
35.035   Establishment
   
35.036   Membership
   
35.037   Term of office
   
35.038   Procedure
   
35.039   Powers and duties
   
35.040   Official map; land subdivision
   
35.041   Expenditures
   
35.042   Regular meetings
   
35.043   Special meetings
   
35.044   Attendance at meetings
   
35.045   Quorum
   
35.046   Officers
   
35.047   Recording Secretary
   
35.048   Committees
   
35.049   Elections and appointments
   
35.050   Order of business
   
35.051   Public hearings
   
35.052   Decisions
   
35.053   Records
   
35.054   Conflicts
Keep Romeoville Beautiful Commission
   
35.065   Creation and establishment of Keep Romeoville Beautiful Commission
   
35.066   Membership and committees; conduct of business of Keep Romeoville
Beautiful Commission
Village Fire Department Foreign Fire Tax Board
   
35.080   Creation of the Board
   
35.081   Duties of Board; rules and regulations
   
35.082   Treasurer’s duties
   
35.083   Duties of the Chief
   
35.084   Appropriations to the Board
Heritage Corridor Convention and Visitors Bureau
   
35.095   Recognition; funding
Advisory Board to the Lockport Township Park District
   
35.110   Title
   
35.111   Findings
   
35.112   Creation of the Board
   
35.113   Composition; officers and duties; committees; meetings
   
35.114   Responsibilities and powers
   
35.115   Assistance for the Recreation Department
   
35.116   Amendments
Tree Planting and Landscape Program
   
35.130   Tree Planting and Landscape Program
Downtown Development Commission
   
35.145   Ex-officio members
   
35.146   Duties and responsibilities
   
35.147   Rules and bylaws; meeting schedule and procedures
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
35.160   Regular meetings
   
35.161   Special meetings
   
35.162   Attendance at meetings
   
35.163   Quorum
   
35.164   Officers
   
35.165   Recording Secretary
   
35.166   Committees
   
35.167   Elections and appointments
   
35.168   Order of business
   
35.169   Procedures of hearings
   
35.170   Decisions
   
35.171   Records
   
35.172   Amendments
Veteran’s Commission
   
35.185   Establishment; purpose
   
35.186   Member; term
   
35.187   Meetings
Special Events Commission
   
35.200   Establishment; purpose
   
35.201   Membership; terms
   
35.202   Meetings
Conservation and Sustainability Committee
   
35.215   Establishment; purpose
   
35.216   Membership; terms
   
35.217   Meetings
   
35.218   Sustainability challenge
**** BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS ****
§ 35.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to Article 10, Division 2.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code
(65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.), there has heretofore been established a Board of
Fire and Police Commissioners to carry out the duties and responsibilities set
forth therein, which Board shall continue to exist and carry out such duties
and responsibilities in accordance with said Article 10, Division 2.1 of the
Illinois Municipal Code; provided, however, that the membership of the Board
shall consist of five commissioners, all of whom shall serve a term of three
years from their appointment and qualification. Nothing herein shall be
construed to in any way affect the term or office of any Commissioner holding
office as of the date of the adoption of the ordinance incorporated in this
section.
   (B)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall further carry out and
conduct its business in accordance with its adopted rules and regulations
incorporated herein by reference and in accordance with this code. All actions
heretofore taken by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners in accordance
therewith are ratified and confirmed in all respects by the corporate
authorities of the village. Fire and Police Commissioners shall, from and after
May 1, 2024, be entitled to an annual stipend in the amount of $1,000; provided
further, however, that the Chair of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
shall, from and after such date, receive an annual stipend of $1,800, and the
Secretary of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall from and after
such date receive an annual stipend of $3,600.
   (C)   Such stipends shall be payable on a quarterly basis, in February, May,
August and November of each year, and shall be in lieu of any other form of
compensation or expense reimbursement.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 05-0267, passed 4-6-2005; Ord. 11-0938, passed 11-
2-2011; Ord. 15-1233, passed 11-18-2015; Ord. 24-1912, passed 5-1-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, see 65 ILCS 5/10-2.l-l et seq.
§ 35.002 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE AND FIRE CHIEFS.
   The Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed
by the President of the village with the consent of the Village Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 221, passed 10-2-1963)
§ 35.003 SECRETARY.
   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall designate one of its own
members to serve as secretary during the term of such member’s appointment, or
until such time as a successor member of the Board shall be appointed by the
Board to serve in such capacity.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 221, passed 10-2-1963; Ord. 24-1912, passed 5-1-
2024)
§ 35.004 MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR POLICE OFFICERS - NEW APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Police and Fire Commissioners is authorized to adopt
further rules and regulations requiring candidates for new or initial
appointment to the position of police officer in and for the village to possess
at least one of the minimum qualifications set forth below:
      (1)   Satisfaction of all applicable requirements established from time
to time by the State Law Enforcement Training Standards Board (“ILETSB”);
      (2)   Certification as a police officer having successfully completed the
minimum standards basic law enforcement training course as required by the
Illinois Police Training Act, 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.; or
      (3)   In lieu of the criteria set forth above, not less than 24 months in
the active service of the United States military, and an honorable discharge
from such service, or in lieu of an honorable discharge, current service in an
active or inactive reserve capacity.
   (B)   The Board of Police and Fire Commissioners shall further be authorized
from time to time to adopt additional rules and regulations prescribing other
and further qualifications for new or initial appointment to the position of
police officer which are not inconsistent with the foregoing requirements, and
provided further that no such rules and regulations shall have the effect of
reducing the qualifications for new or additional appointment to the position
of police officer below the minimum requirements from time to time established
by the ILETSB.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 09-0767, passed 5-20-2009; Ord. 21-1698, passed 4-
21-2021; Ord. 21-1721, passed 9-1-2021)
§ 35.005 MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR POLICE OFFICERS - LATERAL APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Fire and Police Commissioners may, as needed,
appoint lateral transfer sworn officers from other law enforcement agencies in
the state, including municipal police departments, county sheriffs departments
and the State Police, all in accordance with the requirements of Article 10,
Division 2.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.).
   (B)   The Village Manager may advise the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners that a need for lateral transfer applicants has been identified
within the Village Police Department, and request the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners to solicit and call for lateral transfer applicants for sworn
officer positions within the Village Police Department.
   (C)   All lateral transfer applicants for sworn officer positions within the
Village Police Department shall possess the following minimum requirements, in
addition to such other requirements as may be established by the Board of Fire
and Police Commissioners, this code and the provisions of Article 10, Division
2.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code:
      (1)   State law enforcement certification from the State Law Enforcement
Training and Standards Board as a law enforcement officer (part-time
certification as a law enforcement officer does not meet this requirement);
      (2)   A minimum of two years of experience as a full-time sworn law
enforcement officer of a municipal police department, a county sheriffs
department or the State Police, and employed for one year since completion of a
probationary period;
      (3)   Currently in good standing in the Police Department in which the
lateral transfer applicant presently serves; and
      (4)   Such knowledge, skills abilities and level of experience as are
required by the call for lateral transfer applicants.
   (D)   The Board of Police and Fire Commissioners shall further be authorized
to adopt further rules and regulations consistent with this section and with
Article 10, Division 2.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code to establish and create
a lateral transfer application program.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 21-1698, passed 4-21-2021)
**** POLICE AND FIRE PENSION BOARDS ****
§ 35.020 BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE POLICE PENSION FUND.
   Pursuant to the provisions of 40 ILCS 5/3-128 and §§
37.001 through
37.003, there has heretofore been established the Board of Trustees of the
Police Pension Fund of the village. In accordance with 40 ILCS 5/3-128, two of
the Trustees of such Board shall be appointed by the Village President, and
three of the trustees shall be elected from among the active participants and
beneficiaries of the Police Pension Fund as more fully set forth therein. One
of the Trustees appointed by the Village President shall serve a term of one
year commencing on the second Tuesday in May 2013 and until a successor is
appointed and qualified, and the other trustee appointed by the Village
President shall serve a term of two years commencing on the second Tuesday in
May 2013 and until a successor is appointed and qualified; thereafter,
successor trustees appointed by the Village President shall serve terms of two
years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Trustees
appointed by the Village President and in office as of the adoption of this
section shall continue their terms in office until such time as their
successors shall have been appointed and qualified pursuant to this section.
The election and terms of office of all other trustees shall be in accordance
with the provisions of 40 ILCS 5/3-128.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) (Ord. 12-1006, passed 9-5-2012)
§ 35.021 BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION FUND.
   Pursuant to the provisions of 40 ILCS 5/4-121 and §
32.004, there has heretofore been established the Board of Trustees of the
Firefighters’ Pension Fund of the village. In accordance with 40 ILCS 5/4-121,
two of the trustees of such board shall be appointed by the Village President,
and three of the trustees shall be elected from among the active participants
and firefighters retired from the Firefighters Pension Fund as more fully set
forth therein. One of the Trustees appointed by the Village President shall
serve a term of two years commencing on May 1, 2013 and until a successor is
appointed and qualified, and the other trustee appointed by the Village
President shall serve a term of three years commencing on May 1, 2013 and until
a successor is appointed and qualified; thereafter, successor trustees
appointed by the Village President shall serve terms of three years and until
their successors are appointed and qualified. Trustees appointed by the Village
President and in office as of the adoption of this section shall continue their
terms in office until such time as their successors shall have been appointed
and qualified pursuant to this section. The election and terms of office of all
other trustees shall be in accordance with the provisions of 40 ILCS 5/4-121.
(Prior Code, § 35.20) (Ord. 12-1006, passed 9-5-2012)
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 35.035 ESTABLISHMENT.
   In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive village plan for the guidance, direction and control of the
growth and development or redevelopment of the village and contiguous territory
not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits and not
included in any municipality, a Planning and Zoning Commission is created
pursuant to state statute.
(Prior Code, § 35.40) (Ord. 269, passed 11-20-1968; Ord. 429, passed 11-20-
1974; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to create Plan Commissions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4
§ 35.036 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of seven members,
citizens of the village, appointed by the President, on the basis of their
particular fitness for their duty on the Planning and Zoning Commission and
subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   There is established an association membership for the Planning and
Zoning Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Associate members shall be appointed by the Village President, with
the concurrence of the Village Board.
      (2)   Associate members shall not have voting powers on either the
Planning and Zoning Commission nor the Zoning Board of Appeals, but may
participate fully in all other matters pertaining to the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (3)   There shall be no limitation as to the number of associate members
which may be so named, nor any term of office applied to their position; and
they shall serve at the pleasure of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 35.41) (Ord. 269, passed 11-20-1968; Ord. 429, passed 11-20-
1974; Res. 516-87, passed 5-20-1987; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-2012)
§ 35.037 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Of the seven members, four shall serve for a period of two years, three for
a period of one year. Thereafter, such members shall serve for a period of two
years. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the Village President with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees for the balance of unexpired
terms only.
(Prior Code, § 35.42) (Ord. 269, passed 11-20-1968; Ord. 429, passed 11-20-
1974; Ord. 11-0938, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-2012)
§ 35.038 PROCEDURE.
   Immediately following their appointment, the members of the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem
necessary and adopt and later change or alter, rules and regulations of
organization and procedure consistent with village ordinances and state laws.
The Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be
open at all times to public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 35.43) (Ord. 269, passed 11-20-1968; Ord. 429, passed 11-20-
1974; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-2012)
§ 35.039 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board of Trustees, a
comprehensive plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of
the village and contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-
half miles beyond the corporate limits of the village and not included in any
other municipality. Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate
geographical or functional parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the
official comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of the village. Such plan shall
be advisory except as to such part thereof as has been implemented by
ordinances duly enacted by the Board of Trustees. All requirements for public
hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the County Recorder of Deeds and
filing of the plan and ordinances with the Village Clerk shall be complied with
as provided for by law. In order to provide for the health, safely, comfort and
convenience of the inhabitants of the village and contiguous territory, such
plan may be implemented by ordinances establishing reasonable standards of
design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas
subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements as herein defined:
establishing reasonable requirements governing the location, width, course and
surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public service
facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks, playgrounds,
school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes, storm water
drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection
and treatment; and designating land suitable for annexation to the village and
the recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation;
   (B)   To recommend to Village Board of Trustees from time to time such
changes in the official comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, as may be
deemed necessary;
   (C)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees from time to time
plans or recommendations, or both, for specific improvements in pursuance of
the official comprehensive plan;
   (D)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, or parts
thereof, to further the making of such projects for improvements, and generally
to promote the realization of the official comprehensive plan;
   (E)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (F)   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area;
   (G)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of state statute as may be conferred by the Village Board of
Trustees; and
   (H)   To review plans, conduct public hearings and make recommendations on
any applications or changes requested or required under Chapter 155, Chapter
156, Chapter 157, Chapter 57 and as otherwise required by any chapter of the
village code.
(Prior Code, § 35.44) (Ord. 269, passed 11-20-1968; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.040 OFFICIAL MAP; LAND SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   (1)   At any time or times, before or after the adoption of the
official comprehensive plan by the Board of Trustees, the Board may designate
by ordinance an official map, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the official comprehensive plan, or one or more separate geographical or
functional parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of
the village.
      (2)   All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption
with the County Recorder of Deeds and filing of the plan and ordinances,
including the official map, with the Village Clerk shall be complied with as
provided for by law.
   (B)   No map or plat of any subdivision or resubdivision presented for
record affecting land within the corporate limits of the village or within
contiguous territory which is not more than one and one-half miles beyond the
corporate limits shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivision shown thereon provides for standards of design and standards
governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service facilities,
street lights, public grounds, size of lots to be used for residential
purposes, storm and flood water run-off channels and basins, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection and treatment in conformity
with the applicable requirements of the ordinances, including the official map.
(Prior Code, § 35.45) (Ord. 269, passed 11-20-1968; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.041 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Commission may, at the discretion of the Board of Trustees, employ
a paid secretary or staff, or both, whose salaries, wages and other necessary
expenses, shall be provided for by the village from the public funds.
   (B)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission shall deem it advisable to
secure technical advice or services, it may be done on authority and
appropriations from the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 35.46) (Ord. 269, passed 11-20-1968; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.042 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet in regular session on the second and fourth
Tuesdays of each month except as otherwise modified by the annually published
schedule. Notice of all regular meetings of the Commission shall be provided by
posting a copy of the meeting agenda at Village Hall, on the village website
and at the location of the meeting when such location is other than Village
Hall, not less than 48 hours before the start of the meeting.
   (B)   All regular meetings shall be held at 7:00 p.m. at the Village Hall
unless the Commission indicates otherwise by posting a notice as required by
law. Notice shall be given to all requesting news media.
   (C)   Adjourned regular meetings of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
be held at such time and place as may be fixed in the resolution of
adjournment. Except as otherwise provided in the resolution of adjournment,
adjourned meetings shall be held at the Village Hall. No change in the agenda
shall be permitted. No additional notice need be provided of such meetings so
long as proper notice of such meetings was originally provided, and a definite
time, date and location of the adjourned meeting is publicly announced at the
original meeting.
(Prior Code, § 35.47) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 05-0353, passed 12-21-
2005; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-2012)
§ 35.043 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Commission may be called by the Chair and held
at any reasonable time or place fixed in the call, subject to applicable law.
Notice of all special meetings of the Commission shall be provided by posting a
copy of the meeting agenda at Village Hall, on the village website and at the
location of the meeting when such location is other than Village Hall, not less
than 48 hours before the start of the meeting (excluding special meetings held
in the event of a bona fide emergency). Notice shall be given to all requesting
news media as required by law. No matters not listed on a special meeting
agenda shall be considered at any special meeting.
   (B)   The Chair shall call a special meeting of the Commission at the
request, in writing, of any four or more members of the Commission, and if the
Chair shall fail to comply with such request, said members so requesting may
call such meeting, all signing the notice.
   (C)   Adjourned special meetings of the Commission shall be held at such
time and place as may be fixed in the resolution of adjournment. Except as
otherwise provided in the resolution of adjournment, adjourned meetings shall
be held at the Village Hall. No change in the agenda shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 35.48) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
012)
§ 35.044 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   In order to provide continuity of thought and action, it shall be a
requirement of all members to attend all meetings, both regular and special, of
this Commission.
   (B)   Any member unable to attend a regular or special meeting of the
Commission shall notify the Chair or Director of Community Development of the
village of such inability in advance of such meeting.
(Prior Code, § 35.49) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.045 QUORUM.
   (A)   Four members of this Commission shall be necessary to constitute a
quorum for the transaction of any business, except that less than a quorum of
members may meet and adjourn from time to time until a quorum is present.
   (B)   The affirmative vote of a majority of the members present,
constituting a quorum, shall be required for the exercise of powers or
functions conferred or imposed upon the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 35.50) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.046 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the Commission shall consist of a Chair and a Vice-
Chair.
   (B)   The Chair shall have the following powers and duties.
      (1)   The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the Commission.
      (2)   The Chair shall have general charge of the business of the
Commission.
      (3)   The Chair shall vote on all matters which are voted upon by the
Commission.
      (4)   The Chair shall, when authorized by the Commission and ordinances
of the village, execute in its name all contracts and other obligations.
      (5)   The Chair shall appoint all members to ad hoc committees as defined
in §
35.048.
      (6)   The Chair shall have general supervision of the conduct of the
affairs of the Commission and of employees thereof.
      (7)   The Chair shall perform other such duties as are usually exercised
by the Chair of the Commission or the president or chief of a corporation.
   (C)   The Vice-Chair shall have the following powers and duties.
      (1)   The Vice-Chair shall perform the duties of the Chair during the
absence or disability of the Chair.
      (2)   The Vice-Chair shall have such other powers and duties as the Chair
shall from time to time delegate.
      (3)   The Vice-Chair shall vote on all matters which are voted upon by
the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 35.51) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.047 RECORDING SECRETARY.
   The Recording Secretary shall have the following duties: to attend all
regular and designated special meetings, and keep a record of the same and
transcribe properly in the minute book of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 35.52) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.048 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Ad hoc committees may be appointed from time to time by the Chair as
deemed necessary by the Commission.
   (B)   All committee appointments shall be made by the Chair of the
Commission. The committee chair shall be elected by the committee members upon
convening of the first meeting or upon changing of committee assignments.
   (C)   The Chair of the Commission shall be an ex-officio member of all
committees.
   (D)   The chair of the committee may appoint advisory members to their
committee whenever it may be advisable, or whenever such a member has talent,
information or experience bearing upon issues before such committee.
   (E)   All reports of the committee shall be submitted in writing to the
Commission in a timely manner. All members of the committee shall sign the
report in two areas; once to agree or disagree with the findings of the report,
and once to agree with the accuracy of the report. Those disagreeing with the
findings of the report may submit a minority opinion with the report.
(Prior Code, § 35.53) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.049 ELECTIONS AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Chair of the Commission shall be appointed by the Village
President in accordance with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   The Vice-Chair of the Commission shall be elected by the Commission at
the first regular meeting in October of each year and shall serve for one year
or until a successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   Any vacancy in the Office of the Vice-Chair shall be filled by vote of
the Commission at a regular meeting.
   (D)   The Chair shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the
Commission, a recording secretary who need not be a member of the Commission
and who shall not be considered an officer of the Commission.
   (E)   In the event that the Chair and Vice-Chair of the Commission shall be
absent or unable for any reason to attend to the duties of the Chair, the most
senior member of the Commission shall serve as Chair Pro Tempore and attend to
all the duties of such office until the Chair shall be able to attend to such
duties.
(Prior Code, § 35.54) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.050 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of the business at regular meetings of the Commission shall
be:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of agenda;
      (4)   Approval of minutes;
      (5)   Public hearings;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Old business;
      (8)   Citizens to be heard;
      (9)   Chair’s report;
      (10)   Commissioners’s reports;
      (11)   Village Board liaison report;
      (12)   Community Development Department report; and
      (13)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The order of business at special meetings of the Commission shall be
as designated by the Chair.
(Prior Code, § 35.55) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.051 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   For any public hearing conducted by the Commission, the following provisions
shall apply.
   (A)   Public hearing notice and notification.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator or their designee shall publish a “notice
of public hearing” on any application for which it is required under any
applicable provision of this code, and cause the placement of such public
hearing as an item on the agenda of the public body of the village conducting
the hearing at issue.
      (2)   Said notice shall include the following information:
         (a)   Date, time and location where the hearing is to be held;
         (b)   An identifiable common address of the parcel and the property
index number (PIN) of the parcel. If no common address is available, a legal
description must be provided;
         (c)   The present zoning of the parcel and a brief statement of the
intended action being applied for; and
         (d)   The address and telephone number where copies of the
application, plans and proposals may be reviewed or obtained.
      (3)   Notice shall be published at least 15 days, but not more than 30
days, prior to the hearing in a paper of general circulation within the
village.
      (4)   Notice shall be mailed at least 15 days, but not more than 30 days,
prior to the hearing to all of the property owners within 250 feet of the
parcel, excluding public rights-of-way, by certified mail, return receipt
requested. When the application includes the annexation of territory to the
village, notice shall be mailed to all of the taxing bodies of the parcel to be
annexed.
      (5)   Public notice of the agenda for the meeting of the Commission at
which the hearing is to be conducted shall also be posted at the Village Hall
and/or other location where the meeting and hearing are to be conducted and the
village website not less than 48 hours prior to the conduct of the meeting and
hearing in question.
      (6)   At least 15 days, but not more than 30 days, prior to the hearing a
sign shall be posted on the parcel, viewable from the public right-of-way,
indicating that the parcel is subject to a public hearing. Such sign shall
remain on the property until the hearing, and any continuances thereof, is
concluded. In the event that the parcel does not front a public right-of-way or
that the application covers multiple parcels, the Zoning Administrator may post
additional signs as required to provide reasonable notice of the hearing to the
public.
      (7)   In the event that a public hearing for which notice has been
properly provided in accordance with the above requirements is to be continued
or is to be reconvened at a future date, no additional notice of the
continuance or reconvening of the public hearing shall be required as long as
the continuance or reconvening of the public hearing in question is to a date
and time certain that was publicly announced during the original opening or
convening of the public hearing in question.
   (B)   Rules of procedure for public hearings.
      (1)   Registration of public participants. Anyone who wishes to speak or
testify at the public hearing must sign-in prior to the commencement of the
public hearing on the sign-up cards or sheets available at the front door of
the meeting room. Speakers shall provide name and address information, and
indicate the topic or topics that they desire to address.
      (2)   Conduct of hearing.
         (a)   1.   The Chair may impose reasonable limitations on evidence or
testimony presented by persons and parties, such as barring repetitious,
irrelevant or immaterial testimony. Each individual (other than an applicant)
shall have ten minutes to present their testimony. The meeting or hearing shall
not be governed by strict rules of evidence; however, irrelevant, immaterial or
unduly repetitious evidence shall not be admissible or taken. The Chair shall
rule on all questions related to the admissibility or materiality of evidence
which ruling may be overruled by a majority vote of the members of the body or
board present.
            2.   The Chair may impose reasonable conditions on the hearing
process and grant additional time for evidence and testimony based on the
following factors:
               a.   The complexity of the issue;
               b.   Whether the witness possesses special expertise;
               c.   Whether the testimony reflects a matter of taste or
personal opinion or concerns a disputed issue of fact;
               d.   The degree to which the witness’ testimony relates to the
factors to be considered in approving or denying the proposal; and
               e.   Such other factors as are appropriate for the hearing.
         (b)   The Chair may take such actions as are required to maintain an
orderly and civil hearing. Discourtesy or disorderly conduct shall be deemed a
breach of order, and such misconduct shall be dealt with as appropriate,
including, but not limited to, expulsion from the hearing. All persons
presenting evidence or testimony, or who are otherwise participating in the
hearing shall first be recognized by the Chair prior to proceeding, and shall
either direct their remarks to the Chair, the public body or direct their
questions to a witness, as the case may be, and shall refrain from engaging in
colloquy or debate with members of the audience. Likewise, all members of the
audience not engaged in presenting testimony or evidence or otherwise
recognized by the Chair to speak shall refrain from colloquy, debate or
exclamation until such time as they may be so engaged or recognized.
         (c)   All persons offering testimony at a public hearing shall testify
under oath. People participating shall identity themselves for the record,
giving their name and address, either orally or in writing, and indicate if an
attorney represents them.
         (d)   The order of presentation of evidence at a public hearing or
meeting shall generally be as follows, but may be modified as determined
appropriate by the Chair:
            1.   Identification of applicant;
            2.   Statement of the Chair or designee regarding the nature of the
case, relief sought;
            3.   Submittal of proof of notice;
            4.   Introduction of application by village staff;
            5.   Presentation of evidence and testimony by applicant;
            6.   Review of application and comment by village staff or
consultants;
            7.   Questions regarding application by village elected or
appointed officials;
            8.   Questions and comments regarding application by members of
public;
            9.   Presentation of testimony and evidence by others relating to
the application;
            10.   Questions by village elected or appointed officials or
applicant regarding testimony and evidence by others;
            11.   Applicant response to questions and comments;
            12.   In some cases, re-examination may be allowed by the Chair;
however re-examination shall be limited to the scope of matters raised on
cross- examination; and
            13.   At any point in the proceedings, the Chair or other village
elected or appointed officials may call upon witnesses who have not previously
testified, such as village staff and village consultants. The elected or
appointed officials, staff and consultants of the village may ask questions at
any time during the hearing or meeting.
         (e)   At the conclusion of an evidentiary portion of a public hearing,
the Chair or body present may move to close the public hearing, move to
deliberate on the evidence presented or move to continue the hearing to a date
time and location certain.
(Prior Code, § 35.56) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.052 DECISIONS.
   (A)   The Commission shall conduct its deliberations and vote on all matters
in public session at the meeting in which evidence is concluded unless the
Commission considers additional time for deliberation necessary.
   (B)   All decisions of the Commission shall be made at a public meeting by
motion made and seconded, and by the recording secretary polling the membership
by a roll call vote. The Community Development Department shall prepare a
Planning and Zoning Commission report for submission to the Village Board which
states the findings of fact upon which the decision was based.
   (C)   Notice of the recommendation of the Commission shall be given to the
applicant and other interested parties as soon as possible after the decision
is reached.
(Prior Code, § 35.57) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.053 RECORDS.
   (A)   A file of materials and decisions relating to each case shall be kept
by the Community Development Department as part of the records of the
Commission as set forth by the laws of the state.
   (B)   The Community Development Department, under the discretion and
supervision of the Chair, shall maintain all books, papers and records of the
Commission and shall attend to all correspondence of the Commission.
   (C)   All records of the Commission shall be of public record.
(Prior Code, § 35.58) (Res. 76-01, passed 5-6-2001; Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-
2012)
§ 35.054 CONFLICTS.
   In the event of any conflicts between the provisions of §§
35.035 through
35.053 and the provisions of
Chapter 157, the provisions of
Chapter 157 shall control over any contrary provision of §§
35.035 to
35.053.
(Prior Code, § 35.59) (Ord. 12-0975, passed 4-4-2012)
**** KEEP ROMEOVILLE BEAUTIFUL COMMISSION ****
§ 35.065 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF KEEP ROMEOVILLE BEAUTIFUL COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is created and established an advisory commission of the village
to be known as the Keep Romeoville Beautiful Commission.
   (B)   The Keep Romeoville Beautiful Commission shall maintain affiliation
with the Keep America Beautiful, Inc. national organization and support its
efforts.
   (C)   The Keep Romeoville Beautiful Commission shall further be charged with
the responsibility to investigate, formulate, plan and recommend measures and
programs relating to the promotion of the village as a clean, green and
beautiful place to live, including measures and programs designed to educate
and encourage the public to prevent litter, reduce waste, increase recycling
and protect the natural environment within the village.
   (D)   The Village President may from time to time appoint a Village Trustee
to serve as a liaison between the Keep Romeoville Beautiful Commission and the
Village Board of Trustees, and to advise the Village Board of Trustees from
time to time as necessary or advisable as to the proceedings and activities of
the Keep Romeoville Beautiful Commission.
(Prior Code, § 35.65) (Ord. 21-1707, passed 5-19-2021)
§ 35.066 MEMBERSHIP AND COMMITTEES; CONDUCT OF BUSINESS OF KEEP ROMEOVILLE
BEAUTIFUL COMMISSION.
   The Keep Romeoville Beautiful Commission shall have such membership and
committees as are set forth from time to time in the bylaws of the Keep
Romeoville Beautiful Commission. The bylaws shall also govern the meetings and
conduct of the business of the Keep Romeoville Beautiful Commission.
(Prior Code, § 35.66) (Ord. 21-1707, passed 5-19-2021)
**** VILLAGE FIRE DEPARTMENT FOREIGN FIRE TAX BOARD ****
§ 35.080 CREATION OF THE BOARD.
   There is created within the village a Village Fire Department Foreign Fire
Tax Board. The Board shall consist of seven Trustees, one of whom shall be the
Fire Chief, who shall hold office by virtue of rank, and the other six of whom
shall be elected at-large by the sworn members of the Department. All members
of the Department shall be eligible to be elected to serve on the Board. If
insufficient candidates exist to fill all these positions, the number of
trustees on the Board may be reduced to not less than three members. The
members of the Board shall annually elect officers, who shall be a Chair of the
Board and a Board Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 35.120) (Ord. 2583-98, passed 7-1-1998; Ord. 2618-98, passed 12-
16-1998; Ord. 04-136, passed 3-17-2004; Ord. 10-0857, passed 5-5-2010)
§ 35.081 DUTIES OF BOARD; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board shall be responsible to make all necessary rules and regulations
with respect to the conduct of its business (including, but not limited to,
Board bylaws), the management of all funds paid to the Board and the
expenditure of such funds for the maintenance, use and benefit of the village
Fire Department, all as may be not inconsistent with the provisions of 65 ILCS
5/11-10-2 and the applicable provisions of this code. The Board shall further,
from time to time, compile lists of items felt by the Board to be appropriate
potential expenditures under the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-10-2.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, no potential expenditure
shall be deemed to be for the benefit of the Department in the event that such
expenditure or the object thereof does not comply with all applicable laws of
the state, and all applicable ordinances, resolutions, policies and
requirements of the village.
(Prior Code, § 35.121) (Ord. 2583-1998, passed 7-1-1998; Ord. 2618-98, passed
12-16-1998; Ord. 04-136, passed 3-17-2004; Ord. 10-0857, passed 5-5-2010)
§ 35.082 TREASURER’S DUTIES.
   Notwithstanding any other duties which may be entrusted to the Board
Treasurer under this subchapter or by applicable law, the Board Treasurer shall
be responsible for receiving all monies paid or appropriated to the Board from
time to time, and for paying out such monies in accordance with the orders of
the Board. To secure the faithful performance of these duties, the Board
Treasurer shall be required to provide to the village with a bond in an amount
approved by the Village President, to be conditioned on the Board Treasurer’s
faithful performance of all duties which may be entrusted to them from time to
time and which shall indemnify the village and the Board from all loss caused
to the village or the Board by the negligence or willful misconduct of the
Board Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 35.124) (Ord. 2583-98, passed 7-1-1998; Ord. 2618-98, passed 12-
16-1998)
§ 35.083 DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   In addition to any other duties which may be entrusted to the Chief in their
capacity as a member of the Board by this subchapter or by applicable law, the
Chief shall serve as a liaison between the Board and the President and Board of
Trustees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 35.125) (Ord. 2583-98, passed 7-1-1998; Ord. 2618-98, passed 12-
16-1998)
§ 35.084 APPROPRIATIONS TO THE BOARD.
   The President and Village Board of Trustees shall annually appropriate to
the Board all sums of money paid to the Village Treasurer in accordance with 65
ILCS 5/11-10-1, and Ord. 2583-98 recognizing that the State Municipal League
must submit all sums of money to the village annually by November 1, the
President and Village Board of Trustees shall forward these funds to the Board
annually by November 7 upon verification of amount. The method of payment to
the Board will be either submitting the received check directly to the Board or
by a village check. The Village Treasurer shall also submit any other paperwork
that is received from the State Municipal League to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 35.126) (Ord. 2583-98, passed 7-1-1998; Ord. 2618-98, passed 12-
16-1998)
**** HERITAGE CORRIDOR CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU ****
§ 35.095 RECOGNITION; FUNDING.
   (A)   Recognition. The Village Board recognizes the Heritage Corridor
Convention and Visitors Bureau as the official agency to promote convention and
tourism business on behalf of the village.
   (B)   Funding. The village authorizes the Heritage Corridor Convention and
Visitors Bureau to receive any funding for the purpose of promoting convention
and tourism business which may be made available.
(Prior Code, § 35.130) (Res. 0006-02, passed 2-20-2002)
**** ADVISORY BOARD TO THE LOCKPORT TOWNSHIP PARK DISTRICT ****
§ 35.110 TITLE.
   The name of this organization shall be known and cited as the Village
Advisory Board to the Lockport Township Park District.
(Prior Code, § 35.135) (Res. 0031-02, passed 4-3-2002)
§ 35.111 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Village President and the Village Board of Trustees finds that the
Lockport Township Park District is an integral part of the development of
recreational opportunities for village residents.
   (B)   The Board will assist the Recreation Department and the village
residents in responding to recreational needs and will establish
recommendations that lead to long-term planning or recreational opportunities
for village residents within the Lockport Township Park District.
   (C)   A partnership between the Lockport Township Park District, the village
and the Recreation Department can provide assistance to each other such as
planning, tracking leisure trends, marketing and cooperative programming.
   (D)   The Board will create a better working relationship between the
village and the Lockport Township Park District, which will benefit the
residents of the village.
   (E)   This Board is only an advisory board and can only make recommendations
to the Lockport Township Park District.
(Prior Code, § 35.136) (Res. 0031-02, passed 4-3-2002)
§ 35.112 CREATION OF THE BOARD.
   This Board is created within the village. The Board is charged with the
responsibility of advising and recommending long-term goals, strategies and
planning of leisure facilities and programs to the Lockport Township Park
District on behalf of the village residents within the Lockport Township Park
District.
(Prior Code, § 35.137) (Res. 0031-02, passed 4-3-2002)
§ 35.113 COMPOSITION; OFFICERS AND DUTIES; COMMITTEES; MEETINGS.
   (A)   Composition.
      (1)   (a)   The Board shall be composed of citizens of the village who
reside in the Lockport Township Park District.
         (b)   The Board shall be composed of the following persons:
            1.   The Director of Parks and Recreation or their designee. The
Director shall act as a liaison between the Board, the Village Board,
Recreation Department and the Lockport Township Park District;
            2.   Eight at-large members, citizens of the village who reside in
the Lockport Township Park District;
            3.   A Village Trustee liaison; and
            4.   Two representatives from the Lockport Township Park District
as assigned by the Executive Director of the Lockport Township Park District.
      (2)   The Village President shall appoint the members of the Board
specified in division (A)(2)(b)2. above, subject to advice and consent of the
Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held every other month at a date and time
to be determined.
   (C)   Terms. Members shall serve a one-year term from June 1 through May 31
of the following year. If a vacancy occurs, the membership will recommend a
replacement to the Village President within 60 days of the vacancy.
   (D)   Officers and duties.
      (1)   Chair. The membership shall choose one member to serve in this
position. The Chair shall preside over all meetings as well as provide an
agenda.
      (2)   Secretary. The membership shall choose one member to serve in this
position. This person shall maintain a record of all meetings, attendance and
other items as deemed necessary.
   (E)   Committees. Committees shall be established as deemed necessary by the
consent of the membership. Upon establishment, the Chair shall define the
powers and duties of the committees. Committees can be dissolved once their
specific task has been completed.
   (F)   Meeting attendance. All members of the Board are required to attend
all regularly scheduled meetings. Any member who fails to attend three
regularly scheduled meetings in any one calendar year, without being excused by
the Chair, shall, upon consent of the membership, be recommended to the Village
President and the Board of Trustees for removal from the Board.
      (1)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held six
times per year: January, March, May, July, September and November.
      (2)   Special meetings. The Chair may call special meetings of the Board.
At least one weeks’ notice shall be required for any special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 35.138) (Res. 0031-02, passed 4-3-2002; Res. 0107-02, passed 8-
7-2002; Ord. 05-0353, passed 12-21-2005)
§ 35.114 RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS.
   The Board shall have the following responsibilities and powers under this
section:
   (A)   This Board is strictly advisory; consequently, there will be no voting
issues within the membership;
   (B)   To give recommendations to the Lockport Township Park District on
behalf of the residents of the village regarding recreational programming and
facility needs within the village;
   (C)   Study and research the needs of all Lockport Township Park District
residents who reside in the village regarding recreational opportunities and
facilities;
   (D)   Work with the Lockport Township Park District in establishing long-
term goals for facility improvement and program planning within the village;
and
   (E)   Conduct an annual joint planning meeting with the Lockport Township
Park District and the citizens advisory group.
(Prior Code, § 35.139) (Res. 0031-02, passed 4-3-2002)
§ 35.115 ASSISTANCE FOR THE RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   The Village Recreation Department and staff will assist the Board in its
functions as it deems necessary in order to carry out its’ duties and
responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 35.140) (Res. 0031-02, passed 4-3-2002)
§ 35.116 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The bylaws within this subchapter may be amended by a majority vote of
the members present and voting at the meeting immediately following the meeting
(next month) at which the amendment was formally proposed. All Board members
shall be notified by mail of the proposed amendments at least ten days prior to
the meeting at which the final vote of the amendment shall be called.
   (B)   A recommendation upon the amendment in a report format shall be
forwarded to the Village President and the Village Board of Trustees within 30
days for final adoption under a resolution.
(Prior Code, § 35.141) (Res. 0031-02, passed 4-3-2002)
**** TREE PLANTING AND LANDSCAPE PROGRAM ****
§ 35.130 TREE PLANTING AND LANDSCAPE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Creation of tree planting and landscape program. There is created and
authorized in and for the village the village tree planting and landscaping
program, the goal of which shall be, consistent with and mindful of other needs
of the village, to enhance the overall appearance of the village by planting
trees and installing landscaping at appropriate locations throughout the
village. While the program shall not be limited or restricted to specific or
particular geographic areas of the village, the Village Board recognizes that a
primary focus of the program will be the planting of trees and installation of
landscaping at or near major entrances to the village, and along major
thoroughfares within the village, all so as to maximize the visual and
aesthetic benefits generated by the program.
   (B)   Designation of Village Manager. The Village Manager shall be and
hereby is designated as the Administrator of the program, and shall be
responsible for reviewing and making a record of areas in need of trees and
landscaping within the village, for formulating proposals for the planting of
trees and installation of landscaping in such areas and for implementing such
proposals. In their exercise of the aforesaid authority, the Village Manager
shall be entitled to request and receive such assistance as they may deem
necessary from other departments of the village, to appoint such persons as
they may deem necessary as assistant program administrators to carry out such
tasks as they may assign in connection with the furtherance of the goals and
objectives of the program and may enter into such contracts as may be necessary
to implement tree planting and landscaping programs under the auspices of the
program, in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-73.1-4.
(Prior Code, § 35.145) (Ord. 102-01, passed 11-7-2001)
**** DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION ****
§ 35.145 EX-OFFICIO MEMBERS.
   The Village Manager or their designee shall serve as an ex-officio member of
the DDDC, together with a Village Trustee appointed by the Village President to
serve as a liaison between the Village Board and the DDDC, together with such
other employees or members of the village staff as may be appointed from time
to time by the Village Manager upon the direction of the Village President.
(Prior Code, § 35.151) (Ord. 0050-02, passed 8-7-2002)
§ 35.146 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The DDDC shall serve as an independent commission of the village, and shall
be responsible for selecting an area of the village to be developed or
redeveloped as a downtown district, evaluating and reviewing the necessary and
desirable characteristics of a downtown district, both in terms of the types of
uses and developments which should be contained within such a district and in
terms of the standards to which uses and developments contained within such a
downtown district should adhere, receiving and reviewing submittals from
village staff, consultants and other persons with respect thereto, preparing
necessary and appropriate legislation to further and carry out the duties and
responsibilities of the DDDC as herein contained for review and consideration
by the Village Board, and providing advice and comment to the Village Board on
matters pertinent to the creation, growth and development of a downtown
district within the village, as well as performing such other duties and
responsibilities as may be assigned from time to time by the Village Board. The
decisions, actions, recommendations and policies of the DDDC shall be advisory
in nature and shall not be binding on the Village Board in any way.
(Prior Code, § 35.152) (Ord. 0050-02, passed 8-7-2002)
§ 35.147 RULES AND BYLAWS; MEETING SCHEDULE AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The DDDC shall be responsible for drafting and preparing such rules
and bylaws as it deems necessary for the conduct of its business and the
governance and activities of its members, which, together with any amendments
proposed thereto from time to time, shall be subject to the review and approval
of the Village Board of Trustees. To the extent that the provisions of this
section or the provisions of such rules and bylaws do not govern or address a
given matter pertaining to the conduct of the business of the DDDC or the
governance and activities of its members, the provisions of the then-current
version of “Robert’s Rules of Order” shall apply.
   (B)   The DDDC shall be responsible for creating and establishing such
committees as it deems necessary and appropriate for the conduct of its
business.
   (C)   The DDDC shall be responsible for scheduling such meetings, regular
and special, as may be required for the conduct of its business, and all such
meetings shall be scheduled and conducted in accordance with the provisions of
the Open Meetings Act.
(Prior Code, § 35.153) (Ord. 0050-02, passed 8-7-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
**** ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS ****
§ 35.160 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall meet in regular session on the first
and third Tuesdays of each month except as otherwise modified by the annually
published schedule.
   (B)   All regular meetings shall be held at 7:00 p.m. at the Village Hall
unless the Zoning Board of Appeals indicates otherwise by posting a notice as
required by law. Notice shall be given to all requesting news media.
   (C)   Adjourned regular meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
held at such time and place as may be fixed in the resolution of adjournment.
Except as otherwise provided in the resolution of adjournment, adjourned
meetings shall be held at the Village Hall. No change in the agenda shall be
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 35.165) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.161 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals may be called by the
Chair and held at any reasonable time or place fixed in the call.
   (B)   The Chair shall call a special meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals
at the request, in writing, of any four or more members of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, and if the Chair shall fail to comply with such request, said members
so requesting may call such meeting, all signing the notice.
   (C)   Adjourned special meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
held at such time and place as may be fixed in the resolution of adjournment.
Except as otherwise provided in the resolution of adjournment, adjourned
meetings shall be held at the Village Hall. No change in the agenda shall be
permitted.
   (D)   The Chair or other authorized member of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall notify each member of the Zoning Board of Appeals in writing by personal
service or by mail of special meetings. Such notice shall indicate the time,
place and business to be transacted at such special meeting. Such notice shall
be given at least three days in advance of the special meeting to which it
pertains. Public notice of the special meeting shall be posted in the manner
provided by law. Notice shall be given to all requesting news media.
(Prior Code, § 35.166) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.162 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   In order to provide continuity of thought and action, it shall be a
requirement of all members to attend all meetings, both regular and special, of
this Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Any member unable to attend a regular or special meeting of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall notify the Chair or Director of Community Development of
the village of such inability in advance of such meeting.
   (C)   Any member who shall have three unexcused absences from any four
consecutive Zoning Board of Appeals meetings shall be automatically
disqualified and removed from office.
   (D)   The Chair shall submit the names of any and all members covered by the
provisions of division (C) above to the Village President for disposition. The
Chair shall request immediate action by the President on the removal of said
members and the appointment of new members so as to ensure a full Zoning Board
of Appeals by the next regular Zoning Board of Appeals meeting.
(Prior Code, § 35.167) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.163 QUORUM.
   (A)   Four members of this Zoning Board of Appeals shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, except that less than
a quorum of members may meet and adjourn from time to time until a quorum is
present.
   (B)   The affirmative vote of four members shall be required for the
exercise of powers or functions conferred or imposed upon the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 35.168) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.164 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of a Chair
and a Vice-Chair.
   (B)   The Chair shall have the following powers and duties.
      (1)   The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
      (2)   The Chair shall have general charge of the business of the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
      (3)   The Chair shall vote on all matters which are voted upon by the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (4)   The Chair shall, when authorized by the Zoning Board of Appeals and
ordinances of the village, execute in its name all contracts and other
obligations.
      (5)   The Chair shall appoint all members to ad hoc committees as defined
in §
35.166.
      (6)   The Chair shall have general supervision of the conduct of the
affairs of the Zoning Board of Appeals and of employees thereof.
      (7)   The Chair shall perform other such duties as are usually exercised
by the Chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals or the president or chief of a
corporation.
   (C)   The Vice-Chair shall have the following powers and duties.
      (1)   The Vice-Chair shall perform the duties of the Chair during the
absence or disability of the Chair.
      (2)   The Vice-Chair shall have such other powers and duties as the Chair
shall from time to time delegate.
      (3)   The Vice-Chair shall vote on all matters which are voted upon by
the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 35.169) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.165 RECORDING SECRETARY.
   The Recording Secretary shall have the following duties: to attend all
regular and designated special meetings, and keep a record of the same and
transcribe properly in the minute book of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 35.170) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.166 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Ad hoc committees may be appointed from time to time by the Chair as
deemed necessary by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   All committee appointments shall be made by the Chair of the Zoning
Board of Appeals. The committee chair shall be elected by the committee members
upon convening of the first meeting or upon changing of committee assignments.
   (C)   The Chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be an ex-officio member
of all committees.
   (D)   The chair of the committee may appoint advisory members to their
committee whenever it may be advisable, or whenever said expert has talent,
information or experience bearing upon issues before such committee.
   (E)   All reports of the committee shall be submitted in writing to the
Zoning Board of Appeals in a timely manner. All members of the Committee shall
sign the report in two areas; once to agree or disagree with the findings of
the report, and once to agree with the accuracy of the report. Those
disagreeing with the findings of the report may submit a minority opinion with
the report.
(Prior Code, § 35.171) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.167 ELECTIONS AND APPOINTMENTS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) is established and shall consist of seven
members appointed by the Village President with the consent of the Village
Board of Trustees. All members of the ZBA shall be residents of the village.
All members appointed to the ZBA shall serve terms of one year from the date of
appointment (including appointments made prior to the effective date of this
amended section), and until their successors shall have been appointed and
qualified. As of the effective date hereof, members of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be relieved of any obligations as members of the ZBA and shall
thereafter no longer serve or be obligated to serve in such capacity unless
subsequently appointed as set forth herein. The Village President shall, with
the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees, designate one member
of the ZBA as the Chair of the ZBA, who shall preside over the meetings and
proceedings of the ZBA, and be empowered to compel the attendance of witnesses
and administer oaths as provided by law, and designate one member of the ZBA as
the Vice-Chair of the ZBA, who shall perform the duties of the Chair in the
Chair’s absence.
(Prior Code, § 35.172) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001; Ord. 11-0938, passed 11-
2-2011)
§ 35.168 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of the business at regular meetings of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of agenda;
      (4)   Approval of minutes;
      (5)   Public hearings;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Old business;
      (8)   Citizens to be heard;
      (9)   Chair’s report;
      (10)   Zoning Board members’s reports;
      (11)   Village Board liaison report;
      (12)   Community Development Department report; and
      (13)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The order of business at special meetings of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be as designated by the Chair.
(Prior Code, § 35.173) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.169 PROCEDURES OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   An application shall be prepared by the Community Development
Department from time to time for completion by applicants, which application
shall require such information which will adequately delineate the nature of
the applicant’s request.
   (B)   At the time of the hearing, the applicant may appear on their behalf
or be represented by counsel or agent.
   (C)   In the event that others wishing to testify retain counsel to
represent them at a hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals, then such
counsel shall notify the appellant or applicant, or their agent or attorney,
that they have been retained and will be present to testify. Such notice shall
be delivered to the Offices of the Zoning Board of Appeals and to the
applicant, or their agent or attorney, at least two days prior to the scheduled
hearing date. If such notice is not given by counsel retained by the others
wishing to testify, then the applicant or their agent or attorney shall have
the option of postponing the hearing to the next regular meeting of the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
   (D)   All witnesses shall testify under oath.
   (E)   Evidence shall be presented in the following order:
      (1)   A representative of the Community Development Department presents a
summary of the project compliance report;
      (2)   The applicant presents evidence for a period of not longer than 15
minutes unless extended at the discretion of the Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (3)   Zoning Board of Appeals members examine testimony of the
applicant’s witnesses;
      (4)   Those giving testimony other than the applicant’s representatives
present evidence for a period not longer than five minutes unless extended at
the discretion of the Zoning Board of Appeals. Representatives of a group may
give testimony for a period of not longer than 15 minutes unless extended at
the discretion of the Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (5)   Zoning Board of Appeals members examine testimony of additional
witnesses;
      (6)   Cross-examination of testimony given by applicant’s witnesses by
additional witnesses or audience members;
      (7)   Cross-examination of testimony given by additional witnesses by the
applicant or the applicant’s representatives witnesses;
      (8)   Clarification/rebuttal testimony given by the applicant for a
period not longer than five minutes unless extended at the discretion of the
Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (9)   Clarification/rebuttal testimony given by additional witnesses for
a period not longer than five minutes unless extended at the discretion of the
Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (10)   Cross-examination of the applicant’s witnesses’ clarification/
rebuttal testimony by additional witnesses or audience members;
      (11)   Cross-examination of additional witness clarification/rebuttal
testimony by the applicant or the applicant’s representatives; and
      (12)   Evidence given by the Zoning Board of Appeals, if any.
   (F)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not be bound by the strict rules of
evidence, but it may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or unduly
repetitious testimony or evidence.
   (G)   An applicant or other testifier, or agent or attorney, may submit a
list of the persons favoring or opposing the application. Such list will be
accepted as an exhibit if it contains nothing more than a brief statement of
the position of the persons favoring or opposing the appeal or application,
together with the signatures of the persons subscribing to such statement.
   (H)   The Chair shall rule on all questions relating to the admissibility of
evidence, which may be overruled by the majority of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, upon motion by any member of the Zoning Board of Appeals present.
   (I)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may refuse to accept written reports,
memoranda, maps, charts or other documents unless a copy thereof shall have
been filed with the Community Development Department at least seven calendar
days prior to the date of the public hearing at which time such reports,
memoranda, maps, charts and other documents are offered in evidence.
   (J)   Evidence requiring a longer time to complete than allowed as stated in
division (E) above may be submitted in writing to the Community Development
Department for inclusion in the Zoning Board of Appeals packets seven calendar
days prior to the scheduled Zoning Board of Appeals meeting.
   (K)   Persons submitting written testimony shall make themselves available
at the public hearing for cross-examination.
(Prior Code, § 35.174) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.170 DECISIONS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall conduct its deliberations and vote
on all matters in public session at the meting in which evidence is concluded
unless the Zoning Board of Appeals considers additional time for deliberation
necessary.
   (B)   (1)   All decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be made at a
public meeting by motion made and seconded, and by the Recording Secretary
polling the membership by a roll call vote.
      (2)   The Community Development Department shall prepare a Zoning Board
of Appeals report for submission to the Village Board which states the findings
of fact upon which the decision was based.
   (C)   Notice of the recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
given to the applicant and other interested parties as soon as possible after
the decision is reached.
(Prior Code, § 35.175) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.171 RECORDS.
   (A)   A file of materials and decisions relating to each case shall be kept
by the Community Development Department as part of the records of the Zoning
Board of Appeals as set forth by the laws of the state.
   (B)   The Community Development Department, under the discretion and
supervision of the Chair, shall maintain all books, papers and records of the
Zoning Board of Appeals and shall attend to all correspondence of the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
   (C)   All records of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be of public record.
(Prior Code, § 35.176) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
§ 35.172 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   This subchapter may be amended from time to time on motion of any
member, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Amendments shall be presented in writing to the Zoning Board of
Appeals at a regular meeting by the member(s) proposing such amendments.
   (C)   Proposed amendments shall not be voted upon until the next regular
meeting following their presentation to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (D)   No amendment shall be effective unless approved by four members of the
Zoning Board of Appeals then holding office.
(Prior Code, § 35.177) (Res. 77-01, passed 5-16-2001)
**** VETERAN’S COMMISSION ****
§ 35.185 ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   There is created a Veteran’s Commission composed of seven members.
   (B)   The purpose of the Commission shall be to recognize the contribution
of residents of the village who have served in the armed forces of the United
States, to assist veterans in preserving their rights in obtaining benefits
from various governmental agencies by cooperating with the agencies for the
benefit of the veterans and to educate the citizenry as to the accomplishments
and contributions of veterans.
(Prior Code, § 35.185) (Ord. 08-0708, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 19-1554, passed
4-3-2019)
§ 35.186 MEMBER; TERM.
   The members of the Veteran’s Commission shall be appointed by the President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Chair of the
Commission shall be designated by the President with the advice and consent of
the Board of Trustees. A Commissioner having been duly appointed shall continue
to serve after the expiration of their term or until their successor has been
appointed. All terms shall be for one year and shall end June 1 of each year.
Vacancies shall be filled by appointments for unexpired terms only.
(Prior Code, § 35.186) (Ord. 08-0708, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 35.187 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall hold meetings as may be necessary, and these meetings
shall be held in the Village Hall or in some other suitable place. All meetings
shall comply with the Open Meetings Act.
(Prior Code, § 35.187) (Ord. 08-0708, passed 11-19-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
**** SPECIAL EVENTS COMMISSION ****
§ 35.200 ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   There is created and established a commission, to be known as the Village
Special Events Commission (“Commission”), consisting of up to ten residents of
the village to be appointed by the Village President with the advice and
consent of the Village Board of Trustees. The purpose of the Commission shall
be to serve as an advisory body generating ideas, suggestions and
recommendations and to otherwise assist in creating, planning and conducting
special events within and for the village. The Commission shall periodically
forward its ideas, suggestions and recommendations to the Recreation Department
for consideration.
(Prior Code, § 35.190) (Ord. 15-1168, passed 1-21-2015)
§ 35.201 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   The Commission shall consist of up to ten members who are residents of the
village, appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the
Village Board of Trustees. All members of the Commission shall be appointed for
terms of one year, and provided further, however, that all members appointed to
the Commission shall continue to serve from and after their appointment until
such time as a successor has been appointed and sworn. Any vacancies occurring
in the membership of the Commission shall be filled by appointment by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Village Board for the
balanced of the unexpired term. In addition, the Village President may also
appoint one or more individuals to serve as members of the Commission based on
particular experience or expertise possessed by such individuals that is
relevant to the business of the Commission. Such individuals may, but need not,
be residents of the village, and shall be appointed and serve terms as
hereinabove set forth.
(Prior Code, § 35.191) (Ord. 15-1168, passed 1-21-2015)
§ 35.202 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall meet at least four times per year, and shall hold its
meetings at the Village Hall. The Commission may also call additional special
meetings from time to time as necessitated by the business of the Commission.
All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public, and shall be
conducted in accordance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
(Prior Code, § 35.192) (Ord. 15-1168, passed 1-21-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
**** CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE ****
§ 35.215 ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   There is created and established a committee to be known as the Village
Conservation and Sustainability Committee; the purposes of which shall be to
provide assistance and guidance to the village in promoting conservation,
environmental stewardship and sustainability for the benefit of current and
future generations of village residents. The Committee will generate ideas,
suggestions and recommendations on the development and implementation of
conservation measures and sustainable practices, and will engage in education,
outreach and the development of community initiatives within the village to
encourage residents and the village business community to adopt and implement
conservation measures and sustainable practices.
(Prior Code, § 35.200) (Ord. 23-1840, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 35.216 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   The Committee shall consist of up to ten members who shall be residents of
the village, community partners or members of the village business community,
appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Village
Board of Trustees. All members of the Committee shall be appointed for terms of
one year, and provided further, however, that all members appointed to the
Committee shall continue to serve from and after their appointment until such
time as a successor has been appointed and sworn. Any vacancies occurring in
the membership of the Committee shall be filled by appointment by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Village Board for the balance of
the unexpired term. Two of the members so appointed by the Village President
shall also be designated at the time of appointment as co-chairs of the
Committee, who shall serve as co-chairs of the Committee during their one-year
term.
(Prior Code, § 35.201) (Ord. 23-1840, passed 3-15-2023; Ord. 25-2010, passed
10-1-2025)
§ 35.217 MEETINGS.
   The Committee shall meet at least four times per year, and shall hold its
meetings at the Village Hall. The Committee may also call additional special
meetings from time to time as necessitated by the business of the Committee.
All meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public, and shall be
conducted in accordance with the Illinois Open Meetings Act.
(Prior Code, § 35.202) (Ord. 23-1840, passed 3-15-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
§ 35.218 SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGE.
   The Committee shall further be, and hereby is, charged with the development
of a sustainability challenge program, which shall take the form of a voluntary
self-certification program to be offered by the village to help village
businesses, not-for-profit organizations and other community constituencies to
achieve and implement model standards of conservation and sustainability
practices. Certification will involve self-evaluation of current practices and
documentation of the implementation of conservation and sustainability
practices, and is anticipated to involve annual recognition of village
businesses, not-for-profit organizations and other community constituencies for
their implementation of conservation and sustainability practices during the
preceding year, in categories that may include water use, waste generation/
recycling, energy, transportation and purchasing. The sustainability challenge
program shall be presented to and approved by action of the Village Board prior
to formal implementation.
(Prior Code, § 35.203) (Ord. 23-1840, passed 3-15-2023)
CHAPTER 36: VILLAGE FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Fiscal year
   
36.002   Annual appropriation ordinance
   
36.003   Other appropriations limited
   
36.004   Expenditures over appropriations prohibited; exceptions
   
36.005   Warrants
   
36.006   Tax levy ordinance
   
36.007   Working cash fund
   
36.008   Adoption of budget process
   
36.009   Credit card payments
   
36.010   Prevailing wage
   
36.011   Capital asset accounting policy
Investment Policy
   
36.025   Scope
   
36.026   Investment objectives
   
36.027   Standards of care
   
36.028   Delegation of authority
   
36.029   Safekeeping and custody
   
36.030   Suitable and authorized investments
   
36.031   Investment parameters
   
36.032   Reporting
   
36.033   Illinois Sustainable Investing Act
   
36.034   Policy considerations
Purchasing Procedures
   
36.045   Procurement policy
   
36.046   Purchasing authority and purchasing process
   
36.047   Responsible bidder process
   
36.048   Payment processing policy
   
36.049   Procurement card/credit card purchases
   
36.050   Equal opportunity/nondiscrimination policy
   
36.051   Cooperative purchasing
   
36.052   Receiving and inspection
   
36.053   Interests in contracts
   
36.054   Village financial planning policies
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
36.065   Purpose
   
36.066   Scope
   
36.067   Definitions
   
36.068   Administration of the program
   
36.069   Identity theft prevention elements
   
36.070   Program management and accountability
   
36.071   Other legal requirements
Expense Policy
   
36.085   Expense policy
   
Appendix A:   Village of Romeoville Financial Planning Policies
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 36.001 FISCAL YEAR.
   The village fiscal year shall commence on May 1 of each year, and end on
April 30 next succeeding.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal finance, see 65 ILCS 5/8-1
§ 36.002 ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   The Village Board of Trustees shall, within the first quarter of each fiscal
year, pass an ordinance to be termed the annual appropriation ordinance, in
which it may appropriate such sum or sums of money as may be deemed necessary
to defray all the necessary expenses and liabilities of the Village Board. In
this ordinance, the Village Board shall specify the objects and purposes for
which the appropriations are made, and the amount appropriated for each object
or purpose, including the salaries of each and every village officer.
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 36.003 OTHER APPROPRIATIONS LIMITED.
   (A)   No further appropriations shall be made at any other time within the
same fiscal year, unless a proposition to make each additional appropriation
has been first sanctioned by a petition signed by electors of the village
numbering more than 50% of the number of votes cast for the candidates for
President at the last preceding general village election at which a President
was elected, by a petition signed by them or by a majority of those voting on
the question at a regular election or at an emergency referendum authorized in
accordance with the general election law. The Board of Trustees may by
ordinance initiate the submission of the proposition. During any fiscal year,
the Board may adopt a supplemental appropriation ordinance in an amount not in
excess of the aggregate of any additional revenue available to the
municipality, or estimated to be received by the municipality after the
adoption of the annual appropriation ordinance for that fiscal year, or from
fund balances available when the annual appropriation ordinance was adopted but
that were not appropriated at that time. The provisions of this section
prohibiting further appropriations without sanction by petition or election
shall not be applicable to the supplemental appropriation for that fiscal year.
The Board at any time, however, by a two-thirds vote of all the members, may
make transfers within any department or other separate agency of the village
government of sums of money appropriated for one corporate object or purpose to
another corporate object or purpose, but no appropriation for any object or
purpose shall thereby be reduced below an amount sufficient to cover all
obligations incurred or to be incurred against the appropriation. Nothing in
this section shall deprive the corporate authorities of the power to provide
for and cause to be paid from the funds of the municipality any charge imposed
by law without the action of the Board, the payment of which is ordered by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   At least ten days prior to the adoption of the annual appropriation
ordinance, the Board of Trustees of all villages over 2,000 in population shall
make the proposed appropriation ordinance or a formally prepared appropriation
or budget document upon which the annual appropriation ordinance will be based
conveniently available to public inspection and shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon. Notice of this hearing shall be given publication in one or
more newspapers published in the village, or if there is none published in the
village, in a newspaper published in the county and having general circulation
in the village, at least ten days prior to the time of the public hearing. The
notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the place where copies
of the proposed appropriation ordinance or formally prepared appropriation or
budget document will be accessible for examination. The annual appropriation
ordinance may be adopted at the same meeting at which the public hearing is
held or at any time after that public hearing.
   (C)   After the public hearing and before final action is taken on the
appropriation ordinance, the Board may revise, alter, increase or decrease the
items contained in the ordinance.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, any village in which 65
ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq. becomes effective after the annual appropriation ordinance
has been passed for the current fiscal year may amend the appropriation
ordinance in any manner necessary to make 65 ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq. fully
operative in that village for that fiscal year. However, no such amendment
shall be construed to affect any tax levy made on the basis of the original
appropriation ordinance.
(65 ILCS 5/8-2-9)
§ 36.004 EXPENDITURES OVER APPROPRIATIONS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Neither the Village Board nor any department or officer of the village
shall add to the village expenditure in any one year anything over and above
the amount provided for in the annual appropriation ordinance of that year,
except as is otherwise specially provided. No expenditure for an improvement to
be paid for out of the General Fund of the village shall exceed in any one year
the amount provided for the improvement in the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein, however, shall prevent the Village Board
from ordering, by a two-thirds vote, any improvement or restoration the
necessity of which is caused by any casualty or accident happening after the
appropriation is made. The Village Board may, by vote, order the President and
Finance Committee to borrow a sufficient amount to provide for the expense
required to be incurred in making improvements, necessitated by the casualty or
accident, for a space of time not exceeding the close of the next fiscal year,
which sum and interest shall be added to the amount authorized to be raised in
the next general tax levy, and included therein.
   (C)   Should any judgment be obtained against the village, the President and
Finance Committee, under the sanction of the Village Board, may borrow a
sufficient amount to pay the judgment, for a space of time not exceeding the
close of the next fiscal year. The sum and interest shall in like manner be
added to the amount authorized to be raised in the general tax levy of the next
year and included therein.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 36.005 WARRANTS.
   (A)   All warrants drawn on the Treasurer must be signed by the President
and countersigned by the Clerk, stating the particular fund or appropriation to
which the same is chargeable and the person to whom payable. No money shall be
otherwise paid than on such warrants so drawn, except as otherwise provided
for.
   (B)   The Village President and Village Clerk may satisfy the purpose and
intent of division (A) above by affixing their signatures to the listing of
warrants so prepared by the Village Treasurer to indicate approval of said
warrants. In the event either the Village President or Village Clerk shall
refuse payment of any individual listing, they shall so indicate by placing the
notation “refused” after said listing and affixing their signature or initials
thereon.
   (C)   The term WARRANT, as used herein, shall be defined as the computerized
listing of warrants prepared by the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 36.05) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907; Ord. 1016-87, passed 9-2-
1987)
§ 36.006 TAX LEVY ORDINANCE.
   The Village Board shall, on or before the first Tuesday in September in each
year, ascertain the total amount of all appropriations for all village
purposes, legally made and to be collected from the tax levy of that fiscal
year, and by ordinance, levy and assess such amount on the real and personal
property within the village subject to taxation as it is assessed for state and
county purposes for the current year. A certified copy of the ordinance shall
be filed with the County Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 36.06) (Ord. 82, passed 10-2-1907)
§ 36.007 WORKING CASH FUND.
   (A)   There is created pursuant to the authority set forth in 65 ILCS 5/8-7-
1 et seq., a fund known as the Working Cash Fund, to be administered in
accordance with the terms and provisions of state law. In order to maintain
this fund, there shall be levied a tax of 0.05% upon all taxable property in
the municipality as equalized or assessed by the Department of Local Government
Affairs for the year in which each levy is made.
   (B)   No warrants shall be drawn on the working cash fund against the tax
anticipated to be collected by the levy set forth in division (A) above. All
taxes levied pursuant to the working cash fund. The monies in the fund shall
not be considered current assets available for appropriation and shall not be
appropriated by the corporate authorities in the annual appropriation
ordinance. All funds in the working cash fund shall be used only for those
purposes set forth in 65 ILCS 5/8-7-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 36.07) (Ord. 758, passed 10-15-1980)
§ 36.008 ADOPTION OF BUDGET PROCESS.
   To provide an efficient budget process, the village adopts 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.1
and 8-2-9.2 through 8-2-9.10.
(Prior Code, § 36.08) (Ord. 2376-95, passed 8-16-1995)
§ 36.009 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Election to accept credit card payments. The village elects to accept
credit card payments to satisfy those types of monetary obligations set forth
in Exhibit A to Ord. 2547-98, passed March 4, 1998, a copy of which is attached
hereto, and by reference, fully incorporated herein.
   (B)   Authorization to negotiate. The Village President, or such other
person as they may designate, is authorized and empowered to conduct
negotiations with one or more financial institutions or other entities
providing credit card acceptance or processing services for the purpose of
entering into one or more agreements to enable the village to accept credit
card payments in satisfaction of the obligations set forth in Exhibit A, as
attached to Ord. 2547-98; provided, however, that no such agreement shall be
effective or in any way bind the village until such time as the Village
President and Board of Trustees duly and lawfully ordain or resolve to
authorize the entry into and execution of such agreement or agreements.
   (C)   Required contents of service agreements. Any agreement entered into
between and executed by the village and any financial institution or other
provider of credit card acceptance or processing services shall, at a minimum,
specifically identify the credit card acceptance or processing services to be
provided thereunder, itemize all fees to be charged to the village or any
person or entity making payment to the village with a credit card, specifically
identify the means by which any such fees are to be paid, and expressly provide
that the terms and conditions of and all performance under such agreement are
subject to the provisions of the Local Governmental Acceptance of Credit Cards
Act, 50 ILCS 345/1 et. seq. and all other applicable laws and statutes of the
state.
   (D)   Permitted contents of service agreements. Any agreement entered into
between and executed by the village and any financial institution or other
provider of credit card acceptance or processing services may contain terms or
provisions which establish processing fees to be charged to the village by the
financial institution or other provider of credit card acceptance or processing
services, discounts to be taken by the financial institution or other provider
of credit card acceptance or processing services from credit card payments to
be remitted to the village to the extent that such discounts serve as
compensation to the financial institution or other provider of credit card
acceptance or processing services in question for rendering credit card
acceptance or processing services, subject to § 25 of the Local Governmental
Acceptance of Credit Cards Act, 50 ILCS 345/1 et. seq., convenience fees or
surcharges to be charged by the village to persons or entities making credit
card payments to the village to the extent that such convenience fees or
surcharges serve to offset any reduction in revenue to the village caused by
the imposition of any fee or the taking of any discount by any financial
institution or other provider of credit card acceptance or processing services.
   (E)   Commencement of acceptance of credit card payments. Notwithstanding
the election made in division (A) above or any other term or provision of this
section, the village shall in no way be obligated to accept any credit card
payment from any person or entity with respect to the types of obligations set
forth in Exhibit A, as attached to Ord. 2547-98, or any other obligations
unless and until the village enters into and executes an agreement with a
financial institution or other credit card service provider which conforms to
the requirements of this section and the Local Governmental Acceptance of
Credit Cards Act, 50 ILCS 345/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 36.09) (Ord. 2547-98, passed 3-4-1998)
§ 36.010 PREVAILING WAGE.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by “An Act” regulating wages of
laborers, mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by state,
county, city or any public body or any political subdivision or by anyone under
contract for public works, approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general
prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other
workers engaged in construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction
of the village is ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages
for construction work in the county area, as determined by the State Department
of Labor from time to time, a copy of that determination being attached hereto
and incorporated herein by reference. As required by the Act, any and all
revision of the prevailing rate of wages by the State Department of Labor shall
supersede the Department’s June determination and apply to any and all public
works construction undertaken by the village. The definition of any terms
appearing in this section which are also used in aforesaid Act shall be the
same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply the general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the village to the extent required by the
aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the village, this determination
or any revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination
or of the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in
effect shall be attached to all contract specifications.
   (D)   The village shall mail of a copy of this determination to any
employer, and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employees who have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The village shall promptly file a certified copy of this section with
both the Secretary of State Index Division and the State Department of Labor.
   (F)   The village shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the area a copy of this section, and such publication shall
constitute notice that the determination is effective and that this is the
determination of this public body.
   (G)   (1)   All contracts for public works entered into by the village that
are subject to the Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/.01 et seq.) and the
provisions of this section shall be required to include the text hereinafter
set forth in the written contract, bid, bid notice, project specification,
purchase order or other written documentation memorializing the contract for
such public works:
“This contract calls for the construction of a “public work,” within the
meaning of the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act, 820 ILCS 130/.01 et seq. (“the
Act”). The Act requires contractors and subcontractors to pay laborers, workers
and mechanics performing services on public works projects no less than the
“prevailing rate of wages” (hourly cash wages plus fringe benefits) in the
county where the work is performed. For information regarding current
prevailing wage rates, please refer to the Illinois Department of Labor’s
website at: http://www.state.il.us/agency/idol/rates/rates.HTM. All contractors
and subcontractors rendering services under this contract must comply with all
requirements of the Act, including but not limited to, all wage, notice and
record keeping duties.”
      (2)   The proper officers of the village may from time to time require
all contractors on public works contracts to execute appropriate
acknowledgments evidencing such contractors’ receipt of the above-mentioned
notice.
(Prior Code, § 36.10) (Ord. 2575-98, passed 6-3-1998; Ord. 04-0156, passed 6-
16-2004; Ord. 05-0279, passed 6-1-2005; Ord. 07-0561, passed 7-18-2007; Ord.
08-0677, passed 6-4-2008; Ord. 09-0771, passed 6-3-2009; Ord. 10-0820, passed
2-3-2010; Ord. 11-0912, passed 6-1-2011; Ord. 12-0994, passed 6-20-2012; Ord.
13-1050, passed 6-17-2013; Ord. 14-1121, passed 6-4-2014; Ord. 15-1187, passed
6-3-2015; Ord. 16-1287, passed 6-8-2016; Ord. 17-1380, passed 6-7-2017; Ord.
18-1484, passed 6-20-2018)
§ 36.011 CAPITAL ASSET ACCOUNTING POLICY.
   (A)   The capital asset accounting and budgeting policy (CAAP) is
established to address the village’s investment in capital assets, such as, but
not limited to, real property, buildings, machinery, equipment and
infrastructure assets (such as roads, sidewalks, bridges, drainage systems,
water systems, water reclamation systems and other similar items). The CAAP is
meant to ensure compliance with the village’s accounting and budgeting
practices, various accounting and financial reporting standards including
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); Governmental Accounting,
Auditing and Financial Reporting (GAAFR); and applicable state and federal
capital asset regulatory and reporting requirements related to property.
   (B)   Further, the CAAP is meant to reflect the village’s desire to meet the
reporting requirements set forth in the Governmental Accounting Standards Board
(GASB) Statement No. 34 Basic Financial Statements - and Management’s
Discussion and Analysis - for State and Local Governments.
   (C)   Specifically, GASB Statement No. 34 states that governments should
provide additional disclosures in their summary of significant accounting
policies, including the policy for capitalizing assets and for estimating the
useful lives of those assets (used to calculate depreciation expense). The
statement also requires disclosure of major classes of assets, delineation of
assets associated with governmental activities from those associated with
business-type activities, beginning and end-of-year balances, capital
acquisitions, sales/dispositions and current period depreciation expense by
function.
   (D)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes, a
machinery or equipment item must be at or above a capitalization threshold of
$25,000 must have a useful life of five years. With regards to the purchase of
or improvements to property or buildings, the initial threshold must be in
excess of $100,000. The initial capitalization threshold for infrastructure
improvements shall be an amount in excess if $150,000. While substantial
repairs and renovations below these minimum thresholds will be reviewed and
potentially capitalized, it is anticipated that most will be expensed in the
current year. All capital assets will be budgeted in accounts separate and
easily distinguished from salary, contractual, commodity non-capital asset and
reserve expenditures.
   (E)   The Village Finance Department will ensure that accounting for a
capital asset is being exercised by establishing an initial capital asset
inventory. The Finance Department will further ensure that the capital asset
report will be updated annually to reflect additions, retirements, and
transfers and to reflect the new, annual capital asset balance for financial
reporting purposes and the annual and accumulated depreciation calculation.
   (F)   Day-to-day stewardship of personal property (above and in selected
instances below the threshold of $5,000) is the expressed responsibility of the
operating department utilizing the property.
   (G)   For maintenance of the capital asset accounting report, the operating
departments have the responsibility to report additions, retirements and
transfers in detail to the Finance Department. Detail includes such data
elements as asset description, location, make, model, serial number, date of
acquisition, cost and such other information deemed relevant. It is expected
that this reporting be in a timely manner as the capital asset record must be
updated annually.
   (H)   To be considered a non-capital asset for fixed asset appraisal
reporting, budget and inventory purposes a machinery or equipment item must be
at or above a $5,000 threshold, below the $25,000 capitalization threshold and
must have a useful life of five years. All capital assets will be budgeted in
accounts separate and easily distinguished from salary, contractual, commodity,
capital asset and reserve expenditures.
   (I)   Certain sensitive equipment and machinery items below the $5,000
threshold on a unit basis, including, but not limited to, computer equipment,
weapons and radios, fax machines, small power tools and other insurable items,
may be tracked, inventoried and budgeted as a non-capital asset for
safeguarding, insurance and inventory control purposes. These minor but
sensitive items, if not included in the fixed asset appraisal reporting, shall
be inventoried and controlled at the department level. Data elements are to
include asset description, location, make, model, serial number and other
information that assist control or deemed relevant.
   (J)   The Finance Department shall determine appropriate means, level of
detail, data elements and system to be utilized. Finally, the right to request
copies of the inventory and/or updated inventory of controllable items is
reserved to periodically review the information and adherence to policy.
(Prior Code, § 36.11) (Ord. 04-0313, passed 10-6-2004)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 36.025 SCOPE.
   (A)   This policy applies to all assets of the village and to those parties
responsible for its administration as described in the delegation of authority
of Ord. 21-1696. Longer-term funds, including investments of employees’
investment retirement funds and proceeds from certain bond issues, are covered
by a separate policy.
   (B)   Except for cash in certain restricted and special funds, the village
will consolidate cash balances from all funds to maximize investment earnings.
Investment income will be allocated to the various funds based on their
respective participation and in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.
(Prior Code, § 36.20) (Ord. 2710-99, passed 10-20-1999; Ord. 21-1696, passed 4-
7-2021)
§ 36.026 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Safety. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital. As such, the Board shall diversify the
aggregate investments to ensure that adverse or unexpected results will not
have an excessively detrimental impact on the entire portfolio. Diversification
may be interpreted to include diversification by asset type, characteristic,
number of investment managers and investment style.
   (B)   Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid
to enable Board to meet all operating requirements, which might be reasonably
anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. Assets shall be invested to achieve attractive
real rates of return. Following the prudent person standard for preservation of
capital, assets will be invested to achieve the highest possible rate of
return, consistent with the plan’s tolerance for risk, as determined by the
Board in its role as a fiduciary.
(Prior Code, § 36.21) (Ord. 2710-99, passed 10-20-1999; Ord. 21-1696, passed 4-
7-2021)
§ 36.027 STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Prudence. Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, by persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence; experienced in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment; considering the primary objective of safety as
well as the secondary objective of the attainment of market rates of return.
The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be that of a
“prudent person” and shall be applied in the context of managing an overall
portfolio. The members of the Board and other Board officials, acting in
accordance with written procedures and exercising due diligence, shall be
relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or
market price changes; provided that deviations from expectation are reported in
a timely fashion, and appropriate action is taken to control adverse
developments.
   (B)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. It is the policy of the Board of
Trustees that no Board member, officer or Board employee shall be also an
employee of or have any interest in any institution, investment manager,
whether individual or company or investment advisor, whether individual or
company, under any agreement with the Board for the investment of Board funds.
Additionally, it is the policy of the Board of Trustees that all elected and
appointed officials and employees of the Board shall comply with the Public
Officer Prohibited Activities Act, 50 ILCS 105/3 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 36.22) (Ord. 2710-99, passed 10-20-1999; Ord. 21-1696, passed 4-
7-2021)
§ 36.028 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Management responsibility for the investment program is borne by the
Village Board of Trustees. The Board may delegate authority to other person’s
the responsibility for investment transactions and investment records. No
person may engage in an investment transaction except as provided under the
terms of this policy. The Board shall be advised of and have oversight over all
appointees, and shall establish a system for internal controls to regulate the
activities of the investment manager(s).
   (B)   Parties which may be associated:
      (1)   Village Board of Trustees:
         (a)   Holds ultimate responsibility for the investment of funds and
the appropriateness of its investment policy and its execution;
         (b)   Retains consultants, money managers and other advisors to
implement and execute investment policy as it relates to the investment of
funds;
         (c)   Reviews adequacy or need for change of this statement;
         (d)   Meets regularly and reviews reports concerning asset management
of the investments;
         (e)   Engages a custodian(s);
         (f)   Defines investment policy, objectives and guidelines for the
investment of funds, including risk tolerance; and
         (g)   Administers the investments in accordance with the Public Funds
Investment Act, 30 ILCS 235 et seq.
      (2)   Custodian:
         (a)   Accepts possession of securities for safe keeping; collects and
disburses income; collects principal of sold, matured or called items; and
provides accurate, timely market value pricing, including accrued interest, for
all securities under their case;
         (b)   Provides timely monthly statements which accurately detail all
transactions in the accounts, as well as accurately describe all of the
securities owned;
         (c)   Effects receipt and delivery following purchases and sales of
securities on a timely and accurate basis; and
         (d)   Ensures that all cash is productively employed at all times.
      (3)   Investment managers:
         (a)   Subject to overall investment guidelines established by the
Board, has full discretion over the management of the allocated assets;
         (b)   Serves as fiduciary; responsible for specific securities
decisions;
         (c)   Will abide by the Public Funds Investment Act, 30 ILCS 235 et
seq., and shall abide by the duties, responsibilities and guidelines detailed
in any specific investment manager agreement entered into by the manager and
Board;
         (d)   Shall prepare periodic reports detailing individually all
investments, by class and type, the book value, the income earned and the
market value and all account transactions since the last report;
         (e)   Shall communicate to the Board any major changes in economic
outlook, investment strategy or any other factors that affect implementation of
their investment process, or the investment objectives; and
         (f)   Shall communicate to the Board any qualitative change in the
investment management organization. Examples include, but are not limited to:
changes in portfolio management personnel, ownership structure or investment
philosophy.
(Prior Code, § 36.23) (Ord. 21-1696, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 36.029 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Selection criteria for investment managers. All investment managers,
investment advisors and institutions in which public funds are invested shall
be selected on the basis of the results of proposals submitted to the Board
based on such criteria as are selected by the Board of Trustees. The criteria
used may include, but not be limited to, fee structure, performance measures,
security procedures, convenience of accessing funds, services included in fees
and community investment record.
   (B)   Custody of assets. Third party safekeeping is required for all
securities owned. Custody arrangements shall be documented by an approved
written agreement. The agreement may be in the form of a safekeeping agreement,
trust agreement, escrow agreement or custody agreement.
   (C)   Internal controls. The Treasurer of the Board shall be the chief
investment officer and shall establish a system of internal controls, which
shall be documented in writing. The internal controls shall be reviewed by and
with an independent auditor. The controls shall be designed to prevent losses
of public funds arising from fraud, employee error and misrepresentation by
third parties; unanticipated changes in financial markets; or imprudent actions
by employees and officers of the village.
(Prior Code, § 36.24) (Ord. 2710-99, passed 10-20-1999; Ord. 21-1696, passed 4-
7-2021)
§ 36.030 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investment types. The Board may invest the funds of the Board only in
investments authorized by 30 ILCS 235/2, as it may be amended from time to
time, and as authorized by other applicable law.
   (B)   Permitted investments. As of the date of adoption of this policy,
permitted investments are:
      (1)   In bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness. Treasury bills or
other securities now or hereinafter issued, which are guaranteed by the full
faith and credit of the United States as to principal and interest;
      (2)   In bonds, notes, debentures or other similar obligations of the
United States or its agencies;
      (3)   In interest-bearing accounts, interest-bearing certificates of
deposit or interest-bearing time deposits or any other investments constitution
direct obligations of any bank as defined by the Illinois Banking Act, 205 ILCS
5/1 et seq.;
      (4)   In obligations of corporations, organized in the United States,
with assets exceeding $500,000,000 if such obligations are rated at the time of
purchase at one of the three highest classifications established by at least
two standard rating services, and which mature not later than three years from
the date of purchase, such purchases do not exceed 10% of the corporation’s
outstanding obligations, and no more than one-third of the Board’s fund may be
invested in short-term obligations of corporations;
      (5)   Interest bearing bonds of any county, township, city, village,
incorporated town, municipal corporation or school district of the state or of
any other state or of any political subdivision or agency of the state or of
any other state. The bonds must be rated “A” (or the equivalent) or higher by a
rating service of nationally recognized expertise at the time of purchase;
      (6)   In money market mutual funds registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. §§ 80a-1 et seq.; provided that the portfolio of
any such money market mutual fund is limited to obligations described in
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above, and to agreements to repurchase such
obligations;
      (7)   Investments may be made only in banks that are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board may invest public funds in
short-term discount obligations of the Federal National Mortgage Association or
in shares or other forms of securities legally issuable by savings banks or
saving and loan associations incorporated under the laws of the state or any
other state or under the laws of the United States. Investments may be made
only in those savings banks or savings and loan associations, the shares or
investment certificates of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation;
      (8)   The Board may invest public funds in dividend-bearing share
accounts, share certificate accounts or class of share accounts of a credit
union chartered under the laws of the state or the laws of the United States;
provided, however, the principal office of such credit union must be located
within the state. Investments may be made only in those credit unions the
accounts of which are insured by applicable law;
      (9)   The Board may invest public funds in the Public Treasurer’s
investment pool created under § 17 of the State Treasurer’s Act;
      (10)   (a)   Any monies invested in interest bearing cash accounts and/or
a savings and loan association, banks or credit unions must be insured by
federal law or collateralized with the securities listed below in an amount
equal to 102% of the amount in any cash account that exceeds current FDIC
limits.
         (b)   The Board will accept any of the following assets as collateral:
            1.   United States government securities;
            2.   Obligations of federal agencies;
            3.   Obligations of the state; and
            4.   General obligation municipal bonds rated “A” or better issued
by a governing body in the state.
      (11)   Any other security authorized by law and pre-approved by the Board
of Trustees.
   (C)   Prohibited transactions and investments. Prohibited transactions and
investments shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Short selling;
      (2)   Margin transactions;
      (3)   Transactions involving futures or options contracts;
      (4)   Reverse repurchase agreements;
      (5)   CATS - zero coupon;
      (6)   TIGERRS - zero coupon;
      (7)   TR - Treasury receipt zero obligation;
      (8)   CMO - collateralized mortgage obligation; and
      (9)   Sallie-Mae - Student Loan Marketing Association.
(Prior Code, § 36.25) (Ord. 2710-99, passed 10-20-1999; Ord. 21-1696, passed 4-
7-2021)
§ 36.031 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS.
   (A)   Diversification. The investments shall be diversified by security type
and institution.
   (B)   Selection of investment instruments. The Board shall invest any
surplus funds for a specific maturity date that is required for either cash
flow purposes or for conformance to maturity guidelines, if such instruments
which would be most advantageous under prevailing market conditions, exist.
Records will be kept of all investments purchased or sold by the Board in
compliance with statues.
   (C)   Performance benchmark. In order to effectively measure investment
performance for a managed portfolio, an established benchmark will be selected
and approved by the Investment Committee. The appropriate benchmark will be
selected based on the portfolio goals and objectives as governed by guidelines
in this policy.
   (D)   Investment parameters - operating funds. To the extent possible, the
Board will attempt to match its investments with anticipated cash flow
requirements. Maturity scheduling shall be timed according to anticipated need.
The maximum maturity should not exceed three years and the portfolio duration
should not exceed two.
   (E)   Investment parameters - reserve funds. Reserve funds and other funds
with longer-term horizons may be invested in securities with the following
guidelines. The maximum maturity should not exceed five years and the portfolio
duration should not exceed three.
   (F)   Specific investment goals.
      (1)   Over a five-year investment horizon, it is the goal of the Board to
meet or exceed the annual rate of return of prescribed benchmarks as determined
from time to time by the Investment Committee.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees understands that in order to achieve its
objectives of the investment of assets, the investments will experience
volatility of returns and fluctuations of market value as well as periods of
losses. Losses will be viewed within the context of appropriate market indices.
(Prior Code, § 36.26) (Ord. 2710-99, passed 10-20-1999; Ord 21-1696, passed 4-
7-2021)
§ 36.032 REPORTING.
   The investment officer shall prepare an investment report at least
quarterly, including a management summary that provides an analysis of the
status of the current investment portfolio and transactions made over the last
quarter. This management summary will be prepared in a manner which will allow
the village to ascertain whether investment activities during the reporting
period have conformed to the investment policy.
(Prior Code, § 36.27) (Ord. 2710-99, passed 10-20-1999; Ord. 21-1696, passed 4-
7-2021)
§ 36.033 ILLINOIS SUSTAINABLE INVESTING ACT.
   (A)   The Board recognizes that material, relevant and decision-useful
sustainability factors have been or are regularly considered by the Board,
within the bounds of financial and fiduciary prudence, in evaluating investment
decisions.
   (B)   Such factors include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Corporate governance and leadership factors;
      (2)   Environmental factors;
      (3)   Social capital factors;
      (4)   Human capital factors; and
      (5)   Business model and innovation factors, as provided under the
Illinois Sustainable Investing Act, 30 ILCS 238/1.
(Prior Code, § 36.28) (Ord. 21-1696, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 36.034 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   This policy was prepared under the authority of the Board. The policy
shall be effective immediately for all investments purchased after the date of
its adoption.
   (B)   This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. Any changes must be
approved by the investment officer and any other appropriate authority, as well
as the individual(s) charged with maintaining internal controls.
(Prior Code, § 36.29) (Ord. 2710-99, passed 10-20-1999; Ord. 21-1696, passed 4-
7-2021)
**** PURCHASING PROCEDURES ****
§ 36.045 PROCUREMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose and goals. The purpose of the purchasing policies and
procedures is to establish standards and procedures to be followed by all
departments, trustees and commissions in the purchase of supplies, materials,
parts, equipment and contractual/professional services and to promote public
confidence in the integrity of the process, ensure fair and equitable treatment
of all people who participate in the purchasing system and maximize the economy
in purchasing activities. It is also to provide additional guidance to this
chapter.
   (B)   Code of Ethics. All village personnel engaged in purchasing and
related activities have a duty to conduct business dealings in a manner above
reproach in every respect. Transactions relating to expenditure of public funds
require the highest degree of public trust to protect the interests of the
village and its residents. Accordingly, village employees shall strive to:
      (1)   Ensure that public money is spent efficiently and effectively and
in accordance with all applicable laws and policy;
      (2)   Maintain proper confidentiality at all times;
      (3)   Purchase without favor or prejudice; and
      (4)   Conflicts of interest.
         (a)   Any vendor, supplier, contractor or bidder on a contract shall
submit to the village in writing a disclosure statement provided by the village
in conformity with 65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10 stating, if applicable, any interest
that any person associated with that vendor, supplier or bidder might have in
the government of the village, including serving on an advisory panel or
commission, and including service as an employee of the village. Such
disclosure statement shall further provide all information reasonably required
in response to the requirements of this section. In cases where the expense of
a contract, bid or proposal exceeds the sum of $100,000, the vendor, supplier,
contractor or bidder shall also identify the names of all persons holding an
ownership interest in the vendor, supplier or bidder in excess of 1% who are
related as spouse, parent, child, sibling, aunt, uncle or cousin to any person
then holding elected office or any employment position with the village. In the
event that any part of the contract, bid or proposal in question is to be
subcontracted to one or more subcontractors (including materials suppliers) or
to one or more tiers of subcontractors (including materials suppliers), the
vendor, supplier, contractor or bidder in question shall also cause the
foregoing information to be provided with respect to all subcontractors
(including materials suppliers) in all subcontracting tiers. The truthfulness
and accuracy of the disclosure statement shall be the responsibility of the
vendor, supplier, contractor or bidder in question. The failure to supply the
disclosure statement required hereunder shall constitute grounds for rejecting
any bid, proposal or award of a contract.
         (b)   No vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor shall be eligible to
enter into any contract with the village having a value or expense in excess of
$100,000 where a person holding an ownership interest in excess of 1% in such
vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor is related as spouse, parent, child,
sibling, aunt, uncle or cousin to any person then holding elected office or any
employment position with the village, where such employment position in any way
involves the review or approval of bids, contracts, proposals or purchases. In
cases where all or a portion of such contract is to be subcontracted to one or
more subcontractors (including materials suppliers) or to one or more tiers of
subcontractors (including materials suppliers), a vendor, supplier, bidder or
contractor shall not be eligible to enter into any such contract with the
village if a person holding an ownership interest in excess of 1% in any
subcontractor in any tier of subcontractors is related as spouse, parent,
child, sibling, aunt, uncle or cousin to any person then holding elected office
or any employment position with the village where such employment position in
any way involves the review or approval of bids, contracts, proposals or
purchases.
         (c)   No vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor shall be eligible to
enter into any contract with the village having a value or expense in excess of
$100,000 (or any group or series of multiple contracts that, in a given
calendar year or given fiscal year of the village, has an aggregate value or
expense in excess of $100,000) if such vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor
then employs any elected village official or any village employee, or then
possesses or maintains any compensated independent contracting or consulting
relationship with any elected village official or any village employee.
         (d)   No vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor shall be eligible to
enter into any contract with the village having a value or expense in excess of
$100,000 (or any group or series of multiple contracts that, in a given
calendar year or given fiscal year of the village, has an aggregate value or
expense in excess of $100,000) if such vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor
then employs or possesses or maintains any compensated independent contracting
or consulting relationship with any individual who was employed by the village
or served as an elected official of the village at any time during the
preceding two years.
   (C)   Equal opportunity/non discrimination. All potential suppliers shall
have an equal opportunity to submit bids or quotations and to compete on an
equal basis for the village business.
      (1)   Purchasing agents should establish and maintain procedures to
ensure that fair and equal consideration is given to each offer or quotation
received and that selection is based upon the lowest responsible bid or other
appropriate criteria.
      (2)   All purchase orders and contracts to which the village is party
shall contain a nondiscrimination in employment clause which provides: “The
vendor agrees that in performing under this purchase order with the contracting
municipality, not to discriminate against any worker, employee or applicant, or
any member of the public because of race, religion, color, national origin or
sex, ancestry, age, marital status, physical or mental handicap, or unfavorable
discharge from military service. The vendor further agrees that this clause
will be incorporated in all contracts entered into with suppliers of materials
or services who may perform any such labor or services in connection with this
contract.”
      (3)   Even if such clause is not included, the above clause shall be
construed to be incorporated as a part of such purchase orders and contracts.
(Prior Code, § 36.40) (Ord. 2189-92, passed 9-16-1992; Ord. 21-1706, passed 5-
19-2021)
§ 36.046 PURCHASING AUTHORITY AND PURCHASING PROCESS.
   Except as otherwise expressly authorized by law or the provisions of this
chapter, a purchase order shall be required for all purchases over $1,000, and
no village employee shall make any purchase without first obtaining a duly
issued purchase order for purchases exceeding $1,000. A purchase order shall be
sought by submitting such form as prescribed from time to time by the Finance
Director, which form shall be completed with such information and with such
signatures as are hereinafter required.
   (A)   General purchase authority. No employee may purchase products or
services over $1,000 on behalf of the village without first seeking approval as
required by this policy. All purchases require advanced approval of the
appropriate department head or Village Manager, in accordance with the
following guidelines:
 
Dollar Limits        Required Approval
Up to $5,000         Department head (or other supervisor designated by
                     department head) and Finance Director
$5,000.01—$19,999.9Department head, Finance Director and Village Manager
$20,000 and above    Department head, Finance Director and Village Manager and
                     documentation of Board approval
 
   (B)   General policy for soliciting quotes. Employees are responsible for
obtaining quotes for purchases, in the instances outlined below:
 
Dollar Limits        Quote/Bid Required
                     No quotes are required, employees are encouraged to seek
Up to $5,000         one or more quotes when possible or otherwise ensure that
                     competitive prices are obtained
                     A requisition for a purchase must include either (i) a
$5,000.01—$19,999.9minimum of 3 quotes or (ii) memo explaining why three
                     quotes are not available
                     Board of Trustees must approve through ordinance,
$20,000 and above    resolution or motion. The Board can approve through a bid
                     process, through the formal RFP process, approval of a
                     contract for services and approval for state contract
 
   (C)   Purchase orders. Unless specifically exempt from the purchase order
process, all purchases must be entered and approved in the purchase order
system prior to making the purchase.
   (D)   Exemptions from purchase order. Purchases exempt from the purchase
order process include the following:
      (1)   Energy and utility bills;
      (2)   Garbage disposal;
      (3)   Telephone;
      (4)   Insurance;
      (5)   Bulk fuel;
      (6)   Escrow, deposits or refunds for service payments;
      (7)   Employee benefits;
      (8)   Emergency purchases (see division (G) below); and
      (9)   Purchases and invoices under $100.
   (E)   Information for purchase orders. Purchase orders shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Vendor name and address;
      (2)   Shipping address and billing address;
      (3)   Budget account number/line item number that the expenditure is to
be charged to;
      (4)   Date the purchase order initiated;
      (5)   Quantity;
      (6)   Description of item and/or service and its intended use. This
description should be easily understood by a reader from another department;
      (7)   Unit price, total price and total price including shipping costs;
      (8)   This should be the person to whom all questions regarding the item
or service will be referred;
      (9)   Project number, if applicable (all capital projects must indicate
project number);
      (10)   Discounts; and
      (11)   Proper approvals.
   (F)   Joint/cooperative purchasing.
      (1)   Cooperative purchasing between the village and the state and other
local governments can result in significant savings on the purchase price of
many items.
      (2)   It is the policy of the village to enter into cooperative
purchasing agreements when:
         (a)   Substantial saving will result;
         (b)   Quality, availability or service will not be sacrificed;
         (c)   The village will be separately billed for its purchases; and
         (d)   Purchases must be included in the currently approved annual
budget.
   (G)   Emergency purchases. In case of an emergency affecting immediate
public health, safety and/or welfare, the Mayor or Village Manager may
authorize a vendor to perform any and all work necessary to resolve such
emergency without an approved purchase order and/or formal bid. A purchase
order will be prepared after the emergency has been resolved. A purchase over
$20,000 must be ultimately ratified by the Village Board. A full report of the
circumstances of the emergency purchase must be filed with the Village Board,
entered in the minutes of the Village Board and open for public inspection.
Written documentation will include a complete description of the services,
materials and equipment required and the costs incurred. A purchase order may
be prepared and approved after the emergency purchase.
   (H)   Blanket purchase orders.
      (1)   Annual vendor total below $20,000. Blanket purchase orders may be
utilized to facilitate the purchase of routine purchase of goods and services
throughout the year. Blanket purchase orders for vendors where the aggregate
annual purchase from the vendor will be under $20,000 and no individual order
will be above $5,000 will not require quotes but will require the proper
signatory approval.
      (2)   Annual vendor total above $20,000. At the start of each fiscal
year, the departments will review annual purchases to determine what vendors
should be included in the annual purchase resolution prepared by the Finance
Department. The resolution will request purchase authorization for routine
purchases that exceed $20,000. In order to qualify for the blanket purchase
order resolution, the vendor’s total annual purchases are estimated above
$20,000 but individual purchases will be less than $5,000, and the purchase
must not be for any of the following:
         (a)   Equipment purchased over $20,000;
         (b)   Non-routine professional services over $20,000;
         (c)   Bulk orders of an item over $20,000; and
         (d)   Individual items purchased from a sole supplier over $20,000.
   (I)   Annual purchase resolution.
      (1)   To assist in facilitating the Board of Trustees’ awareness of
recurring and routine expenditures. The Finance Department shall, prior to the
start of each fiscal year, prepare an annual purchasing resolution that, when
adopted by the Village Board, will approve or ratify a large number of annually
recurring and foreseeable routine purchases. Once adopted, the annual
purchasing resolution shall serve as the equivalent of a purchase order for the
purposes of this chapter with respect to the transactions contained therein.
      (2)   The various types of transactions eligible for inclusion in the
annual purchasing resolution include the following:
         (a)   Blank purchase orders. Blanket purchase orders detailed above in
division (H) above;
         (b)   Contract. Vendors where the annual total purchases therefrom
will exceed $20,000 for the year and the village already has a signed contract
and/or previous Board approval for the purchase. Individual or cumulative
purchases may exceed $20,000 per year;
         (c)   Sole supplier. A vendor that is the only source available to the
village to provide the particular goods or services, where individual purchases
may fall between $5,000 and $20,000;
         (d)   System supplier. A vendor who is the current provider to the
village for particular goods and services, where individual purchases may fall
between $5,000 and $20,000, under circumstance where it would be unusually
disruptive to the village to switch to another vendor; and
         (e)   Professional services. Refers to the current vendor approved by
the Board, for professional services of a routine, ongoing nature where the
annual total will exceed $20,000 and individual bills may exceed $20,000.
   (J)   Purchases in excess of budget. The requesting department proposing a
purchase that will exceed the line item budget must first get authorization for
either a budget adjustment or budget relief.
      (1)   Budget adjustment. Departments making the request for a budget
adjustment complete the form showing there are sufficient savings within other
line items within the same fund and department cost centers or that there are
additional revenues directly associated with the request that cover the
additional expenditures. Budget adjustments for the purchase of operational
expenses should be offset from other operational accounts within the fund and
cost center. Adjustments should not be made increasing operational expense
accounts with transfers from a budgeted capital project account if the capital
project is only being deferred to a future year. If the budget adjustment is
between two different department accounts, both department heads must sign the
form.
      (2)   Budget relief. If the proposed purchase cannot be offset by savings
from another expense account or additional revenue, a request for budget relief
authorization can be made to the Village Manager allowing the purchase to
exceed the line item budget.
   (K)   Purchases tolerance rules. If an invoice amount is over the PO
original amount by 5% or less, accounts payable will automatically process the
invoice provided the following conditions apply.
      (1)   The excess dollar amount does not change the purchase from being
under $20,000 to over $20,000.
      (2)   The account the purchase is budgeted in still has sufficient funds,
Accounts Payable Department will automatically process the invoice.
      (3)   The change order does not exceed $50,000.
(Prior Code, § 36.41) (Ord. 2189-92, passed 9-16-1992; Ord. 21-1706, passed 5-
19-2021)
§ 36.047 RESPONSIBLE BIDDER PROCESS.
   (A)   Requirements; procedures.
      (1)   The Village Manager shall prescribe the requirements to be met
where free and open competitive bidding is utilized. The Village Manager shall
also prescribe the procedures by which the bids shall be received, the time
limit upon receiving such bids and the procedure by which the bids shall be
opened, accepted, examined and recommendations made to the Board of Trustees
for acceptance or rejection, as the case may be. All purchases with or without
bid must conform to 720 ILCS 5.
      (2)   All bids and quotations shall provide the following information:
         (a)   Description;
         (b)   Quantity;
         (c)   Price;
         (d)   Delivery time;
         (e)   Shipping charges; and
         (f)   Quantity and payment discounts.
   (B)   Security deposits for bids. On all contracts and purchasing processes
where bidding procedures are utilized, if security deposits/bid bond are
required of the bidders, the following security deposit requirements shall be
met:
      (1)   On all purchases which are below $20,000, a security deposit of
$500 is required;
      (2)   On purchases between $20,000 through $30,000, a security deposit of
$1,000 is required;
      (3)   On purchases between $30,000 through $40,000, a security deposit of
$1,500 is required;
      (4)   On purchases and contracts over $40,000, a security deposit of 5%
of the bid is required;
      (5)   Security deposits shall be in the form of a cashiers or certified
check or bid bond; and
      (6)   The security deposit may be waived with the Village Manager’s
approval.
   (C)   Purchases subject to bidding process.
      (1)   Bidding required; approval and rejection. All purchase orders or
contracts, of whatever nature, for labor, services or work, the purchase, lease
or sale of personal property, materials, equipment or supplies involving
amounts in excess of $20,000 made by or on behalf of the village, shall be let
free and competitive bidding after advertisement, to the lowest responsible
bidder. All bidding shall be in conformance with 720 ILCS 5. The Village
Manager shall recommend the acceptance or rejection of bids for their approval
to the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Evidence of compliance. A responsible bidder shall meet and submit
evidence of compliance with the following:
         (a)   All applicable laws prerequisite to doing business in the state,
including all laws requiring certifications of bidders as to statutorily
required matters;
         (b)   A federal employer tax identification number or social security
number;
         (c)   Certificates of insurance indicating the following coverages:
general liability, workers’ compensation, completed operations, automobile,
hazardous occupation and product liability, in such limits and on such a basis
as may be required from time to time by the Village Manager;
         (d)   Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage
Act, 820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq., including wages, medical and hospitalization
insurance and retirement for those trades covered in the Act;
         (e)   All contractors and subcontractors are required to file
certified payrolls as specified in Illinois Pubic Act 94-0515, and follow all
provisions of the Employee Classification Act (820 ILCS 185/1 et seq.); and
         (f)   All bidders must provide three projects of a similar nature
constructed, completed or performed in the immediate past five years with the
name, address and telephone number of the contact person having knowledge of
the project along with three references (name, address and telephone number)
with knowledge of the integrity and business practices of the bidder.
      (3)   Local preference policy. The village recognizes that local
businesses share income with the community. Therefore, the village seeks to
provide recognition by establishing a policy to give local businesses some
preference when purchasing goods and services.
         (a)   In the process of reviewing bids, the village can allow a 5%
bidding preference up to a maximum of $50,000 (whichever is lower) to a local
vendor.
         (b)   The preferential discount will be applied to the low bid of all
local bidders when determining lowest responsible bid.
         (c)   Any preference of local business may not result in unreasonable
costs to the community or taxpayers nor should it restrict the village from
rejecting inferior products or services.
         (d)   The policy does not apply in situations where external funding
sources do not permit local preference purchasing.
         (e)   The village reserves the right to waive this policy when deemed
appropriate.
         (f)   A local vendor means any business that has established and
maintained a physical presence within the village boundaries via the ownership
or lease of a building for a period of not less than 12 consecutive months and
employees a minimum of two full-time employees and is legally authorized to
conduct business within the state.
      (4)   Change orders. Change orders on construction projects that either
change the scope of the project or exceed 5% of the project must be presented
to the Village Board for approval prior to commencing work pursuant thereto.
   (D)   Exemptions from bidding. The following purchases are exempt from the
requirements detailed in division (C) above:
      (1)   Purchase orders or contracts, for either labor, materials or both,
which, by their nature, are not adaptable to award by competitive bidding, such
as, but not limited to, contracts for the services of individuals possessing a
high degree of professional skill where the ability or fitness of the
individual plays an important part, contracts for supplies, materials, parts or
equipment which are available only from a single source, and contracts for the
printing of the financial reports;
      (2)   All purchase orders or contracts of whatever nature for labor
services or work, the purchase, lease or sale of personal property, materials,
equipment or supplies, wherein the price to be paid by the village is equal to
or less than a price established by open and competitive bidding through either
an agency of the federal government or an agency of the state, within one year
immediately preceding the letting of the proposed contract by the village; and
      (3)   When two-thirds of the Village Trustees elect to waive the
requirements to go to bid for a contract or purchase otherwise required as
detailed in division (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 36.42) (Ord. 07-0530, passed 5-2-2007; Ord. 21-1706, passed 5-
19-2021)
§ 36.048 PAYMENT PROCESSING POLICY.
   (A)   Receiving and inspection. Department heads (or designates) are
responsible for receiving and inspecting all deliveries to their departments to
ensure that items received conform to the specifications and quantities set
forth in the purchase order. All deliveries should be thoroughly inspected to
ensure that materials are received in satisfactory condition, and the invoiced
price is compared to that on the purchase order. Only after all items on a
purchase order have been delivered in an acceptable condition should the
departments submit the appropriate forms to the Finance Department so bills may
be paid. Each vendor must accept returned items for full credit.
   (B)   Invoices payment processing.
      (1)   Approval. All invoices must be approved, via signature or initials,
by a department head, authorized purchaser or Village Manager before payment
will be made.
      (2)   Exemption. If the invoice is exempt from the purchase order process
and is equal to or above $5,000, the invoice will require the signature of the
Village Manager.
      (3)   Invoice information. Invoices should have the following information
included:
         (a)   Payment general ledger account number;
         (b)   Approval signature;
         (c)   Project number/name, if applicable;
         (d)   Resolution or ordinance number, if applicable; and
         (e)   Purchase order number, if applicable.
      (4)   Prompt payment. Invoice and payment information is scheduled to be
included on the vendor list for monthly Board approval. After approval,
accounts payable checks are processed and payments are sent to the vendor. The
village makes every effort to comply with 50 ILCS 505/1 et seq., the Local
Government Prompt Payment Act.
      (5)   Manual/interim checks.
         (a)   Manual checks are disbursed weekly on Friday or the last day of
the week.
         (b)   Manual checks should be avoided if possible, if needed, approval
is needed by the Finance Director for invoices under $20,000 and both the
Village Manager and Finance Director for invoices over $20,000.
         (c)   Per diems and conference fees should be processed through the
regular schedule of bills whenever possible.
         (d)   All approved invoices and required documentation must be turned
into accounts payable by Wednesday or two days before the manual check run if
last day of work week is different.
         (e)   The Finance Department will prepare a separate schedule of bills
indicating all manual/interim disbursements not having the prior approval of
the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
         (f)   The manual/interim check schedule will be submitted at the first
available regularly scheduled Board meeting for ratification.
         (g)   The request, excluding purchases exempt from the purchase order
process, must be submitted on a purchase order and all other purchasing
procedures must be followed before the check is issued.
      (6)   Petty cash expenditures. The village has established a petty cash
fund to be used for reimbursements or purchases under $50. All requests for
reimbursements shall have prior approval by the department head and shall be
accompanied by a receipt. Any purchases or reimbursements in excess of $50
shall follow the normal purchasing procedures. Records of all payments made
from the petty cash account shall be kept by the Village Manager or designee
and audited at least once annually.
(Prior Code, § 36.43) (Ord. 2189-92, passed 9-16-1992; Ord. 2234-93, passed 7-
21-1993; Ord. 07-0530, passed 5-2-2007; Ord. 09-0777, passed 8-5-2009; Ord. 13-
1059, passed 8-7-2013; Ord. 21-1706, passed 5-19-2021)
§ 36.049 PROCUREMENT CARD/CREDIT CARD PURCHASES.
   The purchase (credit) card program is intended to streamline and simplify
purchasing and is not intended to avoid or bypass appropriate procurement or
payment procedures. Rather, the program complements the existing processes
available. The purchase card also gives personnel an opportunity to make
practical decisions in obtaining products or services for which they are
knowledgeable and reduces administrative burdens. The cardholder needs to
remember that they are committing village funds each time the purchasing card
is used. This is a responsibility that should not be taken lightly. The
cardholder is the person responsible for all charges made to the card.
Intentional misuse or fraudulent abuse may result in disciplinary action up to
and including dismissal and recovery of all unauthorized purchases.
(Prior Code, § 36.44) (Ord. 2189-92, passed 9-16-1992; Ord. 21-1706, passed 5-
19-2021)
§ 36.050 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY/ NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village that all potential suppliers shall
have an equal opportunity to submit bids or quotations and to compete on an
equal basis for the village business.
   (B)   All purchase orders and contracts to which the village is party shall
contain a nondiscrimination in employment clause which provides:
“The vendor agrees that in performing under this purchase order with the
contracting municipality, not to discriminate against any worker, employee or
applicant, or any member of the public because of race, religion, color,
national origin or sex, ancestry, age, marital status, physical or mental
handicap, or unfavorable discharge from military service. The vendor further
agrees that this clause will be incorporated in all contracts entered into with
suppliers of materials or services who may perform any such labor or services
in connection with this contract.”
   (C)   Even if such clause is not included, the above clause shall be
construed to be incorporated as a part of such purchase orders and contracts.
(Prior Code, § 36.45) (Ord. 2189-92, passed 9-16-1992)
§ 36.051 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   (A)   Cooperative purchasing between the village and the state and other
local governments can result in significant savings on the purchase price of
many items.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village to enter into cooperative purchasing
agreements when:
      (1)   Substantial savings will result;
      (2)   Quality, availability or service will not be sacrificed;
      (3)   The village will be separately billed for its purchases; and
      (4)   Ordered items will be delivered directly to the village (unless
otherwise agreed upon).
(Prior Code, § 36.46) (Ord. 2189-92, passed 9-16-1992)
§ 36.052 RECEIVING AND INSPECTION.
   Department heads (or their designates) are responsible for receiving and
inspecting all deliveries to their departments to ensure that items received
conform to the specifications and quantities set forth in the purchase order.
All deliveries should be thoroughly inspected to ensure that materials are
received in satisfactory condition, and the invoiced price is compared to that
on the purchase order. Only after all items on a purchase order have been
delivered in an acceptable condition should the departments submit the
appropriate forms to the Finance Department so bills may be paid. Each vendor
must accept returned items for full credit. All bills will eventually appear on
the vendor list for monthly Board approval. The village will make every effort
to comply with 50 ILCS 505/1, the Local Government Prompt Payment Act.
(Prior Code, § 36.47) (Ord. 2189-92, passed 9-16-1992)
§ 36.053 INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Any vendor, supplier, contractor or bidder on a contract shall submit
to the village in writing a disclosure statement provided by the village in
conformity with 65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10 stating, if applicable, any interest that
any person associated with that vendor, supplier or bidder might have in the
government of the village, including serving on an advisory panel or
commission, and including service as an employee of the village. Such
disclosure statement shall further provide all information reasonably required
in response to the requirements of this section. In cases where the expense of
a contract, bid or proposal exceeds the sum of $100,000, the vendor, supplier,
contractor or bidder shall also identify the names of all persons holding an
ownership interest in the vendor, supplier or bidder in excess of 1% who are
related as spouse, parent, child, sibling, aunt, uncle or cousin to any person
then holding elected office or any employment position with the village. In the
event that any part of the contract, bid or proposal in question is to be
subcontracted to one or more subcontractors (including materials suppliers) or
to one or more tiers of subcontractors (including materials suppliers), the
vendor, supplier, contractor or bidder in question shall also cause the
foregoing information to be provided with respect to all subcontractors
(including materials suppliers) in all subcontracting tiers. The truthfulness
and accuracy of the disclosure statement shall be the responsibility of the
vendor, supplier, contractor or bidder in question. The failure to supply the
disclosure statement required hereunder shall constitute grounds for rejecting
any bid, proposal or award of a contract.
   (B)   No vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor shall be eligible to enter
into any contract with the village having a value or expense in excess of
$100,000 where a person holding an ownership interest in excess of 1% in such
vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor is related as spouse, parent, child,
sibling, aunt, uncle or cousin to any person then holding elected office or any
employment position with the village, where such employment position in any way
involves the review or approval of bids, contracts, proposals or purchases. In
cases where all or a portion of such contract is to be subcontracted to one or
more subcontractors (including materials suppliers) or to one or more tiers of
subcontractors (including materials suppliers), a vendor, supplier, bidder or
contractor shall not be eligible to enter into any such contract with the
village if a person holding an ownership interest in excess of 1% in any
subcontractor in any tier of subcontractors is related as spouse, parent,
child, sibling, aunt, uncle or cousin to any person then holding elected office
or any employment position with the village where such employment position in
any way involves the review or approval of bids, contracts, proposals or
purchases.
   (C)   No vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor shall be eligible to enter
into any contract with the village having a value or expense in excess of
$100,000 (or any group or series of multiple contracts that, in a given
calendar year or given fiscal year of the village, has an aggregate value or
expense in excess of $100,000) if such vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor
then employs any elected village official or any village employee, or then
possesses or maintains any compensated independent contracting or consulting
relationship with any elected village official or any village employee.
   (D)   No vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor shall be eligible to enter
into any contract with the village having a value or expense in excess of
$100,000 (or any group or series of multiple contracts that, in a given
calendar year or given fiscal year of the village, has an aggregate value or
expense in excess of $100,000) if such vendor, supplier, bidder or contractor
then employs or possesses or maintains any compensated independent contracting
or consulting relationship with any individual who was employed by the village
or served as an elected official of the village at any time during the
preceding two years.
   (E)   By a vote of two-thirds of the Village Trustees then holding office,
the provisions of this section may be waived with respect to any contract
otherwise subject to these provisions where such a waiver is deemed to be
advantageous to the village, and such waiver shall be recited in the
legislation authorizing the execution of any such contract.
   (F)   As used in this section, references to vendors, suppliers, contractors
or bidders and the like shall exclude any governmental body or entity with
which the village may contract with from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 36.48) (Ord. 2271-94, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 12-0995, passed 6-
20-2012; Ord. 20-1661, passed 11-4-2020)
§ 36.054 VILLAGE FINANCIAL PLANNING POLICIES.
   The Financial Planning Policies of the village are set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter. These policies shall guide the village in planning
for, preparing and implementing village budgets, and in managing village
financial business throughout the year.
(Ord. 24-1901, passed 2-21-2024)
**** IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM ****
§ 36.065 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this identity theft prevention program (program) is to
protect customers of the village’s utility services from identity theft. The
program is intended to establish reasonable policies and procedures to
facilitate the detection, prevention and mitigation of identity theft in
connection with the opening of new covered accounts and activity on existing
covered accounts.
(Prior Code, § 36.60) (Ord. 08-0723, passed 10-15-2008)
§ 36.066 SCOPE.
   This program applies to the creation, modification and access to identifying
information of a customer of the utilities operated by the village and all
employees. This program does not replace or repeal any previously existing
policies or programs addressing some or all of the activities that are the
subject of this program, but rather it is intended to supplement any such
existing policies and programs.
(Prior Code, § 36.61) (Ord. 08-0723, passed 10-15-2008)
§ 36.067 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COVERED ACCOUNT. An account that the village offers or maintains,
primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves or is
designed to permit multiple payments of transactions (16 C.F.R. § 681.1(b)(3)
(i)). A utility account is a COVERED ACCOUNT. The term COVERED ACCOUNT also
includes other accounts offered or maintained by the village for which there is
a reasonably foreseeable risk to the village or its customers from identity
theft (16 C.F.R. § 681.1(b)(3)(ii)).
      IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including any name, social security number, date of birth, official state or
government issued driver’s license or identification number, alien registration
number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number.
Additional examples of IDENTIFYING INFORMATION are set forth in 12 C.F.R. §
1022.3(g).
      IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using the identifying
information of another person without authority (16 C.F.R. § 681.1(b)(8) and 12
C.F.R. § 1022.3(h)).
      RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   (B)   Certain terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the
meanings given to them in the FTC’s Identity Theft Rules (16 C.F.R. pt. 681) or
the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq.), as amended
by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 into law on December
4, 2003 (Pub. Law No. 108-159, codified at 15 U.S.C. ch. 41, subch. I, §§ 1601
et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 36.62) (Ord. 08-0723, passed 10-15-2008)
§ 36.068 ADMINISTRATION OF THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The initial adoption and approval of the program shall be by ordinance
of the Village Board. Thereafter, changes to the program of a day-to-day
operational character and decisions relating to the interpretation and
implementation of the program may be made by the Finance Director who shall be
the Program Administrator. Major revisions of this policy shall be approved by
the Village Board.
   (B)   Development, implementation, administration and oversight of the
program will be the responsibility of the Program Administrator. The Program
Administrator will report at least annually to the Village Board regarding
compliance with this program.
   (C)   Issues to be addressed in the annual identity theft prevention report
include:
      (1)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures in addressing the
risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of new covered accounts
and activity with respect to existing covered accounts;
      (2)   Service provider arrangements;
      (3)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
      (4)   Recommendations for material changes to the program, if needed, for
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 36.63) (Ord. 08-0723, passed 10-15-2008)
§ 36.069 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION ELEMENTS.
   (A)   Identification of relevant red flags.
      (1)   The village has considered the guidelines and the illustrative
examples of possible red flags from the FTC’s Identity Theft Rules and has
reviewed the village’s past history with instances of identity theft, if any.
      (2)   The village determines that the following are the relevant red
flags for purposes of this program given the relative size of the village and
the limited nature and scope of the services that the village provides to its
citizens:
         (a)   Alerts, notifications or other warnings received from consumer
reporting agencies or service providers: a consumer reporting agency alerts the
village of a credit freeze, address disparity or that an account has been noted
to have abusive or fraudulent activity;
         (b)   The presentation of suspicious documents:
            1.   Documents provided for ID do not appear to be genuine and
unaltered;
            2.   The photo or physical description is not consistent with the
appearance of the applicant; and
            3.   Information given to open the account is not consistent with
the ID of the applicant.
      (c)   The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information,
such as a suspicious address change:
         1.   Personal ID is of the same type associated with fraudulent
activity: fictitious address, mailbox drop or prison or phone number is
invalid; it is associated with a pager or answering service;
         2.   Personal ID provided is associated with known fraudulent
activity;
         3.   Personal ID is inconsistent with utility records; and
         4.   The customer fails to provide all needed personal ID upon
request.
      (d)   The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a
covered account:
         1.   The utility is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions
in connection with a customer’s account;
         2.   Customer notifies utility that they are not receiving their bill;
         3.   Mail sent to customer is repeatedly returned; and
         4.   Payments are made in a manner associated with fraud. For example,
a deposit or initial payment is made and no payments are made thereafter.
      (e)   Notice of possible identity theft: utility is notified by law
enforcement officials or others, that it has opened a fraudulent account for a
person engaged in identity theft.
   (B)   Detection of red flags.
      (1)   The employees of the village that interact directly with customers
on a day-to-day basis shall have the initial responsibility for monitoring the
information and documentation provided by the customer and any third-party
service provider in connection with the opening of new accounts and the
modification of or access to existing accounts and the detection of any red
flags that might arise. Management shall see to it that all employees who might
be called upon to assist a customer with the opening of a new account or with
modifying or otherwise accessing an existing account are properly trained such
that they have a working familiarity with the relevant red flags identified in
this program so as to be able to recognize any red flags that might surface in
connection with the transaction.
      (2)   An employee who is not sufficiently trained to recognize the red
flags identified in this program shall not open a new account for any customer,
modify any existing account or otherwise provide any customer with access to
information in an existing account without the direct supervision and specific
approval of a management employee. Management employees shall be properly
trained such that they can recognize the relevant red flags identified in this
program and exercise sound judgment in connection with the response to any
unresolved red flags that may present themselves in connection with the opening
of a new account or with modifying or accessing of an existing account.
Management employees shall be responsible for making the final decision on any
such unresolved red flags.
      (3)   The Program Administrator shall establish from time to time a
written policy setting forth the manner in which a prospective new customer my
apply for service, the information and documentation to be provided by the
prospective customer in connection with an application for a new utility
service account, the steps to be taken by the employee assisting the customer
with the application in verifying the customer’s identity and the manner in
which the information and documentation provided by the customer and any third-
party service provider shall be maintained. Such policy shall be generally
consistent with the spirit of the Customer Identification Program Rules (31
C.F.R. § 1020.220) implementing § 326(a) of the USA Patriot Act, being 31
U.S.C. § 5318(1), but need not be as detailed. The Program Administrator shall
establish from time to time a written policy setting forth the manner in which
customers with existing accounts shall establish their identity before being
allowed to make modifications to or otherwise gain access to existing accounts.
   (C)   Response to detected red flags.
      (1)   If the responsible employees of the village as set forth in the
previous division are unable, after making a good faith effort, to form a
reasonable belief that they know the true identity of a customer attempting to
open a new account or modify or otherwise access an existing account based on
the information and documentation provided by the customer and any third-party
service provider, the village shall not open the new account or modify or
otherwise provide access to the existing account as the case may be. Opening
new accounts or the modification or access to existing accounts will be on a
nondiscriminatory basis based on the village’s policies.
      (2)   (a)   The Program Administrator shall establish from time to time a
written policy setting forth the steps to be taken in the event of an
unresolved red flag situation. Consideration should be given to aggravating
factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security
incident that results in unauthorized access to a customer’s account, or a
notice that a customer has provided account information to a fraudulent
individual or website.
         (b)   Appropriate responses to prevent or mitigate identity theft when
a red flag is detected include:
            1.   Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
            2.   Contacting the customer;
            3.   Changing any passwords, security codes or other security
devices that permit access to a covered account;
            4.   Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
            5.   Not opening a new covered account;
            6.   Closing an existing covered account;
            7.   Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling
a covered account to a debt collector;
            8.   Notifying law enforcement; and
            9.   Determining that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 36.64) (Ord. 08-0723, passed 10-15-2008)
§ 36.070 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
   (A)   Initial risk assessment - covered accounts. Utility accounts for
personal, family and household purposes are specifically included within the
definition of “covered account” in the FTC’s Identity Theft Rules. Therefore,
the village determines that with respect to its utility accounts it offers and/
or maintains covered accounts. The village also performed an initial risk
assessment to determine whether the utility offers or maintains any other
accounts for which there are reasonably foreseeable risks to customers or the
utility from identity theft. In making this determination, the village
considered the methods it uses to open its accounts, the methods it uses to
access its accounts and its previous experience with identity theft and it
concluded that it does not offer or maintain any such other covered accounts.
   (B)   Program updates - risk assessment.
      (1)   The program, including relevant red flags, is to be updated as
often as necessary but at least annually to reflect changes in risks to
customers from identity theft.
      (2)   Factors to consider in the program update include:
         (a)   An assessment of the risk factors identified above;
         (b)   Any identified red flag weaknesses in associated account systems
or procedures;
         (c)   Changes in methods of identity theft;
         (d)   Changes in methods to detect, prevent and mitigate identity
theft; and
         (e)   Changes in business arrangements, including mergers,
acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures and service provider arrangements.
   (C)   Training and oversight. All staff and third-party service providers
performing any activity in connection with one or more covered accounts are to
be provided appropriate training and receive effective oversight to ensure that
the activity is conducted in accordance with policies and procedures designed
to detect, prevent and mitigate the risk of identity theft.
(Prior Code, § 36.65) (Ord. 08-0723, passed 10-15-2008)
§ 36.071 OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Awareness of the following related legal requirements should be maintained:
   (A)   31 U.S.C. § 5318(g) - Reporting of Suspicious Activities;
   (B)   15 U.S.C. § 1681 c-1(h) - Identity Theft Prevention; Fraud Alerts and
Active Duty Alerts - Limitations on Use of Information for Credit Extensions;
   (C)   15 U.S.C. § 1681 s-2 - Responsibilities of Furnishers of information
to Consumer Reporting Agencies; and
   (D)   15 U.S.C. § 1681 m - Requirements on Use of Consumer Reports.
(Prior Code, § 36.66) (Ord. 08-0723, passed 10-15-2008)
**** EXPENSE POLICY ****
§ 36.085 EXPENSE POLICY.
   (A)   The village departments and budget section allow only for the training
of board and commission members and employees to maintain current technological
and philosophical trends and to maintain sound management prerogatives towards
the delivery of services.
   (B)   To provide contemporary business practices within a defined framework,
to eliminate overexpenditures of funds allocated when an employee or member
attends a training seminar, symposium, workshop, meeting or conference.
      (1)   Board members, commission members, committee members or employees
designated to attend shall prepare the official expense report provided by the
Department of Finance and return the report to the Department within seven days
after return from the seminar.
      (2)   Receipts of expenditures or other valid documentation shall be
attached to the report to verify the actual amount, when receipts are
obtainable.
      (3)   Actual costs for meals, lodging or coach airfare or round-trip auto
(whichever is less) shall be based upon state rates.
      (4)   For a meeting, workshop, seminar or conference whose duration is
more than a day, an employee or official may be allotted up to $50 per day of
actual expenses incurred.
      (5)   Spouse’s daily attendance fees and banquet charges may be included
in the per diem rate.
      (6)   Entertainment expenses shall not be included.
   (C)   This policy and procedure shall act as a general guide for department
and sections to administer.
   (D)   This policy and procedure may be amended from time to time to allow
for change in trends, methods and different rates of conference cities.
   (E)   More than one out-of-state conference shall need Village Board
approval.
(Prior Code, § 41.01) (Res. 458-86, passed 6-18-1986)
APPENDIX A: VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE FINANCIAL PLANNING POLICIES
 
The Village of Romeoville’s Financial Policies are the basic guidelines for the
management of the Village’s financial operations have been developed within the
parameters set forth in the Illinois State Statute and Romeoville Municipal
Code. These policies assist the Village Board and management in preparing the
budget and managing the Village’s fiscal affairs throughout the year. The
policies are to be reviewed during the budget process, and modified as
appropriate, to accommodate changing fiscal conditions, environmental
challenges and Board policy initiatives. In addition to these Financial
Policies the Village has separately issued and approved comprehensive policies
on Purchasing, Investments and Capital Assets.
General
The Village of Romeoville has a commitment to sound financial management. This
section outlines the formal policies to maintain this commitment.
Budget Planning Policies
1.   Budget development is directed by goals and objectives of the Village as
included in the Comprehensive Plan, Village Strategic Goals, and Department
Goals and Objectives.
2.   The Budget must be developed complying with the relevant financial
policies and maintain a balanced operational budget. A balanced operational
budget is defined as avoiding the drawdown of fund balance from regular
operations by ensuring that regular revenue meets or exceeds the budgeted
amount for regular expenditures.
3.   The Budget document must provide enough detail to enable accurate
projections of revenues and expenses, separation of capital and operational
items, cash flow and subsequent audit trails, and disclosure of planning
assumptions.
4.   Staff cannot plan the expenditure in any fiscal year of more funds than
are conservatively projected to be available in that period or fail to provide
for appropriate fund balances at year-end.
5.   The budget (including the tax levy, tax abatements, and long-term debt)
must be approved by the Board prior to implementation except for a temporary
continuation of the prior year’s budget.
6.   The Finance Director must provide a monthly report to the Finance
Committee on budget performance, including a comparison of actual revenues and
expenditures to budgeted amounts.
7.   The Village prepares a five-year capital improvement financial plan that
supplements the annual budget and is used to determine funding needs for the
capital improvement plan.
8.   The Village must pass and file with the Will County Clerk a combined
annual Budget and Appropriation Ordinance. The ordinance appropriates the
monies that are necessary to cover the projected expenses and liabilities that
the Village may incur during the fiscal year. The Board and staff must follow
the procedures listed below when preparing and filing the Ordinance:
•   The Ordinance must be adopted within or before the first quarter of each
fiscal year.
•   The Ordinance shall contain a statement of cash on hand at the beginning of
the fiscal year, an estimate of monies expected to be received during the
fiscal year from all sources, an estimate of expenditures for the fiscal year,
and an estimate of cash on hand at the end of the fiscal year.
•   The Ordinance must be prepared in tentative form and made available for
public inspection no less than ten (10) days prior to final action.
•   The Board must hold at least one (1) public hearing regarding the
ordinance. Notice of the public hearing shall be given by publication in a
newspaper published within Romeoville or having general circulation within
Romeoville at least ten (10) days before the time of the hearing. The hearing
may take place at the same meeting that final action is taken on the Ordinance.
•   After Village Board approval, the Village must file a certified copy of the
ordinance with the Will County Clerks within thirty (30) days.
9.   State law is followed when preparing and adopting the tax levy including:
•   A certified copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the Will County Clerk
no later than the last Tuesday in December of each year.
Revenue Planning Policies
1.   The Village endeavors to maintain a diverse and stable revenue base to
protect operations from short-term fluctuations in any one revenue source. The
mix of various revenues employed will include both elastic and inelastic
revenue sources to minimize to the extent possible the effects of economic
downturn.
2.   The Village will employ, where appropriate, various available economic
development incentive tools, which will add to long-term revenue stability and
growth.
3.   The Village will monitor changes in key revenues on a quarterly basis and
report on significant changes in collections or emerging trends.
4.   The Village will oppose State and/or Federal legislation that would result
in unfunded expense mandates to units of local government without providing for
compensating authority to increase available revenues to offset such mandates.
5.   Village enterprise funds (Water and Sewer) shall have fees set in such a
manner which fully support all direct and indirect costs associated with
providing the service.
6.   The Village will avoid the use of one-time or intermittent revenues to
support continuing operating expenses.
7.   The Village implements user fees to cover the cost of services provided
for unique or narrow segments of the Village. User fees are typically set at
levels to cover 100% of the cost of providing the service, however the Village
may choose to set a user fee at less than 100% of the service cost and
subsidize with other revenue as it deems necessary. An additional fee may also
be assessed for non-resident users of the specified services.
8.   The Village will explore to the extent practicable the award of various
local, State and/or Federal grants to support one-time capital or non-recurring
expenditures. Consideration of grant opportunities shall include an evaluation
of required local matching funds and possible on-going operating costs
associated with accepting grant funding.
Expenditure Planning Policies
1.   The Village Board and staff should not indebt the organization beyond
normal accruals and accounts payables.
2.   The Board and staff should not allow cash to drop below the amount needed
to settle payroll and debts in a timely manner.
3.   The Board and staff should not expend more funds than have been made
available in the fiscal year to date unless the debt guideline is met.
4.   The Village must make prompt payment of purchases as provided by the Local
Government Prompt Payment Act of Illinois.
5.   The Village will continually assess its organization and service provision
efforts in order to provide service enhancements or cost reductions by
increasing efficiency.
6.   The Village will attempt to maximize its financial resources by
encouraging intergovernmental cooperation. The establishment of
intergovernmental service agreements with other units of government may allow
the Village to provide residents with a higher level of service at a reduced
cost.
Fund Balance Reserve Policies
1.   Purpose - Fund balance is to provide for the operational stability of the
Village of Romeoville and to provide the capacity to a) offset significant
economic downturns or revenue shortfalls, b) provide sufficient cash flow for
daily financial needs, c) maintain or improve the Village’s bond ratings, and
d) provide funds for unforeseen expenditures related to emergencies or
opportunities.
2.   Definitions - GASB Statement 54 distinguishes fund balance classified
based on the relative strength of the constraints that control the purposes for
which specified amounts can be spent. Beginning with the most restrictive
constraints, fund balance amounts will be reported in the following categories:
•   Not spendable fund balance - amounts that are not in a spendable form
(e.g., inventory) or are legally or contractually required to be maintained
intact (e.g., permanent fund principal).
•   Restricted fund balance - amounts that can be spent only for the specific
purposes stipulated by external parties either constitutionally or through
enabling legislation (e.g., grants or donations).
•   Committed fund balance - amounts that can be used only for the specific
purposes determined by a formal action of the Village Board. Commitments may be
changed or lifted only by referring to the formal action that imposed the
constraint originally (e.g., the board’s commitment in connection with future
construction projects).
•   Assigned fund balance - amounts intended to be used by the government for
specific purposes. Intent can be expressed by the Village Board of Trustees, or
someone designated by the Village Board. In governmental funds other than the
general fund, assigned fund balance represents the amount that is not
restricted or committed. This indicates that resources in other governmental
funds are, at a minimum, intended to be used for the purpose of that fund.
•   Unassigned fund balance - includes all amounts not contained in other
classifications and is the residual classification of the general fund only.
Unassigned amounts are available for any legal purpose.
3.   Policy - The responsibility for designating funds to specific
classifications shall be as follows:
•   Committed Fund Balance - The Village Board of Trustees is the Village of
Romeoville’s highest level of decision-making authority, and the formal action
that is required to be taken to establish, modify, or rescind a fund balance
commitment is a resolution approved by the Board.
•   Assigned Fund Balance - The Board of Trustees has authorized the Village
Manager and/or the Village Finance Director as officials authorized to assign
fund balance to a specific purpose as approved by this fund balance policy.
4.   Fund Balance Targets
•   General Fund: Unassigned fund balance of the General Fund should be
maintained at a minimum of 25% of the subsequent year’s budget for expenditures
and other financing uses. The fund balance benchmark is higher than other funds
due to the fact that a large percentage of its fund balance consists of taxes
receivable and other accounts receivable, which are collected over a period of
up to three months. In addition, the General Fund’s primary sources of revenue
tend to be more elastic and can decrease and increase along with the economy.
If the unassigned balance falls below its goal, the Village shall develop a
restoration plan to achieve and maintain the minimum fund balance.
•   Motor Fuel Tax Fund: Fund balance of the Motor Fuel Tax fund should be
maintained at 10% of the subsequent year’s budget for expenditures and other
uses. Fund Balance in the Motor Fuel Tax Fund is restricted for construction
and maintenance roadways, street lighting, storm sewers, pedestrian paths. All
projects and expenditures must be approved in advance by the Illinois
Department of Transportation.
•   Local Motor Fuel Tax Fund: Fund balance of the Local Motor Fuel Tax fund
should be maintained at 10% of the subsequent year’s budget for expenditures
and other uses.
•   Recreation Funds: Fund balance of the Recreation Fund should be maintained
at 25% of the combined subsequent year’s budgeted expenditures of the
Recreation function funds with include the Recreation Fund, the Recreation A&E,
and Recreation Aquatic Center.
•   Debt Service Funds: The Debt Service Fund is established to account for
financial resources that are restricted, committed, or assigned to expenditures
for principal and interest. Any fund balance accumulation should be minimal or
enough to cover the next principal and interest payment due.
•   Capital Project Funds: Fund balance for the various capital project funds
can and will vary based on capital projects plan. Balances are impacted by bond
sales which may be drawn down over a period of one to three years as the
projects are completed. The balances are also impacted by grant advances and
reimbursements. Fund balance in the capital projects funds will be reviewed
annually as part of the capital improvement program and annual budget process.
•   Normantown Road Business District: Fund balance of the Normantown Road
Business District Fund should be maintained at 10% of the subsequent year’s
budget for expenditures and other uses.
•   Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Redevelopment Funds - Fund balance for the
Village’s TIF funds will vary based on the development projects planned within
the TIF. The TIF funds account for the resources that are legally restricted
for redevelopment within each TIF boundary. The balances are impacted by
property taxes, bond sales, debt repayment, and redevelopment expenses. Fund
balance in each individual TIF fund will be reviewed annually as part of the
capital improvement program and annual budget process.
•   Water & Sewer Fund: The unrestricted fund balance of the Water & Sewer fund
should be maintained at 25% of the subsequent year’s budget for operating and
non-operating expenses, plus a prorated amount of the next interest and
principal payments on outstanding debt. Additional fund equity can be reserved
for future capital improvements as determined by the Village Board.
•   Police and Firefighter’s Pension Funds: The long-term goal for the net
assets of the police and firefighters pension funds is to be equivalent to the
actuarial accrued liability as determined by an enrolled actuary. The Village
uses generally accepted actuarial methods to amortize any unfunded actuarial
accrued liability through the year 2040.
Capital Improvement Planning Policies
1.   The Village shall maintain a Capital Improvement Plan and capital
improvements will be made in accordance with that plan. The Plan should be
updated annually.
2.   As part of the development of the Capital Improvement Plan, the condition
of the Village’s infrastructure will be evaluated to appropriately prioritize
and schedule maintenance and replacement.
3.   The Capital Improvement Plan will be developed using a team approach and
prior to completing the operating budget to ensure adequate resources are
available to fund all the projects in the Plan.
4.   Projects are evaluated using the following criteria:
•   Eliminates a threat to personal and public safety;
•   Satisfies or meets a legal requirement, liability or mandate that must be
addressed (law, regulation or court order);
•   Addresses completing a project commitment with dedicated funding and/or
leverages available private or local, state or federal government funds;
•   Advances the implementation of the Village’s mission, vision, strategy,
goals or policies;
•   Improves the positive impact on the environment and reduces carbon
footprint;
•   Rehabilitates or replaces a facility or equipment that has reached the end
of its useful life and/or preserves existing resources/return on investment;
•   Reduces future maintenance or operating costs;
•   Results in generating net revenue that exceeds the direct operational cost
of facility/equipment and creates a profit without using tax revenue;
•   Provides new or expanded level of service;
•   Promotes intergovernmental cooperation and other partnership opportunities;
•   Provides enhanced safety.
5.   The corresponding year of the Capital Improvement Plan will be
incorporated into the annual budget as the Capital Budget. Projects slated for
subsequent years are approved on a planning basis only.
6.   The Village defines a capital project as having a relatively high monetary
value with an initial, individual cost of more than $25,000 for machinery and
equipment, $100,000 for property or building improvements, and $150,000 for
infrastructure and an estimated useful life in excess of one year.
7.   Funding for the Capital Improvement Plan includes accumulated budget
surpluses in the form of fund balances, user or development fees, taxes, grants
plus debt management.
Debt Planning Policies
1.   The Village will limit long-term borrowing to capital improvements,
redevelopment, or long-term projects that cannot be financed from current
revenues or reserves.
2.   The maturity date for any debt will not exceed the reasonable expected
useful life of the project to be funded or negatively impact the marketability
of the bonds.
3.   The Village will avoid the issuance of Budget, Tax, and Revenue
Anticipation Notes.
4.   The Village will maintain good communications with financial and bond
rating agencies regarding its financial condition.
5.   The Village retains external bond counsel for all debt issuances to ensure
compliance with applicable Federal and State tax and other laws and regulations
pertaining to public financing. The Village will not issue debt without a
written opinion by bond counsel.
6.   The Village will retain an external financial advisor to be utilized in
selected debt issuances.
Cash Management Planning Policies
1.   The Village has adopted an Investment Policy, which provides guidelines
for the prudent investment of temporary idle cash and outlines the policies for
maximizing the efficiency of the cash management system. The ultimate goal is
to enhance the economic status of the Village while protecting its pooled cash.
2.   Except for cash in certain restricted and special funds, the Village will
consolidate cash balances from all funds to maximize investment earnings.
Investment income will be allocated to the various funds based on their
respective participation and in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.
3.   The Village’s cash management system is designed to accurately monitor and
forecast expenditures and revenues, thus enabling the Village to invest funds
to the fullest extent possible.
4.   Criteria for selecting investments and the order of priority are: safety,
liquidity, and yield.
Financial Reporting Planning Policies
1.   The Village will adhere to a policy of full and open public disclosure of
all financial operations. The proposed budget will be prepared in a manner
maximizing its understanding by citizens and elected officials. Copies of
financial documents will be made available to all interested parties.
Opportunities will be provided for full citizen participation prior to final
adoption of the budget.
2.   The Village’s accounting system will maintain records on a basis
consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. All funds must be
received, processed, or disbursed under controls sufficient to meet the Board-
appointed auditor’s standards.
3.   The Village will prepare a regular monthly financial report to the finance
committee presenting a summary of financial activity by major types of funds
and programs.
4.   As required by law, the Village conducts an annual audit of all funds,
property, and financial practices by an independent certified public accounting
firm, conducted according to Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS).
5.   The Village will prepare an Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR),
obtain Board approval and make the report available to the general public, bond
and financial consultants, and other interested organizations.
(Ord. 24-1901, passed 2-21-2024)
CHAPTER 37: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND POLICIES
Section
Police Pension Fund
   
37.001   Creation
   
37.002   Power to levy tax
   
37.003   Monies constituting the fund
Social Security Benefits
   
37.015   Social Security policy
   
37.016   Village President authorized to execute agreement
   
37.017   Agreement incorporated by reference
   
37.018   Withholdings
   
37.019   Employer contributions
   
37.020   Treasurer’s reports
Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
   
37.035   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
   
37.036   Employer-paid employee contributions
   
37.037   Service credit for military service prior to IMRF participation
Residency Requirements
   
37.050   Positions requiring village residency
   
37.051   Residency date required for new employees
Intergovernmental Risk Management Agency
   
37.065   Participation in Agency
   
37.066   Agency powers
   
37.067   Village liability
Use of Village Vehicles
   
37.080   Use of village vehicles by employees
Employee Recognition Program
   
37.095   Employee recognition program
Village Safety Manual
   
37.110   Adoption of village safety manual
Ethical Conduct
   
37.125   Definitions
   
37.126   Prohibited political activities
   
37.127   Gift ban
   
37.128   Ethics Advisor
   
37.129   Ethics Commission
Elected Officials
   
37.140   Establishment of alternate retired elected official benefits
   
37.141   Prohibited elected officials’ compensation
   
37.142   Elected officials’ health insurance benefits
   
34.143   Elected officials’ compensation adjustments; license and incentive
agreement eligibility
   
37.144   Elected officials’ administrative compliance
Voluntary Retirement Program
   
37.155   Voluntary retirement plan for regular full-time employees adopted
Paid Leave
   
37.170   State Paid Leave for All Workers Act
 
   
37.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Employee Handbook
**** POLICE PENSION FUND ****
§ 37.001 CREATION.
   There is created and established a Police Pension Fund in accordance with
the statutes of this state.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. 222, passed 10-22-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Police Pension Fund, see 40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
§ 37.002 POWER TO LEVY TAX.
   The Village Board of Trustees shall annually levy a tax on all the taxable
property in the village at the rate on the dollar of all taxable property which
will produce an amount which, when added to the deductions from the salaries or
wages of police officer and receipts available from all other sources as
hereinafter referred to, will equal a sufficient sum to meet the annual
requirements of the Pension Fund under the statutes of this state.
(Prior Code, § 37.02) (Ord. 222, passed 10-22-1963)
§ 37.003 MONIES CONSTITUTING THE FUND.
   All monies derived from the taxes levied hereunder and the following monies
shall be set apart by the Treasurer of this village to constitute the Police
Pension Fund.
   (A)   A percentage, as set forth by the State Department of Insurance per
month, shall be paid or deducted from the salary of each police officer. The
State Department of Insurance changes the percentage from time to time.
Therefore, a flat per cent, per month rate can no longer be set forth.
   (B)   All monies that may have been accumulated by this village in
conformity with any previous legislation establishing a fund for the benefit of
disabled or superannuated police officers.
(Prior Code, § 37.03) (Ord. 222, passed 10-22-1963)
**** SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS ****
§ 37.015 SOCIAL SECURITY POLICY.
   It is the policy and purpose of the village to extend to the eligible
employees thereof, effective as of January 1, 1970, the benefits of the Federal
Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance provisions of the Federal Social
Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 402 et seq., and amendments thereto. In
pursuance of this policy, and for that purpose, the Village President shall
take such action as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 37.10) (Ord. 291, passed 12-3-1969)
Statutory reference:
   Social Security Enabling Act, see 40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.
§ 37.016 VILLAGE PRESIDENT AUTHORIZED TO EXECUTE AGREEMENT.
   The Village President is authorized and directed to execute an agreement
with the Social Security Unit of the State Employees’ Retirement System to
secure coverage of eligible employees as provided in §
37.015.
(Prior Code, § 37.11) (Ord. 291, passed 12-3-1969)
§ 37.017 AGREEMENT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The agreement between the village and State Employee’s Retirement System is
incorporated herein as if fully set out in this code.
(Prior Code, § 37.12)
§ 37.018 WITHHOLDINGS.
   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose provided in
§
37.015 are authorized to be made in the amounts and at such time as may be
required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations. The withholdings
shall be paid over to the state agency in such amounts and at such times as are
designated by state laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 37.13) (Ord. 291, passed 12-3-1969)
Statutory reference:
   State Agency, see 40 ILCS 5/21-102.3
§ 37.019 EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Employer contributions and administrative expense shall be paid to the state
agency in accordance with applicable state laws and regulations from amounts
appropriated for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 37.14) (Ord. 291, passed 12-3-1969)
§ 37.020 TREASURER’S REPORTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall maintain such records and submit such reports as
may be required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 37.15) (Ord. 291, passed 12-3-1969)
**** ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND ****
§ 37.035 ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   The village elects to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund,
effective January 1, 1975.
(Prior Code, § 37.20) (Ord. 418, passed 9-18-1974)
§ 37.036 EMPLOYER-PAID EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS.
   Employee contributions to the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund shall be
paid by the village on behalf of all of the employees enrolled in the fund. The
payment shall be made by reducing the amount of the gross earnings payable to
employees by the amount of the contributions and making payment of this amount
directly to the fund. The payment of employee contributions provided shall be
effective for all compensation paid to employees beginning with July 1984.
(Prior Code, § 37.21) (Res. 290-83, passed 12-21-1983)
§ 37.037 SERVICE CREDIT FOR MILITARY SERVICE PRIOR TO IMRF PARTICIPATION.
   The village elects to allow service credit to members who served in the
armed forces of the United States for up to two years of service, prior to
their participation in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund.
(Prior Code, § 37.22) (Res. 2230-97, passed 11-5-1997)
**** RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 37.050 POSITIONS REQUIRING VILLAGE RESIDENCY.
   Employees in the following positions shall be residents within the corporate
boundaries of Lockport Township, Will County, Illinois and DuPage Township,
Will County, Illinois as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   Director of Public Works;
   (B)   Superintendent of Public Works Operations;
   (C)   Street Division crew leader;
   (D)   Utility Division crew leader;
   (E)   Sewage Treatment Division superintendent;
   (F)   Buildings and Grounds Division crew leader;
   (G)   Building Inspector;
   (H)   Budget Officer;
   (I)   Personnel Coordinator;
   (J)   Police Social Worker;
   (K)   Economic Development Commission Director;
   (L)   Recreation Director; and
   (M)   Village Planner.
(Prior Code, § 37.25) (Ord. 581, passed 11-2-1977; Ord. 657, passed 11-15-1978;
Ord. 702, passed 12-19-1979; Ord. 1032-88, passed 4-20-1988)
Cross-reference:
   Commissioned police officers, residency required, see §
33.20
   Police Chief, residency required, see §
33.21
§ 37.051 RESIDENCY DATE REQUIRED FOR NEW EMPLOYEES.
   Any new employee appointed to one of the positions enumerated above shall
reside within the Township of Lockport or the Township of DuPage within one
year after the start of employment.
(Prior Code, § 37.26) (Ord. 581, passed 11-2-77; Ord. 657, passed 11-15-1978;
Ord. 702, passed 12-19-1979)
**** INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY ****
§ 37.065 PARTICIPATION IN AGENCY.
   (A)   The President and Village Clerk are authorized to execute on behalf of
the village the contract and bylaws of the Intergovernmental Risk Management
Agency following approval of these documents by a majority vote of the Village
Board.
   (B)   The commencement of the operations of the Agency and the obligation of
this municipality to fully participate in the operations shall be effectuated
in accordance with a mutual starting date agreed on by all participating
municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 37.35) (Ord. 815, passed 1-6-1982)
§ 37.066 AGENCY POWERS.
   The powers of the Agency shall be limited to those contained within the
contract and bylaws. The contract and bylaws will be formulated by a
cooperative effort of participating municipalities, their municipal attorney
and the designated municipal representatives from each municipality.
(Prior Code, § 37.36) (Ord. 815, passed 1-6-1982)
§ 37.067 VILLAGE LIABILITY.
   Except to the extent of the limited financial contributions to the Agency,
the village shall not be held responsible in any way for claims due to the
property losses of or claims in tort or contract made against any other member
of the Agency.
(Prior Code, § 37.37) (Ord. 815, passed 1-6-1982)
**** USE OF VILLAGE VEHICLES ****
§ 37.080 USE OF VILLAGE VEHICLES BY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No village employee, other than department heads, shall use municipal
vehicles for other than work-related functions, including travel to and from
their residence to and from their employment reporting area. Vehicles are to be
parked at the village garage at the end of each work day or shift, or at a
location designated by the Village Manager.
   (B)   Vehicles driven by department heads are to be used only for work-
related travel inside and outside the village, and may be taken to the
employee’s home at the end of the work day.
   (C)   Police K-9 vehicle may be taken to the police officers home at the end
of the work shift.
(Prior Code, § 37.45) (Res. 258-83, passed 5-4-1983) Penalty, see §
37.999
**** EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION PROGRAM ****
§ 37.095 EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION PROGRAM.
   The village adopts an employee recognition program which identifies and
recognizes employees’ years of service, five years and above, by honoring the
employees and presenting them awards for years of service.
(Prior Code, § 37.50) (Res. 406-85, passed 6-19-1985)
**** VILLAGE SAFETY MANUAL ****
§ 37.110 ADOPTION OF VILLAGE SAFETY MANUAL.
   The Board of Trustees of the village approves the adoption of the Safety
Manual attached to Res. 707-90. This manual shall be distributed to all
employees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 37.60) (Res. 707-90, passed 9-19-1990; Res. 977-94, passed 1-5-
1994; Res. 980-94, passed 1-19-1994; Res. 1008-94, passed 4-6-1994; Res. 13-
1727, passed 11-6-2013)
**** ETHICAL CONDUCT ****
§ 37.125 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of Presidential or Vice-
Presidential electors, but does not include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a general primary election or general election.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 3 of
the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315/3.
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of their employment, but for purposes of this
subchapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods,
personal time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a
leave of absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not
fixed, COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on
premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer
or employee is executing their official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate, in whole or in part, for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of their employment;
provided nothing herein shall be construed or interpreted to mean that any
employee of the village has any right to compensatory time off by virtue of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the village, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of the village with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The Village of Romeoville.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value, including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink and honoraria for speaking engagements related
to or attributable to government employment or the official position of an
officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the OFFICER is compensated for
service in their official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or the County Clerk under §
9-3 of the Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/9-3, but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or the County
Clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention; and
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action;
         (a)   By an officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business:
         (a)   With the officer; or
         (b)   With an employee, or with the officer or another employee
directing that employee.
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated:
         (a)   By the officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 37.70) (Ord. 04-0147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 37.126 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
      (1)   As part of that officer or employee’s duties;
      (2)   As a condition of employment; or
      (3)   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for their participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of their official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   (E)   No person either:
      (1)   In a position that is subject to recognized merit principles of
public employment; or
      (2)   In a position the salary for which is paid in whole or in part by
federal funds and that is subject to the Federal Standards for a Merit System
of Personnel Administration applicable to grant-in-aid programs, shall be
denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely because they are a member or
an officer of a political committee, of a political party or of a political
organization or club.
(Prior Code, § 37.71) (Ord. 04-0147, passed 5-19-2004) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.127 GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Except as permitted by this subchapter, no officer or employee, and no
spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as “recipients”), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   (B)   Division (A) above is not applicable to the following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public;
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or their spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
      (3)   Any:
         (a)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code; or
         (b)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
      (4)   Educational materials and missions;
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancée;
      (7)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or their spouse or immediate family member and not
because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is provided
on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
         (a)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
         (b)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or
business reimbursement for the gift; and
         (c)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar gifts to other
officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family members.
      (8)   (a)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on
a single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are:
            1.   Consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or
            2.   Catered.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, CATERED means food or
refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
      (10)   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this Act, INTRAGOVERN- MENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and INTERGOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any
gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death;
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100; and
      (13)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually
exclusive and independent of every other.
   (C)   An officer or employee, their spouse or an immediate family member
living with the officer or employee does not violate this chapter if the
recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited
source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an
appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under § 501(c)(3) of
the I.R.C. of 1986, as now or hereafter amended, renumbered or succeeded.
(Prior Code, § 37.72) (Ord. 04-0147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 37.128 ETHICS ADVISOR.
   (A)   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board, shall designate an Ethics Advisor for the village. The duties of the
Ethics Advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the village unless
the village has created the position as an office.
   (B)   The Ethics Advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and state ethics laws. The Ethics Advisor
shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the corporate
authorities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 37.73) (Ord. 04-0147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 37.129 ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is created a commission to be known as the Village Ethics
Commission. The Commission shall be comprised of three members appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Village Board. No person
shall be appointed as a member of the Commission who is related, either by
blood or by marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to any elected officer
of village.
   (B)   At the first meeting of the Commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two Commissioners shall serve two-
year terms, and the third Commissioner shall serve a one-year term. Thereafter,
all Commissioners shall be appointed to two-year terms. Commissioners may be
reappointed to serve subsequent terms. At the first meeting of the Commission,
the Commissioners shall choose a Chair from their number. Meetings shall be
held at the call of the Chair or any two Commissioners. A quorum shall consist
two Commissioners, and official action by the Commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two members.
   (C)   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board, may remove a Commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office after service on the commissioner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten days’ notice. Vacancies shall be filled in the
same manner as original appointments.
   (D)   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with §
37.999 and refer violations of §§
37.126 or
37.127 to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The Commission shall,
however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a violation
of this subchapter and not upon its own prerogative;
      (3)   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this subchapter;
      (4)   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the village to cooperate with the Commission during
the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with requests
by the Commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or discharge; and
      (5)   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this subchapter.
   (E)   (1)   Complaints alleging a violation of this subchapter shall be
filed with the Commission.
      (2)   The following rules shall apply with respect to complaints.
         (a)   Within three business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against them and a copy of the
complaint. The Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three business days after receipt by the Commission. The notices to the
respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time and
place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
         (b)   Upon not less than 48 hours’ public notice, the Commission shall
meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint is deemed
sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to determine whether there is
probable cause, based on the evidence presented by the complainant, to proceed.
The meeting may be closed to the public to the extent authorized by the Open
Meetings Act. The Commission shall issue notice to the complainant and the
respondent of the Commission’s ruling on the sufficiency of the complaint and,
if necessary, on probable cause to proceed within seven business days after
receiving the complaint.
         (c)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
37.999 and there is a determination of probable cause, then the Commission’s
notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled within four weeks
after the complaint’s receipt. Alternatively, the Commission may elect to
notify, in writing, the attorney designated by the corporate authorities to
prosecute such actions and request that the complaint be adjudicated
judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege a violation or
if there is no determination of probable cause, then the Commission shall send
by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to the parties of the
decision to dismiss the complaint and that notice shall be made public.
         (d)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
37.126, then the Commission shall notify, in writing, the attorney designated
by the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and shall transmit to
the attorney the complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the
Commission concerning the alleged violation.
         (e)   On the scheduled date and upon at least 48 hours’ public notice
of the meeting, the Commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint and
shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence. The
hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the Open Meetings
Act.
         (f)   Within 30 days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the Commission shall either:
            1.   Dismiss the complaint; or
            2.   Issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator
and to the Village President, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The
particular findings in the case, any recommendation for discipline and any fine
imposed shall be a matter of public information.
         (g)   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file
a written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within 14 days after receiving the demand, the
Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least 48
hours’ public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to
present testimony and evidence. Within seven days thereafter, the Commission
shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the alleged violator and to the
Village President or impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
         (h)   If a complaint is filed during the 60 days preceding the date of
any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the Commission shall
render its decision as required under division (B) above within seven days
after the complaint is filed, and during the seven days preceding that
election, the Commission shall render such decision before the date of that
election, if possible.
   (F)   The Commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
37.126 or
37.127 in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more than $5,000. The
Commission may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous complaint
alleging a violation of this subchapter in an amount of not less than $1,001
and not more than $5,000. The Commission may recommend any appropriate
discipline up to and including discharge.
   (G)   A complaint alleging the violation of this chapter must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation.
(Prior Code, § 37.74) (Ord. 04-0147, passed 5-19-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
**** ELECTED OFFICIALS ****
§ 37.140 ESTABLISHMENT OF ALTERNATE RETIRED ELECTED OFFICIAL BENEFITS.
   Those members of the corporate authorities of the village, having served in
office not less than eight continuous years as of May 4, 2005, and who
thereafter retire or leave office shall be entitled to alternate retired
elected official benefits as hereinafter defined, and subject to the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth; provided, however, that alternate retired
elected official benefits as hereinafter defined shall not be available to,
received by or provided to any retired elected official entitled to receive
retired elected official benefit pursuant to Ord. 03-0099. Alternate retired
elected official benefits shall consist of the entitlement to participate in
and receive health insurance coverage through the village employee health
insurance program, with the cost thereof to an eligible recipient to be the
cost paid by a similarly situated village employee (as the same may be adjusted
from time to time), and the term or duration of the alternate retired elected
official benefits shall commence at such time as an eligible elected official
leaves public office within the village, for a period of time not to exceed 36
months from the date on which such eligible elected official leaves office. The
health insurance coverage to be provided as alternate retired elected official
benefits shall be the reasonable equivalent of the coverage provided to an
eligible elected official as of the retirement of such elected official from
elected office within the village. Any retired elected official may decline the
alternate retired elected official benefits or terminate the alternate retired
elected official benefits after initially receiving the same, but in either of
such events, shall waive and forfeit the right to thereafter receive or resume
the receipt of the alternate retired elected official benefits. Notwithstanding
the preceding sentence, an elected official receiving the alternate retired
elected official benefits shall be entitled to reduce the amount of alternate
retired elected official benefits received upon the occurrence of a qualifying
event under the village’s health insurance policy in effect from time to time,
but shall not thereafter be entitled to increase the amount of the alternate
retired elected official benefits.
(Prior Code, § 37.85) (Ord. 05-0276, passed 5-18-2005)
§ 37.141 PROHIBITED ELECTED OFFICIALS’ COMPENSATION.
   From and after the commencement of their terms of office, the next elected
Village President, Village Clerk and Village Trustees sworn in following the
conclusion of the full terms of the Village President, Village Clerk and
Village Trustees in office as of the effective date of this section shall be
prohibited from accepting or receiving any form of compensation or income of
any kind for providing services or performing any form of work for any city or
village that is contiguous to the village, whether such compensation or income
is derived from an employment, independent contracting, consulting or other
relationship with such city or village.
(Prior Code, § 37.86) (Ord. 12-0995, passed 6-20-2012)
§ 37.142 ELECTED OFFICIALS’ HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS.
   (A)   All elected officials holding office as of the April 2019 elections
and who were thereafter sworn into a subsequent term of office by virtue of
such elections shall, from and after the date upon which they leave elected
office of the village, be entitled to receive and maintain village health
insurance coverage from and after leaving office for a period of time equal to
such official’s cumulative length of service as an elected official of the
village. Such coverage shall be available to such officials on the same terms
and conditions on which such coverage was provided during such officials’ terms
of office; without otherwise limiting the generality of the foregoing, such
coverage shall likewise be available during such time period to the surviving
spouse or family members of such officials in the event of the death of such
officials during the period of time subsequent to such officials’ terms of
office in which such officials would be entitled to village health insurance
coverage pursuant to this division (A). The provisions of this division (A) are
declarative of the existing ordinances of the village.
   (B)   From and after commencement of the terms of office of all village
elected officials sworn into office after the April 2023 elections, and
notwithstanding any other provision of this code or of any village policy, all
such elected officials shall thereafter only be eligible to receive village
employee health insurance benefits, on the same terms and conditions as
otherwise available to any village employees, and at the same cost and expense
payable by village employees. Elected officials eligible for village employee
health insurance benefits under this division (B) may, in lieu of receiving
such benefits, provide the village with a written waiver of such benefits and
receive an annual stipend in an amount equal to the stipend from time to time,
payable to village employees who waive village employee health benefits.
Elected officials eligible for village employee health insurance benefits under
this division (B) who are otherwise eligible for employee health insurance
benefits through other employment or as a result of spousal employment may
receive village employee health insurance benefits under this division (B);
provided, however, that such elected officials shall, in addition to any other
costs for which they are responsible hereunder, pay an annual contribution to
the village in the amount of $1,500 toward the cost of such coverage. At such
time as an elected official eligible for village employee health insurance
benefits under this division (B) shall leave office whether due to expiration
of term, resignation or otherwise, the eligibility of such elected officials to
receive village employee health insurance benefits shall likewise terminate;
provided, however, that such elected officials shall have all rights otherwise
legally available to receive village employee health insurance benefits through
the provisions of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985
(COBRA). The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply whatsoever to any
village elected official holding office immediately prior to the commencement
of the terms of office of all village elected officials sworn into office as a
result of the April 2023 elections, and no presently serving village elected
official who shall be reelected into the office presently occupied as a result
of the April 2023 elections shall be subject in any manner or to any extent to
the provisions of this division (B).
   (C)   From and after commencement of the terms of office of all village
elected officials sworn into office after the April 2025 elections, and
notwithstanding any other provision of this code or of any village policy, all
such elected officials shall thereafter only be eligible to receive the lowest
cost option village employee health insurance individual coverage benefits (to
the exclusion of spousal or family coverage benefits), on the same terms and
conditions as otherwise available to any village employees, and at the same
cost and expense payable by village employees. Elected officials may, at their
cost and expense, obtain village employee health insurance other than the
lowest cost option, but shall pay the difference between the price of the
lowest cost option and the option selected by the elected official. Elected
officials eligible for village employee health insurance benefits under this
division (C) who are otherwise eligible for employee health insurance benefits
through other employment or as a result of spousal employment may receive
village employee health insurance benefits under this division (C); provided,
however, that such elected officials shall, in addition to any other costs for
which they are responsible hereunder, pay an annual contribution to the village
in the amount of $1,500 toward the cost of such coverage. At such time as an
elected official eligible for village employee health insurance benefits under
this division (C) shall leave office, whether due to expiration of term,
resignation or otherwise, the eligibility of such elected officials to receive
village employee health insurance benefits shall likewise terminate; provided,
however, that such elected officials shall have all rights otherwise legally
available to receive village employee health insurance benefits through the
provisions of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985
(COBRA). The provisions of this division (C) shall not apply whatsoever to any
village elected official holding office immediately prior to the commencement
of the terms of office of all village elected officials sworn into office as a
result of the April 2025 elections, and no presently serving village elected
official who shall be reelected into the office presently occupied as a result
of the April 2025 elections shall be subject in any manner or to any extent to
the provisions of this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 37.87) (Ord. 18-1496, passed 8-15-2018; Ord. 22-1797, passed 9-
21-2022; Ord. 24-1931, passed 8-21-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA), see 29
U.S.C. § 1161-68
§ 37.143 ELECTED OFFICIALS’ COMPENSATION ADJUSTMENTS; LICENSE AND INCENTIVE
AGREEMENT ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   From and after commencement of the terms of office of all newly
elected village officials sworn into office after the April 2025 elections, all
village elected officials shall be prohibited from holding licenses or license
endorsements issued pursuant to Chapter 112 or pursuant to Chapter 118, or from
holding special use permits issued to permit the operation of a cannabis
facility, as the same is defined under Chapter 157.
   (B)   From and after commencement of the terms of office of all village
elected officials sworn into office after the April 2025 elections, all newly
elected village officials shall be prohibited from entering into an economic
incentive agreement or redevelopment agreement with the village. As used
herein, an ECONOMIC INCENTIVE AGREEMENT shall mean and include any agreement
pursuant to which the village rebates, refunds or shares sales tax revenues or
any other non-real estate tax revenues with the owner, developer or occupant of
real estate within the village, and a REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT shall mean and
include any agreement pursuant to which the village provides incentive payments
generated from incremental real estate taxes to an owner, developer or occupant
of real estate. However, benefits, rebates or refunds made to village residents
under programs of general applicability to similarly situated residents shall
not be included within the meanings of the terms ECONOMIC INCENTIVE AGREEMENT
or REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT as used in this section.
   (C)   From and after commencement of the terms of office of all village
elected officials sworn into office after the April 2025 elections, all newly
elected village trustees and clerks without prior service in such village
elected offices shall be compensated under the provisions of village Ord. 06-
0445, as if such trustees and clerks were being initially sworn into office in
2009, and all newly elected village presidents without prior service in such
elected office shall be compensated under the provisions of village Ord. 06-
0446 (without regard to the provisions of § 2(b) thereof which have previously
been repealed), as if such village presidents were being initially sworn into
office in 2009. The provisions of this division (C) shall not apply whatsoever
to any village elected official holding office immediately prior to the
commencement of the terms of office of all village elected officials sworn into
office as a result of the April 2025 elections, and no presently serving
village elected official who shall be reelected into the office presently
occupied as a result of the April 2025 elections shall be subject in any manner
or to any extent to the provisions of this division (C).
   (D)   Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of village Ord. 06-0446 or of
any other applicable village ordinance or policy, from and after commencement
of the terms of office of all newly elected village officials sworn into office
after the April 2025 elections, all village elected officials who are employed
by, compensated by or receiving a pension from any other unit or
instrumentality of the state (including, but not limited to, the state itself)
shall have the annual compensation otherwise due and payable to them per the
applicable ordinances of the village reduced by an amount equal to the annual
compensation or pension benefits received by such village elected officials. In
the event that the annual compensation or pension benefits received by a
village elected official from any other unit or instrumentality of the state
exceeds the annual compensation due to such elected official from the village,
such an elected official shall, in that instance, serve without receiving the
compensation otherwise provided for by applicable village ordinances. The
provisions of this division (D) shall not apply whatsoever to any village
elected official holding office immediately prior to the commencement of the
terms of office of all village elected officials sworn into office as a result
of the April 2025 elections, and no presently serving village elected official
who shall be reelected into the office presently occupied as a result of the
April 2025 elections shall be subject in any manner or to any extent to the
provisions of this division (D).
   (E)   From and after commencement of the terms of office of all village
elected officials sworn into office after the April 2025 elections, all newly
elected village officials shall be prohibited from holding other publicly
elected office during their village terms of office. In the event that the
preceding sentence shall be ruled or determined to be unenforceable by a court
of competent jurisdiction, then all such elected officials shall have their
village compensation adjusted as set forth above in division (D) above. The
provisions of this division (E) shall not apply whatsoever to any village
elected official holding office immediately prior to the commencement of the
terms of office of all village elected officials sworn into office as a result
of the April 2025 elections, and no presently serving village elected official
who shall be reelected into the office presently occupied as a result of the
April 2025 elections shall be subject in any manner or to any extent to the
provisions of this division (E).
   (F)   From and after the commencement of the term of Office of the Village
President sworn into office after the April 2025 elections, the compensation
due and owing to the Village President for performing the duties of such office
together with the compensation due and owing to the Village President for
performing the duties of Local Liquor Control Commissioner may be paid as a
single salary compensating for the performance of the duties of both offices.
(Ord. 24-1931, passed 8-21-2024)
§ 37.144 ELECTED OFFICIALS’ ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLIANCE.
   Unless and only to the extent required by otherwise applicable law, and in
order to maintain the ability to demonstrate appropriate regulatory compliance,
all elected officials of the village shall be solely and individually
responsible for the performance of such administrative actions as may be
required by applicable governmental agencies or bodies having jurisdiction
(including, but not limited to, the State Municipal Retirement Fund, the
Internal Revenue Service, the State Department of Revenue or the village
pursuant to any applicable provisions of this code) with respect to the receipt
of, taxation of or entitlement to any compensation or benefits provided by the
village to village elected officials. Without otherwise limiting the generality
of the foregoing, all elected officials of the village shall be expected to
document that they devote not less than 1,000 hours each year in the
performance of their duties of office.
(Prior Code, § 37.89) (Ord. 18-1496, passed 8-15-2018)
**** VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT PROGRAM ****
§ 37.155 VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT PLAN FOR REGULAR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The voluntary retirement plan for regular full-time employees,
attached to Res. 10-1230, passed February 24, 2010, is adopted.
   (B)   The Village Administrator and Finance Director are directed to
implement the voluntary retirement plan for regular full-time employees.
Furthermore, the Village Administrator and Finance Director are also authorized
to make, with the concurrence of the Mayor, minor technical modifications to
the plan if needed to facilitate implementation of the plan.
(Prior Code, § 37.95) (Res. 10-1230, passed 2-24-2010)
**** PAID LEAVE ****
§ 37.170 STATE PAID LEAVE FOR ALL WORKERS ACT.
   (A)   The foregoing recitals shall be and are incorporated as findings of
fact as if said recitals were fully set forth herein.
   (B)   The village adopts its current paid leave policy for all village
employees as set forth in this code, Employee Handbook, annual salary
ordinances, any collective bargaining agreements to which the village is a
party and all other binding legislative actions governing paid leave adopted by
the village, as the same may be amended from time to time. In the event that a
village employee should not be subject to the paid leave policy as set forth in
any of the foregoing referenced documents, the village, as an employer, shall
provide not less than one day of paid leave per year to any village employee.
   (C)   Pursuant to the village’s home rule authority, the village declares
that the village, as an employer, is exempt from the requirements of the Paid
Leave for All Workers Act (820 ILCS 192/1 et seq.), and is likewise exempt from
any substantially similar ordinance or regulation adopted or to be adopted by
the county. The village, as an employer, shall have no additional obligations
with regard to mandatory paid leave, including, without limitation, any
obligations provided under the Act, except those obligations required by
federal and/or state law which validly preempt the village’s home rule
authority.
(Ord. 23-1884, passed 12-6-2023)
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
37.126 may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined an
amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
37.127 is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
      (3)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of §§
37.125 through
37.129 to the local enforcement authorities, the State’s Attorney or any other
law enforcement official may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days,
and may be fined an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (4)   A violation of §
37.126 shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney for the village
by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn complaint, charging
such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to the applicable
rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of the
guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. A violation of §
37.127 may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the
village, or, if an Ethics Commission has been created, by the Commission
through the designated administrative procedure.
      (5)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
37.126 or
37.127 is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Prior Code, § 37.99) (Ord. 04-0147, passed 5-19-2004)
APPENDIX A: EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
May 2025
Section
Section 1: General Provisions
   
1.1   Intention of Village Regarding Policies of Employment Disclaimer
   
1.2   Purpose of Policies
   
1.3   Scope of Coverage
   
1.4   Availability of Employee Handbook
   
1.5   Conflict with Collective Bargaining Agreements and Laws
   
1.6   Departmental Rules and Procedures
Section 2: Classification of Positions
   
2.1   Position Types
   
2.2   Position Classification Plan
   
2.3   Job Descriptions
Section 3: Compensation of Employees
   
3.1   Compensation Plan
   
3.2   Original Appointment
   
3.3   Performance Reviews
   
3.4   Salary Adjustments
   
3.5   New Positions
   
3.6   Salary Upon Promotion
   
3.7   Salary Upon Transfer
   
3.8   Reclassification of Position
   
3.9   Temporary Premium Pay
   
3.10   Overtime
   
3.11   Holiday Pay
   
3.12   Workers’ Compensation
   
3.13   Paychecks
   
3.14   Payroll Deductions
   
3.15   Time Sheets
   
3.16   Payments Due Deceased Employees
   
3.17   Court Time Travel for Former Employees
Section 4: Recruitment and Employment
   
4.1   Equal Employment Opportunity
   
4.2   Disability, Pregnancy and Lactation Accommodations
   
4.3   Religious Accommodation
   
4.4   Recruitment of Applicants
   
4.5   Appointment
   
4.6   Reappointment
   
4.7   Employment of Relatives
   
4.8   Employee Dating Policy
   
4.9   Mobile Workforce Policy
Section 5: Leave and Holidays
   
5.1   Previously Accrued Benefits
   
5.2   Vacation Leave
   
5.3   Vacation Accrual and Use
   
5.4   Vacation Pay upon Termination or Retirement
   
5.5   Voluntary Vacation Donations for Catastrophic Illnesses or Injuries
   
5.6   Sick Leave
   
5.7   Unused Sick Leave at Retirement and Health Insurance for Employees
   
5.8   Buy Back of Sick Leave for Non-bargaining Unit Employees
   
5.9   Additional Service Credit for Unpaid Sick Leave through IMRF
   
5.10   Funeral Leave
   
5.11   Family and Medical Leave
   
5.12   Disability Leave
   
5.13   Voting Leave
   
5.14   Personal Leave
   
5.15   Civil Leave/Jury Duty
   
5.16   School Visitation Leave
   
5.17   Military Leave
   
5.18   Holidays
   
5.19   Emergency Staffing Policy
   
5.20   Paid Leave
Section 6: Insurance Programs
   
6.0   Non-Union Sworn Personnel Chiefs and Commanders
   
6.1   Group Medical Insurance
Section 7: Other Benefits
   
7.1   Deferred Compensation
   
7.2   Longevity Pay
   
7.3   Reimbursement for Education Expenses
   
7.4   Programs Ineligible for Reimbursement
   
7.5   Job Related Training Programs
   
7.6   Treatment Plant Operator Certificate of License
   
7.7   Fringe Benefits
   
7.8   Uniforms and Equipment
Section 8: Employee Conduct
   
8.1   Attendance
   
8.2   Outside Employment
   
8.3   Identification Cards
   
8.4   Gift Ban
   
8.5   Political Activity
   
8.6   Confidentiality
   
8.7   Smoking/Vaping
   
8.8   Employee Safety
   
8.9   Village Logo Clothing
   
8.10   Dress Code Policy
   
8.11   Whistleblower Policy
   
8.12   Code of Conduct
   
8.13   Fraud Policy
Section 9: Technology
   
9.1   Glossary of Terms
   
9.2   General Information
   
9.3   Privacy
   
9.4   Guidelines for Use
   
9.5   Administration of Technology Resources
   
9.6   Confidentiality
   
9.7   Security
   
9.8   External Communications
   
9.9   Email
   
9.10   Local Area Network
   
9.11   Personal/Non Village Owned Equipment
   
9.12   Personal Cell Phone
   
9.13   Reporting Policy Violations and Enforcement
   
9.14   Telecommunications
   
9.15   Social Media Policy
Section 10: Disciplinary Actions
   
10.1   General
   
10.2   Disciplinary Steps
   
10.3   Appeals Involving Termination of Employment
Section 11: Personnel Records
   
11.1   Personnel Files
   
11.2   Change in Personal Information
Section 12: Finance
   
12.1   Travel Expense
Section 13: Credit Card Usage
   
13.1   Village Authorized Credit Card Use
   
13.2   Guidelines
   
13.3   Cardholder Responsibility
   
13.4   Village Internal Control Procedures
Section 14: Employee Training
   
14.1   Orientation of New Employees
   
14.2   Scheduling of Training/Probationary Period
Section 15: Employee Relations
   
15.1   Anti-Harassment
   
15.2   Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Code of Conduct
   
15.3   Employee Assistance Program
Section 16: Employee Health
   
16.1   Physical Examinations
   
16.2   AIDS policy
   
16.3   Drug and Alcohol Policy
Section 17: Safety
   
17.1   Weapons Possession Policy
   
17.2   Workplace Violence/Active Shooter Policy
Section 18: Forms and Sign Off Sheets
   
18.1   Employee Handbook Acknowledgment Form
   
18.2   Social Media Policy Acknowledgment Form
   
18.3   Discrimination and Harassment Policy Acknowledgment Form
   
18.4   Discrimination and Harassment Sign Off Sheet
   
18.5   Mobile Workforce Request Form
   
18.6   Mobile Workforce Agreement Form
   
18.7   Village of Romeoville Seminar Summary
   
18.8   Travel Authorization & Expense Report 1
   
18.9   Travel Expense Report 2
   
18.10   Credit Card Expense Report Form
   
18.11   Educational Plan for Tuition Reimbursement
   
18.12   Tuition Reimbursement Agreement
   
18.13   Outside Employee Request Form
   
18.14   Outside Employee Request Form (Police)
SECTION 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1.1 DISCLAIMER.
   The personnel policies set forth in this manual supersede all personnel
policies previously adopted by the Village. The policies are unilaterally
created and implemented by the Village and are intended to serve only as guides
for employment. THE POLICIES ARE NOT CONTRACT TERMS, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
AND SHALL NOT BE REGARDED AS OR CONSTRUED AS CONTRACTUAL PROVISIONS. AS GUIDES,
THE PROVISIONS MAY BE CHANGED, AMENDED, REVOKED, OR SUSPENDED AT ANY TIME
WITHOUT NOTICE AT THE SOLE DISCRETION OF THE VILLAGE. EMPLOYMENT WITH THE
VILLAGE IS AT-WILL AND NOTHING IN THIS MANUAL IS INTENDED OR SHOULD BE
CONSTRUED AS ALTERING THIS EMPLOYMENT AT-WILL RELATIONSHIP.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 1.2 PURPOSE OF POLICIES.
   This handbook is a guide for employees.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 1.3 SCOPE OF COVERAGE.
   All current employees in the municipal service in existing or hereafter-
created positions shall be subject to this chapter, except the following
offices and positions that shall be wholly exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   (A)   Elected officials
   (B)   Members of Boards and Commissions
   (C)   Consultants and personnel paid on a fee basis
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 1.4 AVAILABILITY OF EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   A copy of this policy manual shall be provided to all current employees and
to future employees upon commencement of work. This employee handbook shall be
maintained by the Village Manager and a copy shall be available in the office
of each Department Manager.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 1.5 CONFLICT WITH COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS AND LAWS.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this manual and those
contained in any applicable collective bargaining agreement, the collective
bargaining agreement will govern in all cases with respect to employees covered
by the agreement.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 1.6 DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   This policy manual shall not preclude the establishment of written
departmental work rules setting forth policies and procedures for an individual
department work force consistent with this policy manual. In the event of a
conflict, this policy shall govern.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 2: CLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS
§ 2.1 POSITION TYPES.
   (A)   Full-time employee - Shall mean an employee who customarily works
thirty-five- forty hours per week on a regular schedule throughout a twelve-
month period. The employment position is specifically authorized in the budget
and is designated as either non-exempt or exempt from federal, state and wage
laws.
      (1)   Non-Exempt Full-time - Employees are entitled to overtime pay or
compensatory (“comp”) time under the specific provisions of federal and state
laws and village policies.
      (2)   Exempt Full-time - Employees are excluded from specific provisions
of federal and state wage and hour laws. Exempt employees are generally
executive, administrative, creative or learned professional and technology
employees. Exempt employees are paid by salary and not by hour. The salary is
intended to compensate for all hours worked at the Village and will be
established at the time of hire or when the position is classified as “exempt”.
   (B)   Part-time employee - One who works less than thirty-five (35) hours
per week, twelve (12) months a year. One who works 1000 hours per year
averaging 20 hours a week would be entitled to IMRF. Employees working over
1000 per year would also be eligible for paid sick, personal, vacation,
funeral, and holidays. This excludes part-time firefighter/paramedic or
firefighter/EMTS.
   (C)   Temporary employee/seasonal - Temporary employee/seasonal/instructors/
security systems monitor - A person employed either Full-time or part-time on a
non-regular basis will be eligible for paid time off per the Paid Leave for All
Workers Act, 820 ILCS 192/1.
   (D)   1560 Part-time Employees - An employee who works between 1560 and 2000
hours of service during the employer’s “standard measurement period” or the
employee’s “initial measurement period” for qualification for health insurance.
The employer’s “standard measurement period” is January 01 through the
following December 31. An employee will have an “initial measurement period” if
the employee was not employed for a full standard measurement period and/or can
be treated as a new variable hour employee or a new seasonal employee upon hire
according to IRS regulations. An employee’s “initial measurement period” will
be the twelve-month period beginning on the first day of the month starting
after the employee’s hires date.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 2.2 POSITION CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Village has a position classification plan for regular full and
part-time positions covered by the provisions of this policy manual. All
positions shall be grouped in classes having a definite range of difficulty and
responsibility. Each class may specify examples of work which are illustrative
of duties for those positions allocated to the class, requirements as to
knowledge, abilities, and skills necessary for performance of the work and a
statement of experience and training desirable for recruitment into the
classification. Minimum requirements may be added for any position.
   (B)   The class specifications shall be considered as descriptive rather
than restrictive. They shall be used to indicate the types of positions that
should be allocated to the respective classes and not as prescribing what the
duties or responsibilities of any specific position shall be, or as modifying
the power of a Department Manager or supervisor to assign duties, direct,
control or evaluate the work of any employee.
   (C)   As often as necessary to ensure continued correct classification, the
position classification plan shall be reviewed by the Village Manager and
necessary adjustments shall be made. Any additions, deletions, or other changes
in the position classification plan shall be submitted to the Village Manager
for approval. Board approval shall be required for changes in the position of
the Village Manager and Department Managers.
   (D)   The position classification plan shall be filed with the Village
Manager. The plan so filed, and subsequently adjusted, shall have the same
effect as though it were a part of this personnel manual.
   (E)   Employee Advanced through the Ranges.
      (1)   The starting salary of the range (Minimum) is the normal hiring/
promoting rate. Exceptions to this starting point should be limited to hiring
situations involving applicants with exceptional background and qualifications,
a promotion in which the employee’s current compensation is higher than the
minimum of the new range, or in the case of a labor market situation where it
is impossible to recruit qualified candidates at the minimum. In these cases,
employees may be appointed to their positions anywhere within the defined
range, depending on their experiences and qualifications, and based on the
provisions of the Village’s Personnel Manual Employees should not be hired
below the minimum of their compensation range.
      (2)   Salary advancement between the hiring rate and the top of the range
(Maximum) is done throughout the employee’s tenure with the Village.
Advancement through the range may be done on an annual basis and be dependent
on a satisfactory performance evaluation. Incumbents progressing through the
range should understand that standards of performance would become more
exacting or controlling as compensation levels advance.
   (F)   Future Administration of the Non-Union Compensation Plan. The
administration of a classification plan is an ongoing process. It must be
recognized that it is not static and is not intended to affix positions
permanently to job classes. Instead, the plan must be administered continually
to adapt it to changing conditions.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 2.3 JOB DESCRIPTIONS.
   A job description provides a current and accurate description of the various
tasks that are performed by an employee. It is the basis for establishing a
compensation program that is related to the nature of the work performed. It
also provides a means of assuring internal equity with the overall workforce.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 3: COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES
§ 3.1 COMPENSATION PLAN.
   The compensation plan for the Village shall consist of a pay range for each
classification. The compensation for all employees shall be assigned by the
Village Manager and shall be within the pay range assigned to the employee’s
position. Nothing contained in the policy guarantees any salary increases,
which are dependent upon prior decision and appropriation by the Board.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.2 ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT.
   An employee shall be hired at the minimum rate of the pay range for their
classification whenever possible. A new employee with substantial experience
can be placed in the middle to top of the range with the Village Managers
approval.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.3 PERFORMANCE REVIEWS.
   (A)   The Village will make its best effort to conduct a minimum of one
written performance review per year for all employees. Performance evaluation
forms will be completed by the employee’s immediate supervisor. The annual
performance evaluation should be completed for each employee, and a copy
provided to the employee. A personal interview between the employee and the
immediate supervisor shall be conducted within a reasonable period after
receipt by the employee of the written evaluation.
   (B)   The evaluation will include a review of the employee’s principal
responsibilities, an appraisal of the employee’s job performance, a discussion
of problem areas, and a plan of action to set objectives for performance and to
assist in alleviating any problem areas.
   (C)   All evaluations shall be submitted to the Human Resources for review
and be made a part of the employee’s personnel records.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.4 SALARY ADJUSTMENTS.
   All salary adjustments will be considered every May 1st, provided the
employee is meeting their minimum performance expectations established in their
performance review. If an employee’s performance review states they are not
meeting minimum expectations, salary adjustments will be considered when
minimum expectations are satisfactorily met. Nothing contained in this policy
guarantees any salary increases, which are dependent upon prior decision and
appropriation by the Board. Employees hired January – April will not be
eligible for the May 1st increase. Employees who received a promotion or who
were reclassified and received an increase during the same time period January
– April are not eligible for the increase May 1st. New hires are eligible for
an increase after completing their 6 months’ probation successfully.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.5 NEW POSITIONS.
   If an employee is to be assigned to a newly created classification, or the
Village creates a new position not falling within an established
classification, the position will be documented and evaluated using a standard
job evaluation method so that classification and appropriate pay grade can be
determined. No person shall be hired, promoted, demoted, or paid in any
position until the position has been approved by the Village Manager.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.6 SALARY UPON PROMOTION.
   An employee who is promoted from a classification in one pay grade range to
a classification in a higher pay grade range will be placed in the new pay
grade range which provides a salary increase as determined by the Village
Manager. Employees who received a promotion or who were reclassified and
received an increase January – April are not eligible for the increase May 1st.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.7 SALARY UPON TRANSFER.
   An employee who transfers or is transferred from one classification to
another classification in the same pay range shall receive no salary adjustment
and will retain the same anniversary date.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.8 RECLASSIFICATION OF POSITION.
   (A)   Upon reclassification, an employee may receive an adjustment in pay
commensurate with the employment classification.
   (B)   When the allocation of an existing position has been changed because
of reevaluation resulting from significant changes in job duties,
responsibilities and requirements, such position will be a reclassification.
   (C)   In these situations, the position will be documented and evaluated
using a standard job evaluation method, and position classification and pay
range will be determined.
   (D)   If a position is reclassified to a classification in a lower pay
range, and the salary of the employee is within the new pay range, the employee
shall go to the step in the new pay range which is the closest to their current
pay. If a position is reclassified to a classification in a lower pay range,
and the salary of the employee exceeds the pay range maximum of the new pay
range, the employee will be placed in the new pay range and retain their
current salary. However, the employee will not be eligible for further base-
accumulating pay increases until their salary is again within the salary for
the new grade.
   (E)   If a position is reclassified to a classification in a higher pay
range, and the salary of the employee is within the new pay range, the employee
shall be placed in the range which provides an increase over their current pay.
If a position is reclassified to a classification in a higher pay range, and
the salary of the employee is below the new pay range minimum, the employee
shall receive a salary adjustment to the minimum of the higher pay range.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.9 TEMPORARY PREMIUM PAY.
   Subject to the final approval of the Village Manager, a Department Manager
may recommend a temporary pay increase for a period not to exceed ninety (90)
days for a Village employee. The increase shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of that employee’s regular salary or rate of pay when that employee is
called upon to perform additional or different job duties or functions during
two or more consecutive weeks that would not otherwise be the responsibility of
that employee. The amount of a given pay increase shall be determined by the
Department Manager based on the amount or nature of additional or different
duties or functions that an employee is assuming and approved by the Village
Manager. All pay increases recommended and approved under this policy shall
only constitute temporary adjustments to an employee’s salary or rate of pay to
reflect the temporary increase or change in the duties and functions of the
employee during the period of time that the employee is actually assisting in
carrying out the duties and functions of the vacant position, and under no
circumstances shall any such pay increase constitute a permanent change in the
employee’s salary or rate of pay. The Department Manager recommending a
temporary pay increase for an employee under this policy shall, upon the
approval of such increase by the Village Manager, notify the recipient thereof
in writing of the amount of the increase, the additional or different duties
and functions to be performed by the recipient, and the expected duration of
the assignment of such additional duties and functions to such employee. Such
notice shall also inform the employee that any pay increase granted under this
policy shall be temporary and shall last no longer than the period during which
the employee actually performs additional or different job duties or functions
and shall be transmitted to the employee together with a copy of this policy.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.10 OVERTIME.
   (A)   It is the policy of the Village to establish and maintain regulations
and guidelines regarding overtime compensation that will ensure continued
compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.,
“FLSA”). FLSA seeks to limit the number of hours worked by requiring additional
pay, called overtime pay, for hours worked more than the applicable statutory
maximum, unless such employees hold positions that are exempted from the
overtime requirements of FLSA. This usually means that non-exempt employees are
entitled to overtime pay for hours of work more than forty (40) per work week.
Non-exempt part-time firefighters can receive overtime pay after 106 hours in a
two week pay period.
   (B)   A Department Manager, or designee, must authorize overtime work when
necessary to meet Village emergencies or other operating requirements. When
non-exempt employees are called on to perform overtime work, such employees
shall receive payment for overtime work at the rate of one and one-half times
their regular rate for all hours of work over forty (40) hours in the work
week.
   (C)   Those employees whose positions are exempted from required overtime
payments pursuant to the executive, professional or administrative exemptions
under FLSA shall not be eligible to receive any overtime pay. However, exempt
employees may request, as their workload permits, adjustment of their working
hours to compensate for working over forty (40) hours. Vacation and Personal
time are considered as time work, sick time is not. All adjustments must be
approved by the Village Manager, Department Manager, or their designee.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.11 HOLIDAY PAY.
   (A)   All part-time Security System Monitor shall be paid time/half for
working the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Easter, Thanksgiving, and
Christmas.
   (B)   1.5 times the rate of pay for on the actual holiday worked not the
observed day.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.12 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
   (A)   All employees are covered by Workers’ Compensation, which provides for
work time lost and payment for medical expenses incurred because of injury or
illness arising out of and during the performance of their job.
   (B)   An injured employee must report immediately any injury or illness (no
matter how minor) to their supervisor. Within three (3) days of any incident,
the supervisor must notify the Human Resources Office.
   (C)   Medical bills for job-related injuries should be submitted to the
Human Resources Office.
   (D)   Employees must receive authorization from a physician to return to
work when off from work for three (3) consecutive days or more.
   (E)   The first three (3) days an employee is off work due to a job-related
injury are not paid by workers’ compensation. If an employee is off work with a
job-related injury for more than fourteen (14) days, the first three (3) days
are paid by workers’ compensation. Workers’ compensation covers 2/3 of the
employee’s average weekly pay.
   (F)   To ensure no service time is lost, any participants in the Illinois
Municipal Retirement Fund (“I.M.R.F.”) must file for disability benefits when
injury occurs.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.13 PAYCHECKS.
   (A)   Employees will receive electronic notification regarding their
paychecks by Friday, after the completion of a two-week period ending the
previous Sunday. The pay period for all employees shall be bi-weekly with the
close of the pay period designated at 12:00 midnight the Sunday prior to
payday. When a holiday on a payday exists, checks will be distributed on the
preceding workday. Paychecks will be available in the respective department for
those employees not getting their paychecks direct deposited.
   (B)   The Village retains sole discretion in the establishment of the
payroll period, and paydays may be changed by the Village Board.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.14 PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   An employee’s pay shall be subject to legally mandated payroll
deductions, including withholding for federal and state taxes. The amount
deducted depends upon the number of exemptions claimed by the employee.
Employees who wish to change the number of exemptions should contact Human
Resources, except for employees eligible to participate in the Fire and Police
Pension Funds, payroll deductions are also made for the Federal Insurance
Contribution Act (“F.I.C.A.”) or Social Security. F.I.C.A. deductions are set
by federal law.
   (B)   All employees who work more than 1,000 hours per year and are not
eligible for membership in the Fire and Police Pension Funds are subject to
deductions for the I.M.R.F. The current employee contribution established by
State law is 4.5% of total wages.
   (C)   Employees may also arrange to have voluntary deductions made from
their pay for direct deposits to banks, for deferred compensation plans and to
the credit union (this service must be available at the bank or credit union so
named). Arrangements should be made through the HR Portal, Payroll, or Human
Resources.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.15 TIME SHEETS.
   (A)   Safe Harbor Policy. It is the Village’s policy and practice to
accurately compensate employees and to do so in compliance with all applicable
state and federal laws. To ensure that you are paid properly for all time
worked and that no improper deductions are made, you must correctly record all
work time and review your paychecks promptly to identify and to report all
errors. You also must not engage in off-the-clock or unrecorded work.
   (B)   Review Your Paystub. State and Federal laws require the Village to
keep accurate records of the time worked by all employees. Employee
falsification of information on electronic time sheet is a serious infraction
and cause for disciplinary action, up to and including termination of
employment. The Village will make every effort to ensure our employees are paid
correctly. Occasionally, however, inadvertent mistakes can happen. When
mistakes do happen and are called to our attention, we promptly will make any
correction that is necessary. Please review your pay stub when you receive it
to make sure it is correct. If you believe your wages have been subject to any
improper deductions or your pay does not accurately reflect all hours worked,
you should report your concerns to a supervisor immediately. If a supervisor is
unavailable or if you believe it would be inappropriate to contact that person
(or if you have not received a prompt and fully acceptable reply within three
business days), you should immediately contact the Village Manager or the
Finance Director. If you have not received a satisfactory response within five
business days after reporting your concern to the Village Manager or the
Finance Director and you are unsure who to contact to correct the problem,
please immediately contact the Village’s corporate counsel.
   (C)   Non-Exempt Timecard or Punch Policy. All non-exempt employees will use
an electronic time system to track their hours worked. This will be done by
either an electronic time clock or a computer. This system will track all your
regular time, overtime, and paid time off.
   (D)   Exempt Employees. If you are classified as an exempt salaried
employee, you will receive a salary which is intended to compensate you for all
hours that you may work for the Village. This salary will be established at the
time of hire or when you become classified as an exempt employee. While it may
be subject to review and modification from time to time, such as during salary
review times, the salary will be a predetermined amount that will not be
subject to deductions for variations in the quantity or quality of the work you
perform. Exempt employees must still keep track of all hours worked as required
by law, but not for compensation purposes. You will receive your full salary
for any work week in which work is performed. However, under federal law, your
salary is subject to certain deductions. For example, absent contrary state law
requirements, your salary can be reduced for the following reasons in a work
week in which work was performed:
      (1)   Full day absences for personal reasons, other than sickness or
disability.
      (2)   Full day absences for sickness or disability, in accordance with
the Village’s sick day pay plan and short-term disability insurance plan.
      (3)   Full day disciplinary suspensions for infractions of safety rules
of major significance (including those that could cause serious harm to
others).
      (4)   Family and Medical Leave absences (either full or partial day
absences).
      (5)   To offset amounts received as payment for jury and witness fees or
military pay.
      (6)   Unpaid disciplinary suspensions of one or more full days for
significant infractions of major workplace conduct rules set forth in written
policies.
      (7)   The first or last week of employment in the event you work less
than a full week.
      (8)   Your salary also may be reduced for certain types of deductions,
such as: your portion of health, dental or life insurance premiums; state,
federal or local taxes, social security; or IMRF plan. In any work week in
which you performed any work, your salary will not be reduced for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   Partial day absences for personal reasons, sickness, or
disability. Your absence because the facility is closed on a scheduled workday.
         (b)   Absences for jury duty, attendance as a witness, or military
leave in any week in which you have performed any work.
         (c)   Any other deductions prohibited by state or federal law.
   (E)   Falsification of Timecard and Off-the-Clock Work.
      (1)   It is a violation of the Village’s policy for any employee to
falsify a timesheet, or to alter another employee’s timesheet. It is also a
serious violation of Village policy for any employee or Manager to instruct
another employee to incorrectly or falsely report hours worked or alter another
employee’s timesheet to under- or over-report hours worked. If any Manager or
employee instructs you to (1) incorrectly or falsely under- or over-report your
hours worked, (2) alter another employee’s time records to inaccurately or
falsely report that employee’s hours worked, or (3) conceal any falsification
of time records or to violate this policy, do not do so. Instead, report it
immediately to the Village Manager.
      (2)   You should not work any hours outside of your scheduled workday
unless your supervisor has authorized the unscheduled work in advance. Do not
start work early, finish work late, work during a meal break or perform any
other extra or overtime work unless you are authorized to do so, and that time
is recorded on your timesheet. Employees are prohibited from performing any
“off-the-clock” work. “Off-the-clock” work means work you may perform but fail
to report on your timesheet. Any employee who fails to report or inaccurately
reports any hours worked will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment.
   (F)   No Retaliation.
      (1)   Every report will be fully investigated, and corrective action will
be taken, up to and including discharge of any employee(s) who violates this
policy.
      (2)   In addition, the Village will not allow any form of retaliation
against individuals who report alleged violations of this policy or who
cooperate in the Village’s investigation of such reports. Retaliation is
unacceptable. Any form of retaliation in violation of this policy will result
in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.16 PAYMENTS DUE DECEASED EMPLOYEES.
   All payments due to the deceased employee shall be made payable “to the
estate” of said employee. This includes compensation for hours worked, vacation
leave, and any refunds or reimbursements due the employee. Should the
employee’s death occur while on the job, payment for the entire workday shall
be made.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 3.17 COURT TIME TRAVEL AND PAY FOR FORMER EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   This section pertains to former employees of the Village of Romeoville
who are required to give deposition or appear in court on behalf of the
Village.
   (B)   Former employees that are required to testify in a civil case,
criminal case and/or give a deposition will be paid their last hourly wage for
the time incurred while in court. This does not include travel time. Parking
and tolls will be reimbursable. The former employee will need to submit a
detail report that documents their hours, dates, and times to Human Resources
prior to receiving payment.
   (C)   These policies are also in effect for all commissioners and public
officials. Commission members will not be paid for a meeting for their
appearance.
   (D)   Receipts must be submitted for parking and tolls.
   (E)   In the case of out-of-town travel, the Village will compensate the
former employee, public officials, or commission members based on the existing
travel policy in effect.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 4: RECRUITMENT AND EMPLOYMENT
§ 4.1 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY STATEMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the Village that employment in Village government
shall be based on merit and individual qualifications. No discrimination shall
be exercised in any manner by a Village official or employee against or in
favor of any applicant for Village employment or employee because of political
or religious opinions or affiliations, or because of race, color, ancestry,
sex, age, national origin, marital status, military or veteran status, order of
protection status, genetic information, disability, sexual orientation
(including Gender-related identity), sexual harassment, gender (including
pregnancy and reproductive health, childbirth, and related decisions or
conditions), order of protection status, marital status, retaliation (opposing
unlawful discrimination, family responsibilities, citizenship status, work
authorization status, language, unfavorable military discharge, conviction
record, arrest record, or any other classification protected by federal or
state law. (hereinafter referred to as “Protected Classes”). The Village
interprets these protected statuses broadly to include both the actual status
and any perceptions and assumptions made regarding these statuses.
   (B)   An applicant or employee shall be considered solely based on
qualifications, abilities, skills, and knowledge, with or without reasonable
accommodation. Just and equitable incentives and conditions of employment are
to be maintained to promote efficiency and economy in the operation of Village
government. The Village has officially affirmed this policy statement and it is
reaffirmed by its inclusion in this manual.
   (C)   The policy of Equal Employment Opportunity applies to all policies and
procedures relating to recruiting, hiring, training, promotion, pay, and all
personnel actions. The Village complies with Federal and State equal employment
opportunity laws and strives to keep the workplace free from all forms of
illegal harassment as set forth in its Harassment, Discrimination and
Retaliation Prevention Policy.
   (D)   The Village also makes reasonable accommodations for qualified
applicants and employees with disabilities and for religious reasons, unless
doing so creates an undue hardship, in accordance with all legal requirements.
Any applicant or employee who requires an accommodation to perform the
essential functions of the job should contact the Village Manager or the
Director of Human Resources to request that accommodation. We will work with
that individual to attempt to identify a reasonable accommodation which will
not impose an undue hardship on the Village.
   (E)   All employees must follow this policy. Any employee who violates this
policy will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination
of employment.
   (F)   We are committed to the practice of equal employment opportunity and
will not tolerate intimidation or retaliation against employees or applicants
because they have engaged in or may engage in filing a complaint of
discrimination or retaliation; assisting or participating in an investigation;
opposing any act or practice made unlawful by any local, state, or federal law;
or for exercising any other legally protected right.
   (G)   The Village Manager has overall responsibility for this policy and
maintains reporting and monitoring procedures. Employee questions or concerns
regarding this policy or violation thereof, should be referred to the Village
Manager or the Director of Human Resources. Complaints are investigated
immediately and handled as confidentially as possible in accordance with the
procedure outlined in the Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation Prevention
Policy. The Village ensures employees following this complaint procedure are
protected against retaliation. Appropriate disciplinary action will be taken
against any employee violating this policy. Please see our Harassment,
Discrimination and Retaliation Prevention Policy for information about the
Village’s policy regarding investigation and resolution of complaints.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 4.2 DISABILITY AND PREGNANCY ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   The Village reaffirms its commitment to comply with the Americans with
Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., “ADA”) and the Illinois Human
Rights Act. The ADA makes it unlawful to discriminate in any employment
practices such as recruiting, hiring, promoting, training, reduction-in-force,
pay, firing, classifications, leaves, benefits, etc., against a job-qualified
individual with a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits a
major life activity, an individual who has a record of such a limiting
impairment, or an individual who is regarded as having such an impairment. The
term “pregnancy” for purposes of this policy shall mean pregnancy, childbirth,
or medical or common conditions related to pregnancy or childbirth.
   (B)   The Village will provide reasonable accommodations to such qualified
individuals with a disability or pregnancy, such as making the workplace
readily accessible and providing necessary equipment and devices for such
individuals in the functioning of their job.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the employee to bring their need for any
such modification to the workplace or necessary equipment or device to the
attention of their Department Manager. This information will be kept
confidential and separate from the employee’s personnel file. The employee and
Department Manager shall work to mutually agree upon a reasonable
accommodation. However, the Village does not guarantee that the accommodation
shall necessarily be the one requested by the employee or the “best”
accommodation but only that it shall be one that enables the employee to
perform the essential functions of the job. Accommodations will not be provided
if doing so would create an undue hardship on the Village. If the employee is
not satisfied with the reasonable accommodation provided by the Department
Manager, the employee may bring the matter to the attention of the Village
Manager.
   (D)   Lactation Accommodation Policy. The Village will provide employees
with a safe space and a reasonable amount of break time to accommodate the
employee’s need to express breastmilk for their nursing infant child, for up to
one (1) year following the child’s birth. The requested break time, if
possible, should be taken concurrently with other scheduled or provided break
periods. Employees will be paid for any additional amount of reasonable break
time needed to express breastmilk, unless doing so would cause the Village
undue hardship in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 4.3 RELIGIOUS ACCOMMODATION.
   The Village respects the religious beliefs and practices of all employees
and will make an accommodation for such sincerely held observances and beliefs
when a reasonable accommodation is available that does not create an undue
hardship on the organization. The immediate supervisor will evaluate any
request for accommodation considering whether a work conflict exists and
whether an accommodation is available. The supervisor and employee will meet to
discuss the request and decision on an accommodation. If the employee accepts
the proposed accommodation, the supervisor will implement the decision. If the
employee disagrees with the proposed accommodation, the employee may submit a
written appeal the decision of the supervisor to the Village Manager.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 4.4 RECRUITMENT OF APPLICANTS.
   The Human Resources Manager will be responsible for securing applicants
through appropriate resources. The Human Resources Manager and relevant
Department Manager will screen applicants and select those applicants deemed to
be best qualified for the position to be interviewed.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 4.5 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   All appointments and promotions to Village positions shall be made on
the basis of qualification, as required by the position, relative to
experience, training, personal and physical fitness, skills, knowledge, and
test results.
   (B)   When the two most qualified applicants are equal in every aspect
required by the position, relative to experience, training, personal and
physical fitness, skills, knowledge, and test results, “preference” may be
given to a Village resident over that of a non-resident. “Preference,” as
defined in this section only, is defined as giving extra appointment
consideration to a Village resident over that of a nonresident.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 4.6 REAPPOINTMENT.
   Any reappointed employee will have no vested interest or be entitled to any
benefits accrued during previous employment with the Village.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 4.7 EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES/ANTI-NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Members of the family (as defined below) or household will not be
considered for employment. The employment of other close relatives is
discouraged.
   (B)   With the Village Manager’s approval, a Department Manager may hire,
temporary, seasonal or part-time employees with no benefits, persons within the
family or elected officials. However, that employee will not be able to work in
the same department as their relative. Neither shall they be transferred,
promoted, demoted, or become full-time.
   (C)   Employees employed prior to 2018 who are presently working in the same
department with a member of their family, as defined below, shall be exempted
from this policy. However, the following policy shall apply in such
circumstances:
      (1)   Members of a household within the same department may not have a
direct reporting relationship with another member of their family.
      (2)   Members of a household may not be in the position of approving
either the timesheet or the salary of another member of their family.
      (3)   Electronic Time sheets and employee scheduling for members of a
household within the same department shall be subject to approval by the
Village Manager.
      (4)   The Village Manager shall be responsible for monitoring these
situations to ensure that there are no violations or problems created.
   (E)   If two employees at the same location become family/spouse during
their employment and are in a supervisory/subordinate relationship, or one of
the employees is in a position of having access to confidential material, one
of the two must transfer, if a position for which they are qualified is
available. The Village will try to accommodate a job transfer to a different
department or transfer one employee to different shift or different supervisor.
If no position is available, one employee must either voluntarily resign or
enter into an Alternative Management Plan within 34 days of the date in which
the two became family. The choice of the voluntary resignation or alternative
management plan shall be made by the employees involved.
   (F)   An Alternative Management Plan shall be approved by the Village
Manager or their designee, and shall outline supervision and evaluation
procedures that will mitigate possible conflicts of interest amongst members of
family. In the event of members of family having a supervisory/subordinate
relationship, the Alternative Management Plan should address to whom the
subordinate employee shall report and who will supervise, evaluate, and
discipline the subordinate employee to ensure members of family do not have any
effect upon the promotion, compensation, hours, or other conditions of
employment of another member of family. In the event one of the members of
family has access to confidential information, that member of family must enter
into a non-disclosure agreement with the Village agreeing not to disclose any
confidential information to the other member of family.
   (G)   Alternative Management Plans should also address ways to avoid any
potential appearance of nepotism, conflict of interest, or conflict of
commitment. To ensure continuity and appropriateness, a unit review of the
approved management plan should take place in the event of any change in
reporting relationships, and on an annual basis at a minimum.
   (H)   For purposes of this Section 4.7 only, the terms “family” and “spouse”
are defined as follows:
      (1)   Family: Mother, father, sister, brother, spouse, son, daughter,
stepmother, stepfather, stepsister, stepbrother, or grandparent of employee or
spouse. (Blood, step, in-laws)
      (2)   Spouse: Those people living together married or unmarried in an
espoused relationship, which is defined as two people living together sharing
bed and board, siring children, sharing financial, recreational, and social
activities with or without benefit of a marriage license or marriage ceremony.
   (I)   Employees must notify Human Resources within 14 days of the marriage
or civil union.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 4.8 EMPLOYEE DATING POLICY.
   (A)   The Village of Romeoville strongly believes that a work environment
where employees maintain clear boundaries between employee personal and
business interactions is most effective for conducting business and enhancing
productivity. Although this policy does not prevent the development of
friendship or romantic relationships between co-workers, it does establish
boundaries as to how relationships are conducted during work hours and within
the working environment.
   (B)   Individuals in supervisory or Managerial roles, and those with
authority over others’ terms and conditions of employment, are subject to more
stringent requirements under this policy due to their status as role models,
their access to sensitive information, and their ability to affect terms and
conditions of employment of individuals in subordinate positions.
   (C)   This policy does not preclude or interfere with the rights of
employees protected by the National Labor Relations Act, 29 U.S.C. §§ 151
through 169, or any other applicable statue concerning the employment
relationship.
      (1)   During working time and in working areas, employees are expected to
conduct themselves in an appropriate workplace manner.
      (2)   During nonworking time, such as lunches, breaks, and before and
after work periods, employees engaging in personal exchanges in non-work areas
should observe an appropriate workplace manner to avoid offending other
employees or putting others in an uncomfortable position.
      (3)   Employees are strictly prohibited from engaging in physical contact
that would in any way be deemed inappropriate by a reasonable person while
anywhere on company premises or representing oneself as a member of the
Village, whether during work hours or not.
      (4)   Employees who allow personal relationships with co-workers to
adversely affect the work environment will be subject to the appropriate
provisions of the Village of Romeoville’s disciplinary policy. Failure to
change behavior and maintain expected work responsibilities is viewed as a
serious disciplinary matter.
      (5)   Employee off-duty conduct is generally regarded as private if such
conduct does not create problems within the workplace. An exception to this
principle, however, is romantic or sexual relationships between supervisors and
subordinates.
      (6)   Any supervisor, Manager, or in a sensitive or influential position
with the Village of Romeoville must disclose the existence of a romantic or
sexual relationship with a co-worker. Disclosure may be made to the immediate
supervisor or the Human Resources Manager. This disclosure will enable the
Village of Romeoville to determine whether any conflict of interest exists
because of the relative positions of the individuals involved. All other
employees must disclose their relationship with co-workers to their immediate
supervisor. Failure to disclose a romantic or sexual relationship may lead to
discipline up to and including termination.
      (7)   Regarding Paragraph (6), when a conflict-of-interest problem or
potential risk is identified, the Village of Romeoville will work with the
employees involved to consider options for resolving the problem. The initial
solution may be to make sure the employees no longer work together on matters
where one is able to influence the other or act for the other. Matters such as
hiring, firing, promotions, performance management, compensation decisions and
financial transactions are examples of situations that will require
reallocation of duties to avoid any actual or perceived reward or disadvantage.
In some cases, other measures may be necessary, such as transfer to other
positions or departments.
      (8)   Regarding Paragraph (6), if one or both parties refuse to accept a
reasonable solution or to offer an alternative position, if available, such
refusal will be deemed a voluntary resignation.
      (9)   Failure to cooperate with the Village of Romeoville to resolve a
conflict or problem caused by a romantic or sexual relationship between co-
workers or among managers, supervisors, or others in positions of authority
over another employee in a mutually agreeable fashion may be deemed
insubordination and cause for immediate termination. The disciplinary policy of
the Village of Romeoville will be followed to ensure fairness and consistency
before any such extreme measures are undertaken.
      (10)   The provisions of this policy apply regardless of the sexual
orientation of the employees involved.
      (11)   Where doubt exist as to the specific meaning of the terms used
above, employees should make judgements based on the overall spirit and intent
of this policy.
      (12)   Any concerns about the administration of this policy should be
addressed to the Human Resources Manager.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 4.9 MOBILE WORKFORCE POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The Village of Romeoville considers mobile working to be a
viable alternative work arrangement in cases where employee, job and supervisor
characteristics are best suited to such an arrangement. Mobile working allows
employees to work at home during FMLA leave or any other extended sick leave.
Mobile working is a voluntary work alternative that may be appropriate for some
employees and some jobs. It is not an entitlement, it is not a Village wide
benefit, and it in no way changes the terms or conditions of employment with
the Village of Romeoville.
   (B)   Definition. Mobile working is a work arrangement in which supervisors
permit employees to perform duties away from their central workplace in
accordance with their same performance expectations and other approved or
agreed upon terms. In general, mobile working is a privilege that may be
granted on an individual basis under appropriate circumstances to employees
whose job responsibilities are suited to such an arrangement and who meet
eligibility criteria.
   (C)   Application and Scope.
      (1)   If you are requesting mobile working based on your own medical
condition or that of a family member, your request should be evaluated pursuant
to village guidelines, such as those relating to Family Medical Leave and
Short-term disability Leave. For more information, contact your HR Manager.
      (2)   Mobile working agreements do not change the conditions of
employment or required compliance with policies, rules, and regulations.
   (D)   Eligibility. Employees requesting mobile working arrangements must
have been employed with the Village of Romeoville for a minimum of 12 months of
continuous, regular employment and must have exhibited above-average
performance, in accordance with the Village of Romeoville’s performance
appraisal process.
      (1)   Apply for a short-term accommodation tor a disability (the leave
would be intermittent)
      (2)   Have a prolonged sickness
      (3)   Must be able to perform your job duties
      (4)   The employee must be off work a minimum of one week on FMLA leave
or any other extended sick/disability leave before we consider mobile working.
The employee must have a doctor’s note releasing them to work from home.
   (E)   Process.
      (1)   Either an employee or a supervisor can suggest mobile working as a
possible work arrangement. There is a request form that needs to be completed
and given to the supervisor by the employee and if the supervisor request
mobile working, then they will give the employee the form to fill out.
      (2)   The Manager and the employee must agree to and sign the Mobile
Working Form Request. The completed form is sent to the HR Manager for their
approval.
   (F)   Terms of Policy.
      (1)   Short-term arrangement can be made for employees on family or
medical leave, to the extent practical for the employee and the organization
and with the consent of the employee’s health care provider, if appropriate.
All mobile working arrangements are made on a case-by-case basis, focusing
first on the business needs of the Village of Romeoville.
      (2)   Any mobile working arrangement made will be on a trial basis and
will not exceed the length of the family or medical leave. This arrangement may
be discontinued, at will, at any time at the request of either the employee or
the Village of Romeoville.
      (3)   Consistent with the Village’s expectation of information security
for employees working at the office, mobile working employees will be expected
to ensure the protection of village and resident information accessible from
their home office. Files should be in a safe and secure place and your password
should remain private and inaccessible to others at the employee’s residence.
The organization’s computer systems and applications, mainframe connections,
networks, computers, and fax machines, must comply with all security
requirements. Any requests for access to any of these connections or devices
must be reviewed and approved by the Department Manager and the IT department.
      (4)   The employee and supervisor will agree on the number of days of
mobile working allowed each week, the work schedule the employee will
customarily maintain, and the manner and frequency of communication. The
employee agrees to be accessible by phone, email, or text within a reasonable
time during the agreed-on-work schedule.
      (5)   Before entering any mobile working position, the employee, and
Department Manager, with the assistance of the Human Resource Department, will
evaluate the suitability of such an arrangement paying particular attention to
the following areas:
         (a)   Employee suitability - The employee and the department Manager
will assess the needs and work habits of the employee, comparted to traits
customarily recognized as appropriate for successful telecommuters.
         (b)   Job responsibilities - The employee and the department Manager
will discuss the job responsibilities and determine if the job is appropriate
for mobile working.
         (c)   Equipment needs, workspace and scheduling issues.
      (6)   An appropriate level of communication between the employee and
Supervisor will be agreed to as part of the discussion process. The Supervisor
and employee will communicate at a level consistent with employees working at
the office or in a manner or frequency that seems appropriate for the job and
the individuals involved.
      (7)   Mobile working is not designed to be a replacement for appropriate
childcare. Although an individual employee’s schedule may be modified to
accommodate childcare needs, the focus of the arrangement must remain on job
performance and meeting village demands. Prospective mobile working employees
are encouraged to discuss expectations of mobile working with family members
prior to implementation of this new schedule.
      (8)   The availability of mobile working as a flexible work arrangement
for employees of the Village of Romeoville can be discontinued at any time at
the discretion of the employer. Every effort will be made to provide 30 days’
notice of such a change to accommodate commuting, childcare and other problems
that may arise from such a change. There may be instances, however, when no
notice is possible.
      (9)   The policies and procedures that normally apply to your current
workplace shall remain the same for mobile working employees. This shall
include but not limited to performance management. Mobile working assignments
do not change the condition of employment or required compliance with policies
and rules. Employee salary, benefits, workers’ compensation, sick leave,
vacation leave, and other employee insurance shall not change due to telework.
Likewise, the duties, obligations, and responsibilities of mobile working
employees remain the same.
   (G)   Workers’ Compensation.
      (1)   If the employee is injured in the course and scope of performing
official duties during the agreed upon work hours, regardless of locations, the
employee is covered under the state’s workers’ compensation law. The employee
must notify their supervisor immediately and complete the necessary forms.
      (2)   The Village is not responsible for any injuries to family members,
visitors, and others in the employee’s home.
   (H)   Workspace.
      (1)   Equipment Liability. The Village of Romeoville will determine, with
information supplied by the employee and the supervisor, the appropriate
equipment needs for each mobile working arrangement on a case-by-case basis.
The human resource and information system departments will serve as resources
in this matter. Equipment supplied by the Village of Romeoville will be
maintained by the Village. Equipment supplied by the employee, if deemed
appropriate by the Village, will be maintained by the employee. The Village of
Romeoville accepts no responsibility for damage or repairs to employee-owned
equipment. Equipment supplied by the Village of Romeoville is to be used for
business purposes only. The employee will sign an inventory sheet of all office
property and agrees to take appropriate action to protect the items from damage
or theft.
      (2)   Site Visit. The employee shall designate a workspace within a
remote work location for placement and installation of equipment to be used
while teleworking. The Village must approve the site chosen as the employee’s
remote workspace. The employee is expected to submit three photos of the home
workspace to management prior to implementation. The employee will be
responsible for all costs associated with remodeling, electrical modifications,
or other permanent improvement to the home office workspace. The employer will
not provide office furniture for the workspace at home. We may supply an
ergonomic chair on a case-by-case basis when funding allows.
   (I)   Cyber Security.
      (1)   Software. Only software owned by the Village may be installed on a
computer owned by the Village. The IT department will provide appropriately
licensed software necessary for telework.
      (2)   Internet Liability. The employee remains responsible for all files,
links, data they transmit via the Internet. The employee agrees to follow
guidelines and rules of conduct as if they are working from the regular office.
      (3)   No personal business. An employee who is working from home shall
not conduct personal business during their work shift unless during their break
or lunch. No personal business may be conducted on village-owned equipment
unless it is related to a course of study approved by the Village. Supplies
given to the employee from the Village cannot be used for personal business.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 5: LEAVE AND HOLIDAYS
§ 5.1 PREVIOUSLY ACCRUED BENEFITS.
   All Village employees who had accrued sick leave and vacation prior to 2023
shall maintain on the date of adoption of this policy manual all the benefits
previously accrued. All employees shall be subject to the provisions of this
policy manual as of the effective date of passage.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.2 VACATION LEAVE (EXCLUDES PART-TIME FIREFIGHTERS/PARAMEDIC/EMT).
   (A)   Vacation leave with pay shall be earned by full-time employees and
accrued on a bi-weekly basis. Vacation leave with pay may not be taken during
the first six (6) months of employment.
   (B)   In addition, Part-time employees who work a minimum twenty (20) hours
per week, year-round, Monday through Friday shall accrue at one half the rate
as a full-time employee.
   (C)   Vacation leave is accrued in the following manner:
 
4 years of service and less 10 days/year
5 to 9 years of service     15 days/year
10 to 14 years of service   20 days/year
15 to 19 years of service   25 days/year
20+ years of service        30 days/year
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.3 VACATION ACCRUAL AND USE.
   (A)   Vacation schedules shall be arranged to provide minimal disruption to
department operations. Request for vacation leave should be submitted to the
Department Manager for approval. Vacation can be denied for operational
reasons. The Village Manager can authorize a buy out of accrued vacation time.
   (B)   The total accrued vacation time may not exceed thirty-five (35) days
(280 hours). When this maximum time is reached, the employee will not accrue
vacation time until time is taken.
   (C)   Employees are required to notify their immediate supervisor no less
than five (5) days before the use of more than one (1) day and provide twenty-
four (24) hours prior to taking one (1) day or less. In case of an emergency
this can be waived. No more than three (3) consecutive weeks can be taken.
   (D)   If a holiday falls during an employee’s vacation, holiday pay will be
given.
   (E)   (1)   Should an employee become ill or disabled prior to a scheduled
vacation, upon a written doctor’s notice, the employee’s vacation can be
deferred until termination of the absence.
      (2)   An employee on unpaid leave will have their vacation accrual pro-
rated based on the hours worked during the pay period. If the employee is on
unpaid leave for the entire two (2) weeks, they will not receive any accrual
during that pay period.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.4 VACATION PAY UPON RETIREMENT.
   (A)   Employees may convert accumulated vacation leave to dollars which can
then be applied towards the payment of the group health insurance coverage
premium. You can also receive payment for your accrued vacation pay on your
final check. This benefit is only for an employee who is retiring from the
Village of Romeoville. Retirement is defined as collecting a pension. Employees
will be allowed to use the vacation time conversion if the maximum sick leave
accrual of 4000 hours, or 2500 hours if the full time employee was hired after
May 01, 2016, has not been met.
   (B)   Vacation Time Conversion. Upon retirement from Village employment,
employees will receive pay for their accumulated vacation leave, or at the
option of the employee, may convert accumulated vacation leave to dollars
applied toward the payment of the group insurance coverage premium. The Village
will not match the vacation time the employee contributes to the sick time bank
for non-union sworn personnel. (Non-union sworn personnel will be allowed to
use the vacation time conversion as long as the maximum sick leave accrual of
5800 has not been met.)
   (C)   Vacation Pay upon Termination or Resignation. You will receive payment
of any accrued vacation pay on your final check.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.5 VOLUNTARY DONATIONS FOR CATASTROPHIC ILLNESSES OR INJURIES.
   (A)   Any full-time Village employee who personally suffers from a
catastrophic illness or injury and who has exhausted all paid leave benefits
provided by the Village may request voluntary donations of accrued time from
other regular Village employees. The employee will submit a written request to
the Village Manager stating the facts, showing the need for their request and
the nature and extent of the catastrophic illness or injury. The written
request must also include the availability of disability payments from the
Police or Fire Pension Funds, I.M.R.F., Social Security, etc. Any employee
requesting donated time for themself must be totally disabled from performing
all work for the Village.
   (B)   Any full-time Village employee, whose spouse, son/stepson, or
daughter/stepdaughter, under the age of twenty-three (23), or dependent
residing in the same household with the Village employee suffers from a
catastrophic illness or injury, may also request, in writing, that the Village
Manager request voluntary donations of accrued time from other full-time
employees. The request to the Village Manager must state the facts showing need
for the request, the nature and extent to the catastrophic illness or injury
and demonstrate a severe and unusual financial hardship on the affected regular
employee. The request for voluntary donation of accrued time must come from the
affected employee and may not be requested by any other person or organization
on behalf of the affected employee.
   (C)   The decision to solicit the Village work force for voluntary donations
of accrued time rests solely with the Village Manager, and the appropriateness
of the solicitation will be determined on a case-by-case basis. The Village
Manager may request and require personal financial information and medical
documentation from the requesting employee prior to approving any solicitation
of the Village work force.
   (D)   Any full-time Village employee can submit a written request to their
Department Manager or Human Resources to voluntarily donate any accrued time to
assist a fellow employee. Any accrued time in four (4) hour blocks of time may
be donated, and any donated time will be permanently deducted from the earned
account of the donating employee. Only one solicitation will be permitted for
any one individual per calendar year. The solicitation will be for a thirty
(30) calendar day period.
   (E)   Each Department Manager will be responsible for forwarding the written
request for donated time to the Human Resources Manager. The Human Resources
Manager will make the appropriate deductions from the account of the donating
employee.
   (F)   At the end of the thirty (30) calendar day solicitation period, the
Human Resources Manager will convert all donated hours from employees into
hours for the recipient requesting the donations. The payments will be made on
biweekly paydays until the hours are depleted. The payment will be treated the
same as ordinary income and taxed at the employee normal rate.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.6 SICK LEAVE (EXCLUDES PART-TIME FIREFIGHTERS/PARAMEDIC/EMT).
   (A)   Purpose. Sick leave shall not be considered as a privilege or vested
right that employees may use at their discretion but shall be considered as a
type of insurance which shall be allowed in case of necessity and actual
illness, legal quarantine, or disability of employee, or to receive dental or
medical care or other preventive care. Sick leave may also be used for illness,
injury, or medical appointment of the employee’s child, spouse, parent. The
Village may request prior to payment for sick leave, evidence in the form of
written certification of use of sick leave, if reasonable grounds exist to
suspect abuse or if the absence has exceeded three consecutive work days.
   (B)   Notice. Department Managers, Human Resources, and the Executive
Assistants that work in Administration will have to notify the Village Manager
by email or text regarding their request for sick leave as soon as they are
aware of the need for sick time, but no later than prior to the beginning of
the employee’s workday. Doctor’s appointment request should be given at least
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled appointment.
   (C)   When Denied. No sick leave shall be allowed for illness, injury or
physical inability resulting from misconduct on the job, or excessive use of
alcohol or narcotics, except as provided in Section 5.6(A). No additional time
off will be allowed for any holidays occurring during an employee’s sick leave.
No sick leave benefits of any kind will be granted after termination of
employment.
   (D)   Accrual
      (1)   Full-time employees with less than fifteen (15) years of service
earn sick leave at a rate of one (1) day (eight hours) for each full calendar
month worked. Regular employees with fifteen (15) or more years of service
shall earn sick leave at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) days per month.
Employees with twenty (20) or more years of service shall earn sick leave at
the rate of (2) days (sixteen hours) per month. Sick leave will be granted in
minimum amounts of a half hour.
      (2)   Part-time employees who work a minimum of twenty (20) hours per
week, year-round, Monday through Friday shall accrue at one half the rate as a
full-time employee.
      (3)   No sick leave can be earned during unpaid leave. An employee on
unpaid leave will have their sick accrual pro-rated based on the hours worked
during the pay period. If the employee is on unpaid leave for the entire two
weeks, they will not receive any accrual during that pay-period.
      (4)   Full-time and Part-time employees hired before May 1, 2016, may
accumulate a maximum of 4,000 hours of sick time.
      (5)   Full-time and Part-time employees hired after May 01, 2016, may
accumulate a maximum of 2,500 hours of sick leave.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.7 UNUSED SICK LEAVE AT RETIREMENT AND HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (A)   When an employee retires, the value of unused sick time may be applied
toward the payment of continuing health insurance by one of the approved
methods. The Village may offer two different options to the retiree on how the
premiums can be paid. Retirement is defined as collecting a pension.
      (1)   Option 1: The retiree can stay on the Village’s health insurance
plan and the monthly premium will be deducted from the value of the retiree’s
sick bank.
      (2)   Option 2: The retiree can choose an outside vendor and the Village
will pay vendor directly and deduct the monthly premium from the value of the
retiree’s sick bank. The maximum the Village will pay is equal to the amount
the Village would pay under Option 1 based upon the coverage the employee had
at the time of retirement.
   (B)   The Village may offer the retiring employee four types of coverage:
(1) Retiree only, (2) Retiree and spouse, (3) Retiree and child(children) and
(4) Retiree and family. The premium charged will be reviewed by the Village on
an annual basis, and if there are any changes to be made, the retiree will be
notified.
   (C)   Once the employee and/or spouse reach age 65 and are Medicare
qualified, they must enroll in the Village’s carve out plan for Medicare
retirees only. The premium can be paid from your sick bank if you have not
depleted it, or the retiree pays the company directly.
   (D)   In the event the retired employee dies prior to becoming 65 years of
age, the surviving spouse shall be eligible coverage based on the option the
retiree was participating in at the time of their death. The surviving spouse
is only eligible if they are receiving a monthly pension from the retirement
system in which the employee participated.
   (E)   Calculating the Value of Sick Time at Retirement.
      (1)   For employees hired prior to January 01, 2023, the value of unused
sick hours is equivalent to the employee’s ending rate of pay multiplied by
total unused sick time hours up to the maximum allowed.
      (2)   For employees hired after January 1, 2023, the value of unused sick
hours is calculated using the employee’s pay rate at the time the employee
accrued the sick time, using the first-earned, first-used valuation method.
      (3)   First-earned, first-used means the employee uses the sick hours
that are earned from start of employment first for the valuation of ending
balance purposes. First-earned, first-used values the balance by applying the
pay rate and sick time earned closest to retirement and going back using the
appropriate pay rate and earned rate until remaining hours balance is fully
calculated.
      (4)   Example valuation table
         Employee retires with 575.64 balance at end of year 30 of employment
with a pay rate of $50
         Employee earned 191.88 hours during year 30 at $50/hr = $9,594.00
         Employee earned 191.88 hours during year 29 at $40/hr = $7,675.20
         Employee earned 191.88 hours during year 28 at $30/hr = $5,765.40
         Employee earned 191.88 hours during year 27 at $29/hr = $0 (available
hours balance past 575.64 ending balance, stop further calculation)
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.8 UNUSED SICK LEAVE AT RESIGNATION OR RETIREMENT AND COMPENSATION (not
eligible for map employees receiving sick-time matching).
   (A)   When a non-bargaining unit employee resigns or retires the Village of
Romeoville will buy back unused accumulated sick leave up to a maximum of 1,500
hours, in accordance with the formula below:
 
Years of Service  Percentage of Buy Back
Under 10 yrs.     0%
10 yrs. – 19 yrs10%
20 yrs. – 29 yrs20%
30 yrs. or more   30%
 
   (B)   Employees that are retiring can choose to convert up to 1,500 hours in
accordance with the formula listed in this section and use the remaining sick
time balance, if any, towards health insurance coverage as detailed in Section
5.7.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.9 UNUSED SICK LEAVE AND ADDITIONAL IMRF SERVICE CREDIT.
   (A)   If an employee has unused, unpaid sick days, they may qualify for a
maximum of one year (240 days – 1,920 hours) of additional service credit for
unused, unpaid sick days. Sick days used toward IMRF service credit cannot also
be applied to health insurance credit or compensation detailed in sections 5.7
and 5.8. You earn one month of service credit for every 20 days of unused,
unpaid sick leave or fraction thereof. For example:
 
Unused, Unpaid Sick Days    Additional Month of Service Credit
1-20                        1 month
21-40                       2 months
41-60                       3 months
61-80                       4 months
81-100                      5 months
101-120 etc. up to 240 days 6 months
 
   (B)   To convert the sick days to service credit, the sick days must meet
certain criteria. You must not have received compensation of any kind—including
payment of amounts less than your regular salary—for the sick leave. And the
sick leave must have been accumulated under a written plan established by your
employer and available to all employees or to a class of employees.
   (C)   This additional service credit applies:
      (1)   If you are leaving employment for retirement. The sick leave must
have been earned under an established sick leave plan available to all
employees or a class of employees, and the effective date of your pension must
be within 60 days of your last day of participation in IMRF.
      (2)   If a member dies while participating in IMRF and a surviving spouse
pension is payable. Because a surviving spouse pension is based on the pension
the deceased member had earned, IMRF includes unused, unpaid sick days when
calculating a surviving spouse pension.
   (D)   For employees in Tier I please note: converted sick leave credit
cannot be used to meet the following service requirements:
      (1)   Eight years for an IMRF pension,
      (2)   35 years for an unreduced pension under age 60, or
      (3)   20 years for the IMRF Early Retirement Incentive
   (E)   For Employees in Tier II please note converted sick leave credit
cannot be used to meet the following service requirements:
      (1)   10 years for an IMRF pension
      (2)   35 years for an unreduced pension at age 62
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.10 FUNERAL LEAVE/FAMILY BEREAVEMENT LEAVE (excludes part-time firefighters/
paramedic/EMT).
   (A)   Leave of absence with pay will be granted for up to four (4)
consecutive days to any employee in the event of a death in the employee’s
covered family member. The definition of covered family is. Employee’s spouse,
child, parent, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandchild, grandparents,
spouse’s grandparents, stepparents, stepchildren, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew,
or domestic partner.
   (B)   Such leave will be at full pay and will not be charged against accrued
sick leave or vacation leave. In the event an employee must travel 400 miles or
more for such leave, the Village Manager or designee may grant one (1)
additional day of leave. Any request for bereavement leave in excess of four
days excluding the one (1 day for travel time) will be subject to approval of
the Village Manager and will be chargeable to other accrued leaves. Employees
must utilize paid bereavement leave within two weeks of receiving notification
of the death of a covered family member. Any requests to extend the use of paid
bereavement leave beyond this two-week period must be approved by the Village
Manager. Employees also have a right to use a maximum of ten (10) workdays of
unpaid bereavement leave under the Family Bereavement Leave Act 8201 LCS 154/1
(ML1)
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.11 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE.
   (A)   Eligibility: The purpose of the Family and Medical Leave Act (29
U.S.C. § 2601 et seq., “F.M.L.A.”) is to balance the needs of families with the
demands of the workplace. Any employee who has been employed for at least
twelve (12) months and worked at least 1,250 regular scheduled hours during the
previous twelve (12) months is eligible for this leave.
   (B)   Calculation of Leave: The Village counts FMLA leave on a “rolling
backward basis” from the date an employee uses any FMLA leave. A rolling
forward basis, however, is used to track the 26 weeks of family military leave
available to care for an injured service member.
   (C)   Employees are entitled to take up to 12 weeks’ unpaid leave per
rolling calendar basis for the following purposes:
      (1)   The birth of the employee’s child.
      (2)   The placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster
care.
      (3)   To care for the employee’s spouse, child or parent who has a
serious health condition.
      (4)   A serious health condition rendering the employee unable to perform
their job.
   (D)   Under FMLA, employees will be required to use all accrued leave prior
to going on unpaid leave.
   (E)   All employees are required to provide at least thirty (30) days’
notice, if possible, of their intention to take leave. This notification must
be in writing to the respective Department Manager.
   (F)   The Village may require medical certification that the leave is needed
due to the employee’s own serious health condition or that of a family member.
The Village may also, at the Village’s expense, require a second medical
opinion. If the first and second opinions differ, the Village may request a
third opinion, at the Village’s expense, which would then be determinative of
eligibility. The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (Pub. Law
No. 110-233, 122 Stat. 881, “GINA”) prohibits employers and other entities
covered by GINA Title II from requesting or requiring genetic information of an
individual or family member of the individual, except as specifically allowed
by this law. To comply with this law, we are asking that you not provide any
genetic information when responding to this request for medical information.
“Genetic information,” as defined by GINA, includes an individual’s family
medical history, the results of an individual’s or family member’s genetic
tests, the fact that an individual or an individual’s family member sought or
received genetic services, and genetic information of a fetus carried by an
individual or an individual’s family member or an embryo lawfully held by an
individual or family member receiving assistive reproductive services.
   (G)   An employee on such leave does not accumulate sick leave or vacation
leave during the period they are on unpaid leave. Further, the employee’s
anniversary date shall be adjusted by the same number of days during this
leave.
   (H)   Military Family Leave.
      (1)   When an employee wishes to return to work following a medical
leave, the Village may require a doctor’s release stating the employee is fit
to work.
      (2)   Upon returning from leave, an employee is entitled to return to
their same or equivalent position with equivalent pay, benefits and other terms
and conditions of employment.
         (a)   Eligible employees may use their 12-week leave entitlement to
address certain qualifying exigencies when their spouse, son, daughter, or
parent 1) is a member of the Reserves or National Guard and has been called up
to active duty or notified of an impending call or order to active duty in
support of a “contingency operation”; or 2) is a member of a regular component
of the Armed forces. Qualifying exigencies may include short notice deployment,
attending military events and related activities, arranging for alternative
childcare and school activities, addressing certain financial and legal
arrangements, attending certain counseling, rest and recuperations, attending
certain post-deployment activities and such other eligible additional
activities to address other events that arise out of the covered service
member’s active duty or call to active-duty status.
         (b)   FMLA also includes a special leave entitlement that permits
eligible employees to take up to 26 weeks of leave to care for a covered
service member where the employee is a spouse, son, or daughter, parent or next
of kin of the covered service member during a single 12-month period. A covered
service member is a current member of the Armed Forces, including a member of
the National Guard or Reserves, who has a serious injury or illness incurred in
the line of duty on active duty that may render the service member medically
unfit to perform their duties for which the service member is undergoing
medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy; or is in outpatient status; or is
on the temporary disability retired list; or a veteran who is undergoing
medical treatment, recuperation or therapy for a serious injury or illness and
who was a member of the Armed Forces, including the National Guard and
Reserves, at any time during the five-year period preceding the date on which
the veteran undergoes medical treatment, recuperation or therapy.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.12 DISABILITY LEAVE.
   (A)   During your leave you must submit all medical documentation after
every doctor’s appointment. This documentation must be at a minimum of once
monthly. The employee may be required at the Village’s discretion and expense,
to have a physical examination by a doctor designated by the Village to
determine the employee’s capacity to perform assigned work or to verify the
need to continue such leave. Employees shall notify their supervisor of their
availability to return to work at least five (5) days prior to the expiration
of the leave granted or extended. Employees are only eligible for two
disability leaves in a 7-year span.
   (B)   Employees who have exhausted their accumulated sick leave days but are
unable to report to or go back to work because of a start or continuance of
illness, injury or pregnancy related disabilities may receive additional leave
without pay for a period not to exceed three (3) months. The employee must
request such leave from the Village Manager. To qualify for such leave, the
employee must report the disability as soon as the need for such leave becomes
known, and thereafter furnish to the Village Manager or designee a physician’s
written statement of the nature of the disability and the estimated length of
time that the employee will be unavailable for work, together with a written
application for such leave. Such leaves are purely discretionary and if
approved, will initially be granted for a period of one (1) month.
   (C)   All health benefits will continue during this leave. The employee will
be responsible for their portion of the health insurance and may be responsible
for the employer portion.
   (D)   Before returning from a leave of absence for disability, or at thirty
(30) day intervals during such leave, the employee may be required, at the
Village’s discretion and expense, to have a physical examination by a doctor
designated by the Village to determine the employee’s capacity to perform
assigned work or to verify the need to continue such leave. Employees shall
notify their supervisor of their availability to return to work at least five
(5) working days prior to the expiration of the leave as granted or extended.
To ensure no service time is lost, any participants in I.M.R.F. must file for
disability benefits as soon as notification is given of disability.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.13 VOTING LEAVE.
   Time off to vote will be made available, with the approval of an employee’s
Department Manager, if a reasonable period of off-duty time is not available.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.14 PERSONAL LEAVE (excludes part-time firefighters/paramedic/EMT).
   (A)   All employees shall receive three (3) personal leave days per calendar
year (the equivalent of 24 hours of paid time). Normally, employees must
request personal leave at least 24 hours in advance and have the approval of
their supervisor or Department Manager. In case of an emergency, the Village
may waive the notification period. Personal leave may not be taken in less than
one-hour increments. Staff that work different shifts other than 8 hours will
accrue and use hours based in accordance with their schedule.
   (B)   Personal leave must be used by December 31 of the following year in
which it is given, or it will be dropped from the employee’s record.
   (C)   Upon separation from Village employment, an employee will receive pay
for earned, but not used, personal leave days.
   (D)   Employees hired after January 1 will receive their personal time
according to the following schedule:
      If hired during:      Will receive:
      Jan, Feb, March      24 hours
      April May, June      16 hours
      July, Aug, Sept      8 hours
      Oct, Nov, Dec      0 hours
   (E)   In addition, those Part-time employees who work a minimum twenty (20)
hours per week, year-round, Monday through Friday shall accrue at one half the
rate as a full-time employee.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.15 CIVIL LEAVE-JURY DUTY.
   Any regular or probationary employee who is required to serve as a juror or
who is under subpoena as a witness in court related to Village business shall
be granted leave with pay while serving in such capacity. Upon completion of
jury service, the employee shall submit the jury check received to the Office
Manager, Executive Assistant and/or their Supervisor.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.16 SCHOOL VISITATION LEAVE.
   An employee is eligible for an unpaid leave of up to eight (8) hours during
any school year and no more than four (4) hours on any given day to attend
school conferences, or classroom activities of their children) in accordance
with the School Visitation Rights Act (820 ILCS 147/1) after providing
sufficient notice to their supervisor. No School Visitation may be taken by the
employee unless the employee has exhausted all accrued vacation leave, personal
leave, compensatory leave and any other leave that may be granted to the
employee except sick leave and disability leave.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.17 MILITARY LEAVE.
   Employees will be granted a leave of absence for military service in
accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Employees are responsible
for furnishing the Village with the expected beginning and ending dates of
military service, including copies of military orders, as far in advance as
possible.
   (A)   Eligibility: Any employee affiliated with the United States Army,
Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard, National Guard, Reserves, or contract
military service is eligible.
   (B)   Effect on Benefits: If applicable, an employee granted leave under
this policy will continue to be covered under the Village’s group health
insurance plan on the same conditions as coverage would have been provided if
they had been continuously working during the leave period. To maintain
uninterrupted coverage, an employee will be required to continue to pay their
portion of insurance premium payments, if applicable. Payments for which an
employee is responsible are subject to any change in premium rates while the
employee is on leave. During the leave, monthly payments should be forwarded to
the Finance Department no later than the first of the month. If applicable, an
employee will continue to accrue benefit hours (sick, personal, or vacation)
while they are on military leave.
   (C)   Effect on Wages: Any employee, who is a member of any reservist
component of the United States Armed Services and is mobilized to active
military duty, will receive their full District salary minus the amount of
their base pay for military service, for the duration of their active military
service. Any full-time employee who is a member of any reservist component of
the United States Armed Services will be granted leave for any period actively
spent in military activity, including: basic training, special or advanced
training, and annual training. During leaves for annual training, the employee
will continue to receive their full Village pay. During leaves for basic
training and up to 60 days of special or advanced training, the employee will
receive their full District salary minus the amount of their base pay for
military activities. If an employee is called to active military duty by order
of the President of the United States, the employee will receive their full
District salary, minus the amount of their base pay for military service, for
the duration of their active military service.
   (D)   Reinstatement: An employee returning from military leave will be
entitled to reinstatement in accordance with the applicable federal and state
laws. The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (38
U.S.C. §§ 4301 through 4335 “USERRA”) requires that returning service personnel
be “promptly” re-employed in the same or similar position that they would have
attained if they had not been absent for military service. Under USERRA, to
return to the workplace, an employee must have been honorably discharged and
cumulative military leave is less than five years. An employee is required to
give the district prompt notification of intent to return to work. The amount
of required notice to the district varies based on the length of an employee’s
absence.
   (E)   After Reinstatement: After reinstatement, an employee enjoys a certain
level of job security. Employees can only be terminated “for cause” for a
specified time, depending on their length of service.
   (F)   Illinois Family Military Leave: An employee whose qualified family
member is engaged in military service may be granted an unpaid leave of absence
for family military leave subject to certain conditions. The Village will
require certification from the proper military authority to verify the
employee’s eligibility for the family military leave requested.
      (1)   Eligibility: Any employee who has been employed by the Village for
at least 12 consecutive months and has worked at least 1,250 hours during the
12-month period immediately preceding the commencement of the leave is
eligible. An employee may request up to 30 days of unpaid leave in a single
12month period to care for their spouse, parent, child, or grandchild, who is a
member of the Armed Forces (including the Reserves and the National Guard) and
who has a serious injury or illness incurred in the line of duty while on
active duty and is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation or therapy. If an
employee uses qualifying exigency leave under FMLA, the amount available under
this leave will be reduced by the number of days taken under FMLA.
      (2)   Effect on Benefits: An employee granted leave under this policy
will continue to be covered under the Village’s group health insurance plan on
the same conditions as coverage would have been provided if they had been
continuously employed during the leave period. To maintain uninterrupted
coverage, an employee will be required to continue to pay their portion of
insurance premium payments, if applicable. Payments for which an employee is
responsible are subject to any change in premium rates while the employee is on
leave. If the employee contributes to a group insurance plan in addition to the
group health plan, the employee must continue to pay their portion of the
insurance premium payments. During the leave, monthly payments should be
forwarded to the Finance Department no later than the first of the month. If
the employee’s payment is more than 30 days late, the Village will terminate
coverage; however, coverage will be reinstated upon the employee’ s return to
work. An employee will not accrue any type of benefit hours (sick, personal or
vacation) while they are on Family Military Leave.
      (3)   Utilization of Accrued Benefits: An employee may not take Family
Military Leave as provided under this policy unless they have exhausted all
accrued vacation leave, personal leave, compensatory leave, and any other leave
that may be granted to the employee, except sick leave and disability leave.
      (4)   Reinstatement: Any employee who exercises the right to family
military leave under this policy, upon expiration of the leave, shall be
entitled to be restored to the position held when the leave commenced or to a
position with equivalent seniority status, employee benefits, pay and other
terms and conditions of employment as required by the FMLA. This Section does
not apply if the employee was not restored as provided in this Section because
of conditions unrelated to the employee’s exercise of rights under this policy.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.18 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   Holiday pay will be granted for employees for the following holidays:
         New Year’s Day            Labor Day
         Martin Luther King Day         Veteran’s Day
         Presidents’ Day            Thanksgiving Day
         Good Friday               Friday after Thanksgiving
         Memorial Day            Christmas Eve
         Juneteenth Day            Christmas Day
         Fourth of July            New Year’s Eve
   (B)   Holidays may change in accordance with Collective Bargaining
Agreements.
   (C)   Holidays falling on Saturday are observed on the preceding Friday.
Holidays falling on a Sunday are observed the following Monday. With the
exception of shift work personnel who work seven (7) days, they will observe
the holiday on actual holiday.
   (D)   All Administration offices will be closed on the above holidays.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.19 EMERGENCY STAFFING POLICY.
   If the Village Manager declares an emergency the following procedures will
be implemented:
   (A)   In the event of an emergency, all non-emergency personnel that are
ordered to stay home will be paid their normal hourly wages.
   (B)   All emergency personnel who are required to work will be paid their
normal hourly wage and will receive eight (8) hours of additional time off.
   (C)   Any personnel that are ordered into work but are unable to make it
will be required to use vacation or personal time for that day.
   (D)   Any personnel that are already scheduled for that day off will be
required to use the time off that was previously requested. No additional time
will be granted.
   (E)   Department Managers will not be given additional time off if they are
called into work for the emergency.
   (F)   The Village Manager if they choose will direct Department Managers to
call in staff to ensure that there is proper staffing in each department so
that the needs of the Village can be met.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 5.20 PAID LEAVE.
   (A)   This policy shall only apply to recreation department staff, part-time
firefighters, part-time paramedic, part-time EMT, and any other employees that
are not eligible for paid leave, including but not limited to sick leave,
personal leave, vacation leave, PTO, under another Village policy, collective
bargaining agreement, contract, or any other benefit package.
   (B)   All employees will earn 1 hour of Paid Leave for every 40 hours that
employee actually works, and shall be eligible to receive up to 40 hours of
Paid Leave. Employees are eligible to request and use Paid Leave after the
applicable amount of Paid Leave is accrued. Paid Leave may be used by the
employee for any purpose in the minimum increment of 2 hours per day. Employee
are eligible to request accrued paid leave after January 01, 2024 or 90 days
after the employee’s first date of employment whichever is later.
   (C)   If use of Paid Leave under this section is foreseeable, the employee
must provide at least 7 calendar days’ notice in writing before the date the
leave is to begin. If Paid Leave under this section is not foreseeable, the
employee shall provide such written notice as soon as is practicable after the
employee is aware of the necessity of the leave by email to their immediate
supervisor.
   (D)   Notice prior to use and denial of use shall be consistent with Section
5.6 Sick Leave.
   (E)   Employees are permitted to carryover unused Paid Leave year to year,
and shall not be paid out the monetary equivalent for unused Paid Leave at the
end of the year. Employees may not use more than 40 hours of paid leave per
accrual period (regardless of any carryover) Employees who have 40 hours of
leave either through accrual or carryover or both, will not accrue additional
time until they fall below the 40 hours. Unused Paid Leave is forfeited upon
separation from employment
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 6: INSURANCE PROGRAMS
§ 6.0 NON-UNION SWORN PERSONNEL CHIEFS AND COMMANDERS PROVISIONS SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   The following benefits will be provided to non-union sworn police
personnel of the Romeoville Police Department.
   (B)   Sick leave shall be earned at the rate of eight (8) hours per each
full calendar month of service and may be used only after it is earned.
Employees with fifteen (15) or more years of service shall earn sick leave at a
rate of twelve (12) hours per month. Employees with twenty (20) or more years
of service shall earn sick leave at a rate of sixteen (16) hours per month. On
duty disability shall not be charged to the accumulated non-duty sick leave of
the employee. Any employee placed on inactive status or on non-pay leave status
does not accumulate sick leave during these periods.
   (C)   Sick leave may be accumulated to a maximum of 450 days (3,600 hours).
   (D)   The Village Manager has the authority to amend this section as needed
when necessary.
   (E)   Sick leave conversion for employees.
      (1)   When a non-union sworn officer retires, the unused sick time may be
applied toward the payment of health insurance. The Village will provide a one
to one match (1:1) to the employee’s accumulated sick time based on the
following scale.
Years of Service Maximum Hours to be matched
Years of Service Maximum Hours to be matched
20               700
21               800
22               900
23               1,000
24               1,100
25               1,200
26               1,400
27               1,600
28               1,800
29               2,000
30               2,200
 
      (2)   The maximum numbers of hours an officer can have available for
insurance coverage at the time of retirement is 5,800 hours. (3,600 hours sick
time accumulation plus 2,200 Village matches at 30 years.)
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 6.1 INSURANCE BENEFIT PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Group Health Insurance: The Village offers various choices for group
health insurance including several medical plan options, a vision plan and a
dental plan.
      (1)   Eligibility: All full-time employees become eligible to participate
in all group health insurance plans on their first day of the month following
their date of hire. Dependent coverage is also available.
      (2)   Cost:
         (a)   Regular Full-time Non-Union hired after 01/01/2018 and Fire
Union Full-Time after 01/01/2016: The Village will contribute the equivalent of
88% of the lowest cost of either the HMO or PPO $750.00 health insurance
premium. Employees can select to participate in any of the insurance plan
options but are responsible through payroll deductions to pay any additional
premium expense on the plan selected.
         (b)   Regular Full-time Non-Union prior to 01/01/2018 and Fire Union
Full-Time prior to 01/01/2016: The Village will contribute the equivalent of
95% of the lowest cost of either the HMO or PPO $750.00 health insurance
premium. Employees can select to participate in any of the insurance plan
options but are responsible through payroll deductions to pay any additional
premium expense on the plan selected.
         (c)   Police Union Full Time: For employees hired prior to May 2016,
the Village will contribute 95% of the cost of the HMO health insurance plan.
The employee is responsible to pay any additional premium expense. For
employees hired after January 2016, the Village will contribute 88% of the cost
of the HMO health insurance premium. The employee is responsible through
payroll deductions to pay any additional premium expense. Employees hired after
January 2016 are only eligible for HMO health insurance
         (d)   Clerical Union Full-Time: For employees hired prior to May 2018,
the Village will contribute 95% of the cost of the HMO health insurance plan.
The employee is responsible to pay any additional premium expense. For
employees hired after January 2016, the Village will contribute 88% of the cost
towards the health insurance premium. The employee is responsible through
payroll deductions to pay any additional premium expense. Employees hired after
January 2016 are only eligible for HMO health insurance
         (e)   Part-time 1560 employees:
            1.   Employees are eligible to enroll in the PPO group medical
insurance offered for the period during the applicable “stability period”
during which the employee remains actively employed with the employer. If an
employee’s hours are measured over a standard measurement period, the
applicable “stability period” will be the “standard stability period” following
the standard measurement period. The standard stability period is the Village’s
Health Insurance Benefit Year which is November 1st through October 31st of the
following year. If an employee’s hours are measured over the employee’s initial
measurement period, the applicable “stability period” will be the “initial
stability period”. The initial stability period will be the twelve-month period
beginning on the first day of the second month following expiration of the
employee’s initial measurement period.
            2.   The monthly cost of health insurance for any 1560 Part-time
Employee who enrolls in the Single, Employee Plus One or Employee Family plan
will pay the total premium. The total premium is subject to an annual increase
or decrease based on the Village of Romeoville healthcare experience.
            3.   Coverage begins the first day of the month succeeding your
1560 hours works. The Human Resources Manager shall act as Plan Manager. Any
additional information regarding insurance is available from the Human
Resources Office.
            4.   Employees enrolling more than thirty (30) days after they or
their dependents become eligible for coverage will be required to complete an
Evidence of Eligibility form. If approved, coverage will be effective on the
first of the month after the date that the application for coverage and the
Evidence of Eligibility is approved.
      (3)   Waiver Incentive:
         (a)   Full-time employees who elect to waive health coverage are
eligible for an incentive payment. It will be given bi-weekly to the employee
and is based on coverage the employee is eligible to enroll within.
            1.   Employee Only - $1,000 annually
            2.   Employee Plus Children - $1,250 annually
            3.   Employee Plus Spouse - $1,500 annually
            4.   Family Coverage - $2,000 annually
         (b)   Employees are required to prove eligibility for the waiver and
sign the waiver document annually during open enrollment.
   (B)   Basic Life Insurance: Life insurance is provided for all full-time
employees in the amount equal to the employee’s annual salary. The full cost
for life insurance is paid by the Village. Coverage begins one (1) month from
the date of employment. Employees are also covered for accidental death and
dismemberment. In the event of the employee’s death, the benefit shall be paid
to the designated beneficiary.
   (C)   Dental and Vision Insurance: All regular full-time employees are
entitled to dental and vision insurance. The full cost for individual or family
coverage is paid by the Village. Dental and vision insurance coverage begins
the first day of month preceding the date of hire.
   (D)   Flexible Spending Accounts: Unreimbursed Medical Spending Accounts and
Dependent Care Accounts are available to full-time employees at their expense.
The amounts to be placed in the account will be withheld from paychecks on a
pretax basis with an employee’s prior written authorization.
   (E)   Health Savings Accounts: HSAs are tax advantaged member-owned accounts
that let you save pre-tax dollars for future qualified medical expenses.
Employees can only contribute to an HSA account if enrolled in the High
Deductible Health Insurance Plan. The Village will use a vendor to administer
the Village’s HSA accounts for employees. Your HSA account is portable, which
allows you take the funds in your HSA with you when you leave your employment
with the Village of Romeoville.
   (F)   Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act:
      (1)   Portability Requirements:
         (a)   Portability Requirements: The federal Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., “HIPAA”) is
designed to help employees who change or lose jobs to maintain health insurance
coverage by requiring subsequent employers to accept them into their health
insurance plans. To achieve this, the law: prohibits group health insurance
plans from establishing eligibility rules based on health status; limits the
duration and extent to which group health insurance plans may exclude
preexisting conditions; and requires special enrollment periods for individuals
losing other coverage under certain circumstances. The law also requires group
health insurance plans to track and provide certification of an individual’s
coverage when the individual leaves the plan so that they may gain access to
another plan with reduced or no preexisting condition limitations.
         (b)   As a general rule, HIPAA protects the privacy of an employee’s
health information by prohibiting health care providers and group health
insurers from disclosing such information to anyone, except with the employee’s
specific consent and authorization. The Village may request consent to obtain
health information about an employee in order to determine whether they are fit
to return to duty after an illness or injury, in order to obtain results of
drug or alcohol testing, in order to comply with the requirements of the Family
and Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and for other,
appropriate reasons.
   (G)   Continuation of Coverage Under COBRA: The federal Consolidated Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., “COBRA”) gives employees
and their qualified beneficiaries the opportunity to continue health insurance
coverage under the Village’s health plan when a “qualifying event” would
normally result in the loss of eligibility. Some common qualifying events are
resignation, termination of employment, or death of an employee; a reduction in
an employee’s hours or a leave of absence; an employee’s divorce or legal
separation; and a dependent child no longer meeting eligibility requirements.
Under COBRA, the employee or beneficiary pays the full cost of coverage at the
Village’s group rates. The Village provides each eligible employee with a
written notice describing rights granted under COBRA when the employee becomes
eligible for coverage under the District’s health insurance plan. The notice
contains important information about the employee’s rights and obligations.
   (H)   Continuation of Coverage Under State Law: Under the Illinois Insurance
Code (215 ILCS 5/367;), municipal employees and/or dependents may be eligible
for continuation of group health benefits at the employee’s expense for a
period beginning at the time an employee is removed from payroll due to
retirement, disability or death.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 7: OTHER BENEFITS
§ 7.1 DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
   The Village sponsors three (3) deferred compensation programs. The programs
are limited by Federal tax law. Employees who participate in the programs may
defer a portion of their wages, therefore postponing the tax liability of these
wages, until the funds are withdrawn. Descriptions of the programs, from which
the employees may choose, can be obtained from the Human Resources Manager.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 7.2 LONGEVITY PAY (includes part-time employees and part-time firefighter/
paramedic/EMT).
   In recognition of a employees years of consecutive service to the Village,
annual longevity pay will be awarded. This pay will be awarded on an annual
basis with the first payment issued after the annual fiscal year budget is
approved by the Village Board. Longevity only applies to employee who work over
20 hours a week 52 weeks a year and have a set schedule. Eligible non-union
part-time employees will be entitled to 50% of the longevity pay that a full-
time employee receives annually in May.
Years of Service Longevity Pay
Years of Service Longevity Pay
1-4              $0.00
5-9              $400.00
10-14            $600.00
15-19            $1000.00
20-24            $1500.00
25-29            $1800.00
30 plus          $2000.00
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 7.3 REIMBURSEMENT FOR EDUCATION EXPENSES.
   (A)   Tuition reimbursement is available to any full-time employee who has
worked (12) consecutive months for the Village of Romeoville. Employees will
not be compensated for attending classes during non-working hours, unless
required by employer.
   (B)   The Village of Romeoville only pays for online classes from an
accredited college or university. The Village will pay $4,000.00 a calendar for
undergraduate courses or $5,000.00 a calendar year for graduate courses.
   (C)   Employees who accept tuition reimbursement, commit to regular full-
time service for two years following the completion of the last college class
or certification course. If an employee voluntarily terminates their employment
with the Village of Romeoville or is terminated for cause within that two-year
period, the employee agrees to pay the Village of Romeoville 75% of the amount
of tuition, associated fees, and taxes, if any, that have been paid for all
courses.
   (D)   If an employee does not repay any amounts due as indicated above on or
before their last day of employment, any such amounts will be deducted from the
employee’s final paycheck or from any other amounts payable to the employee
upon or following termination of employment, including compensation time,
personal time, and vacation time. Employees will also acknowledge that any
balance still owed to the Village of Romeoville after the deductions referenced
above must be repaid to the Village of Romeoville.
   (E)   Continued reimbursement is dependent upon ongoing satisfactory job
performance. If performance becomes unsatisfactory, the employee may be denied
future tuition reimbursement.
   (F)   Employees are only eligible for a $6000.00 every calendar year for
tuition reimbursement and conferences if you are being reimbursed for graduate
classes. Employees are eligible for $5000.00 every calendar year for tuition
reimbursement and conferences if you are being reimbursed for undergraduate
classes
   (G)   Employees are not eligible for tuition reimbursement if they are
receiving grants or scholarships for their classes.
   (H)   NOTE: All participating employees are required to sign the Tuition
Reimbursement Acknowledgement Form
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 7.4 PROGRAMS INELIGIBLE FOR REIMBURSEMENT.
   Tuition costs and fees for books or other supplies for educational programs
which will provide the employee the necessary degree or license certification
to receive an automatic salary increase as outlines in section
7.6 and
7.7 will not be eligible for reimbursement.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 7.5 JOB RELATED TRAINING PROGRAMS.
   The Human Resources Manager and the Department Manager shall investigate and
make recommendations for job related training programs. Program development
shall be done jointly by the Human Resources Manager, Department Manager and
Supervisors. Such training may include demonstrations, lectures, seminars or
films which may help to improve the effectiveness of employees in performing
their respective duties.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 7.6 CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   To provide incentive for employees to further their knowledge in
fields of Wastewater Treatment, Water Treatment and Sewer Collection, the
following scale shall be used for employees who have attained licensing:
Grade Position License
Grade Position                                   License
10    Wastewater Treatment Maintenance Worker I   
11    Wastewater Treatment Maintenance Worker I  Class 4
12    Wastewater Treatment Maintenance Worker I  Class 3
13    Wastewater Treatment Maintenance Worker II  
14    Wastewater Treatment Maintenance Worker II Class 4
15    Wastewater Treatment Maintenance Worker II Class 3
14    Wastewater Treatment Technician I          Class 4
15    Wastewater Treatment Technician I          Class 3
16    Wastewater Treatment Technician I          Class 2
17    Wastewater Treatment Technician I          Class 1
18    Wastewater Treatment Technician II         Class 1
 
Water Treatment
 
10 Water System Laborer/Equipment Operator      
12 Water System Laborer/Equipment Operator IV  D
13 Water System Laborer/Equipment Operator Ill C
15 Water System Laborer/Equipment Operator II  B
17 Water System Laborer/Equipment Operator I   A
 
Sewer Collection
 
13 Sewer Collection Operator Class 1
 
   (B)   An employee in good standing for two years or more is eligible for the
step increase for receiving a license for water, wastewater, or sewer
collection when the employee has the Public Works Director’s prior approval to
obtain the license. The Public Works Director will notify the Human Resources
Manager when the step increase should go into effect. Good standing is an
employee who consistently meets or exceeds performance expectations, adheres to
company policies and ethical guidelines, maintains a positive work attitude,
and has not received disciplinary action.
   (C)   The employee must remain in good standing to be eligible to retain
their step increase. It is the employee’s responsibility to keep their license
current and valid. The Public Work Director has the discretion to take away the
step increase based on certain criteria such as job performance, budget
constraints and needs of the specific department. An employee who transfers to
a department where there is no licensing will not be compensated for that
license.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 7.7 FRINGE BENEFITS.
   (A)   The Village must ensure that the tax laws are observed with respect to
taxable fringe benefits, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and any
other applicable federal and state statutes, provided to Village employees.
   (B)   The Village of Romeoville provides several fringe benefits to
employees. Some of the fringe benefits may be provided Village wide, others are
provided to specific employees by their departments. Fringe benefits are
considered a form of pay in addition to salary and wages paid to employees for
the performance of services and must be taxed in a similar manner including,
but not limited to, applicable Federal and State Income Tax, Social Security
Tax and Medicare Tax.
   (C)   Unless expressly excluded or deferred until a later year under the
IRC, all taxable fringe benefits will be included in the employee’s gross
income in the year in which they are received and will be taxed in the manner
prescribed by the IRC.
   (D)   Taxable Fringe Benefits Include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Cash fringe benefits, such as, but not limited to, gift cards, gift
certificates, vehicle allowance and apparel/clothing allowance are generally
always taxable.
      (2)   Uniforms and clothing provided by the Village to employees - Value
of such apparel provided to the employee unless specifically excluded by the
IRC. Departments will be required to provide the appropriate information to the
Finance Department regarding the value of the clothing provided to the
employee.
      (3)   Village provided vehicle - Value of personal use of a Village-
provided vehicle (including courtesy cars) unless specifically excluded by the
IRC. The IRC has a complex set of rules regarding the taxation of employer
provided vehicles. The employee will be required to sign a customized policy
document that pertains to their circumstances, allowed uses of the vehicle and
method of valuation for tax purposes.
      (4)   Club membership and dues - Value of Village - paid club memberships
and related expenditures to the extent that such activities are not documented
to serve a bona-fide Village business purpose. The employee must pay dues and
provide proper documentation of payment to the Finance Department. The employee
will then be reimbursed for the membership fees or dues through payroll.
      (5)   Meals/Meal Reimbursements - Value of meals or meal reimbursements
provided by the Village to the employee unless specifically excluded by the
IRC. Exclusions include meals reimbursed for legitimate business travel that
includes an overnight stay, meals provided on premise for the Village’s
convenience and occasional group meals or picnics. Departments will be required
to provide the appropriate information to the Finance Department regarding the
value of the meals and/or meal reimbursements provided to the employee.
   (E)   Nothing in this policy shall be construed to confer eligibility for
benefits for which an employee is not otherwise eligible under federal/state
law, policy, or practice. The Village reserves the right to amend this policy
at any time without notice to conform to applicable laws and regulations.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 7.8 UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT/NON-UNION SWORN OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Village will continue to provide to the employees a full set of
summer and winter uniforms and other determined and appropriate departmental
apparel.
   (B)   The Village will continue to repair and replace any portion of the
department uniform that is worn or damaged. If payment is received through a
court order or otherwise for the damaged uniform, such payment will be remitted
to the Village.
   (C)   Should any personal items worn, carried or used by an employee become
damaged, ruined or destroyed while in the course of an officer’s duties, the
Village will pay the employee up to one hundred dollars ($100.) for the loss of
the personal property upon receipt of the documentation on the cost of the
newly purchased replaced item. The following items which are mandated by the
Village and are purchased by the member shall be covered one hundred percent
(100%) by the Village in the event of destruction in course of duty: handcuffs,
leather cases, flashlight, shoes. Regarding the loss of glasses and teeth in
particular, the Village will pay the total cost of repair and replacement upon
receipt of documentation of the cost of the repair and/or replacement. A
written explanation will be forwarded to the Chief of Police stating the
conditions and circumstances relative to the said loss of the personal property
item. The Village shall have the right of subrogation against any third person
for all payment made to employees under this section.
   (D)   Upon the expiration date of the certification of body armor, the
Village shall reimburse officers up to $800.00 for new body armor. Employees
that are reimbursed for body armor shall be required to wear same as part of
their duty uniform as specified per Department policy.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 8: EMPLOYEE CONDUCT
§ 8.1 ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   Employees are expected to report to work promptly at the starting time
designated by their supervisor.
   (B)   If an employee is unable to report to work due to illness or other
emergency, the employee must inform their supervisor prior to the assigned
starting time. In the case of extended illness, employees may be required to
report each day of absence, every 30 days for FMLA, or at intervals agreed to
by their supervisor.
   (C)   If an employee does not report for work and fails to properly notify
their supervisor, the employee shall be considered absent without leave. An
employee who is absent without leave is subject to disciplinary action, up to
and including termination.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.2 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   With prior written approval, outside employment in addition to Village
employment is allowed if it does not and will not interfere with the employee’s
performance, cause a conflict of interest, cause an appearance of impropriety
with their Village duties and responsibilities, or reflect adversely upon the
Village. Employees will not be permitted to engage in outside work that
involves the use or sale of information related to Village operations.
   (B)   Full-time Village employees shall inform their Department Manager, in
writing, of any outside employment, the Department Manager shall forward a copy
of all such requests to the Village Manager, the Village Manager shall provide
a written response authorizing or declining such outside employment, and the
written response shall be placed in the employee’s personnel file. In no event
shall outside employment be permitted during the employee’s regularly assigned
working hours for the Village or while on duty. Full-time employee shall not
exceed 24 hours per week at any outside employment, except upon prior written
request to and after prior written approval from the Village Manager, full-time
employees may exceed the 24 hours per week maximum for a limited time.
   (C)   Part-time Village employees shall inform their Department Manager, in
writing, of any outside employment, the Department Manager shall provide a
written response authorizing or declining such outside employment, and the
written response shall be placed in the employee’s personnel file.
   (D)   The Village of Romeoville will be considered your primary position and
if there is a conflict with your outside employment regarding your performance
and availability the Village Manager reserves the right to revoke approval of
any outside employment. The Village Manager reserves the right to revoke
approval of any outside employment when it has been determined to be
detrimental to the best interest of the Village, or otherwise no longer in
conformity with this Section. In such cases, the employees shall be notified
that outside employment is no longer permitted and shall be given fifteen (15)
days to determine if they want to continue working with the Village or with the
outside employer.
   (E)   An employee who is on leave of any kind from the Village may not work
for outside employment in any aspect. Violation of this Section will result in
disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.3 IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   Employees issued identification cards must carry them during working hours.
Upon termination of employment, the employee’s identification card is returned
to their Department Manager or Human Resources.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.4 GIFT BAN.
   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts is prohibited under the State
Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425 et seq.) which was adopted as required by Section 83
of the Act (5 ILCS 425/83).
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.5 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   No employee of the Village shall hold any other office or employment
under the village, county, or federal government, or division thereof, except
such office or employment which does not interfere with the impartial discharge
of duties or result in the wielding of legislative or executive authority over
conditions of employment or over service superiors.
   (B)   Any employee who shall become a candidate for any election office may
be granted a leave of absence without pay by the Village Manager. Such a leave
of absence shall be at the request of the employee and shall not exceed ninety
(90) calendar days.
   (C)   Under the Hatch Political Activity Act, 5 U.S.C. §§ 1501 through 1508,
officers and employees of a local government, such as the Village, whose
principal employment is in connection with an activity financed in whole or in
part by loans or grants made by the United States government are prohibited
from using their influence to affect the result of an election, attempting to
coerce or advise another Village employee to make a political contribution, or
being a candidate for public office in a partisan election. For more
information regarding the Hatch Act, employees should contact the Village
Manager.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.6 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Working for the Village may give an employee access to confidential
information relating to future development, financial data, and other sensitive
material. It is imperative this information be safeguarded. Employment with the
Village assumes an obligation to maintain confidentiality, even after the
employee is no longer employed by the Village.
   (B)   No one is permitted to remove or make copies of any Village records,
reports, or documents without prior approval of the appropriate Department
Manager or the Village Manager. An employee, however, may disclose information
deemed confidential, if so, required by a lawfully issued subpoena or pursuant
to a court order. Any requests for information, including those pursuant to a
subpoena or court order, shall first be forwarded to the appropriate Department
Manager or the Village Manager before disclosure.
   (C)   Because of its seriousness, disclosure of confidential information may
lead to disciplinary action up to and including immediate dismissal.
   (D)   The use of confidential information for personal gain may also lead to
legal action.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.7 SMOKING/VAPING.
   (A)   Smoking and vaping is prohibited within a minimum distance of 15 feet
from entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free Illinois Act,
410 ILCS 82/1, to ensure that tobacco smoke does not enter the area through
entrances, exits, open windows, or other means. The Smoke Free Illinois Act
also includes no smoking in all government owned vehicles and facilities.
   (B)   Under the Smoke Free Illinois Act-Public Act 095-0017
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.8 EMPLOYEE SAFETY.
   (A)   The Village prohibits employees from acting negligently and engaging
in hazardous work practices on Village property and while conducting
organization business.
   (B)   The Village expects and demands that its employees perform their
employment duties with care and attention to the citizen needs, the safety and
welfare of fellow employees, and to the Village’s quality standards and
requirements. Employees who are negligent in performing their job duties or
commit intentional hazardous acts will be subject to disciplinary action, up to
and including immediate discharge Refer to Safety Manual.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.9 VILLAGE LOGO APPAREL.
   Village logo is to be worn by village employees and other authorized
personnel only. Logo apparel may be worn while off-duty, or duty where a
uniform is not required or where approval has been granted by the Department
Manager. Employees who wear these items either at work or off-duty must realize
that they clearly represent the village. When discarding village logo apparel,
it should be destroyed in lieu of being donated or given to non-village
employees or organizations. Employees engaged in inappropriate activities or
behavior while in logo apparel, on-duty or off-duty could be subject to
discipline, up to and including termination. All Village logo apparel should be
returned to the Village upon resignation or termination.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.10 DRESS CODE POLICY.
   (A)   The Village of Romeoville strives to be known as an organization where
employees enjoy their work environment. We would like our offices to be a place
where open communication occurs comfortably across all levels. These goals must
be balanced with the business necessity to present a professional appearance to
the public. As such, we have adopted a Business/Business Casual Dress Policy as
our dress standard for non-management employees, including those times when an
employee meets with a client, vendor, or is representing the Village of
Romeoville at an outside community function.
   (B)   Managers and supervisors are responsible for interpreting and
enforcing dress and grooming standards in their areas of responsibility. This
includes counseling employees whose appearance is inappropriate.
   (C)   Reasonable accommodations will be made for employees sincerely held
religious beliefs and disabilities whenever possible unless the accommodation
would be an undue hardship. Questions or complaints that cannot be handled to
an employee’s satisfaction by their supervisor or Manager should be taken to
the Human Resources Manager.
   (D)   The following guidelines will help to define what acceptable Business
Casual attire is:
      (1)   Choose business casual clothing that communicates professionalism.
      (2)   Keep your workday schedule into account when you are dressing.
Casual Business attire means clothing that allows employees to feel comfortable
at work, yet appropriate for an office environment. Casual business attire
includes but is not limited to trousers, dress slacks, khakis, Dockers, dresses
and skirts no higher than 2 inches above the knee, sweaters, open collar
shirts, polo shirts, blouses, suits, loafers, dress shoes and boots. Clothing
must be properly cleaned and pressed, and clothing should be free of tears,
fraying, holes, and stains.
      (3)   You are not permitted to wear jeans or any denim clothing, shorts,
short pants, bib overalls, halter tops, beachwear, workout attire, over the
shoulder shirts, tank tops, tee shirts, spandex, leggings or other formfitting
pants, dresses, skirts, or distracting, offensive, or revealing clothes. In
addition, you are not to wear athletic shoes, Doc Martin-type sandals, or
thongs unless you have a doctor’s note. These items do not convey a
professional appearance.
      (4)   Clothing should be worn and fit in such a manner that is does not
expose the abdomen, chest, or buttock areas.
      (5)   Clothing should be free of sexually related references, foul
language, or sport logos.
      (6)   Body piercing jewelry is acceptable if it is not distracting.
      (7)   Tattoos must be appropriate and in keeping with a professional
image. If said tattoo is not appropriate the Village of Romeoville has the
right to ask the employee to cover the area where the tattoo is.
   (E)   Jeans will be permitted to be worn on the days that the Village
Manager designates as Jeans Day.
   (F)   In the event of a violation of this policy, a supervisor or Manager
will counsel any employee whose appearance does not meet these standards. If
the appearance is unduly distracting or the clothing is unsafe, the employee
may be sent home to correct the problem. Repeated disregard for this dress and
grooming policy may result in disciplinary action up to and including
termination of employment.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.11 WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY.
   Upon commencement of employment and at least once each year of employment,
every employee shall receive a copy of this policy and a written summary or
complete copy of Section 4.1 of the Public Officer Prohibit Activities Act (50
I LCS 105/4.1 - Retaliation against a whistleblower).
   (A)   Definitions. The following words or phrases shall have the following
definitions and meanings for the purpose of this Policy.
      Improper governmental action means the following: any action by a unit of
local government employee, an appointed member of a board, commission, or
committee, or an elected official of the unit of local government that is
         (a)   undertaken in violation of a federal, State, or unit of local
government law or rule.
         (b)   an abuse of authority.
         (c)   violates the public’s trust or expectation of their conduct.
         (d)   is of substantial and specific danger to the public’s health or
safety; or
         (e)   is a gross waste of public funds.
      The action need not be within the scope of the employee’s, elected
officials, board member’s, commission members, or committee member’s official
duties to be subject to a claim of “improper governmental action”. Improper
governmental action does not include a unit of local government personnel
actions, including, but not limited to employee grievances, complaints,
appointments, promotions, transfers, assignments, reassignments,
reinstatements, restorations, reemployment, performance evaluations, reductions
in pay, dismissals, suspensions, demotions, reprimands, or violations of
collective bargaining agreements, except to the extent that the action amounts
to retaliation.
      Retaliate, retaliation, or retaliatory action means any adverse change in
an employee’s employment status or the terms and conditions of employment that
results from an employee’s protected activity under this Section. “Retaliatory
action” includes, but is not limited to, denial of adequate staff to perform
duties; frequent staff changes; frequent and undesirable office changes;
refusal to assign meaningful work; unsubstantiated letters of reprimand or
unsatisfactory performance evaluations; demotion; reduction in pay; denial of
promotion; transfer or reassignment; suspension or dismissal; or other
disciplinary action made because of an employee’s protected activity under this
Policy.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   It is prohibited for a unit of local government, any agent or
representative of a unit of local government, or another employee to retaliate
against an employee or contractor who:
         (a)   reports an improper governmental action under this Section.
         (b)   cooperates with an investigation by an auditing official related
to a report of improper governmental action; or
         (c)   testifies in a proceeding or prosecution arising out of an
improper governmental action.
      (2)   The Village of Romeoville will not retaliate against a
whistleblower. This includes, but is not limited to, protection from
retaliation in the form of adverse employment action such as termination,
compensation decreases, or poor work assignments and threats of physical harm.
   (C)   Complaints.
      (1)   To be protected under this Policy, the employee shall make a
written complaint of improper governmental action to the employee’s Department
Manager or the Human Resources Manager. An employee who believes they have been
retaliated against in violation of this Policy must submit a written complaint
to the employee’s Department Manager or the Human Resources Manager within 60
days of gaining knowledge of the retaliatory action. If the Human Resources
Manager are the individuals doing the improper governmental action, then a
complaint may be submitted to the appropriate State’s Attorney.
      (2)   The employee must exercise sound judgement to avoid baseless
allegations. An employee who intentionally files a false report of wrongdoing
will be subject to discipline up to and including termination.
   (D)   Processing Complaints.
      (1)   If you submit a complaint under this Policy, it is not your
responsibility to investigate further into the improper government action.
Unless reported to the State’s Attorney, all complaints submitted under this
Policy will be investigated by the Human Resources Manager.
      (2)   Complaints submitted shall be marked by the Department Manager or
the Human Resources Manager with the date the complaint was received. A
Department Manager that receives a complaint shall immediately forward the
complaint to the Human Resources Manager. Insofar as possible, the
confidentiality of the whistleblower will be maintained unless the employee
waives confidentiality in writing. However, the identity may have to be
disclosed to conduct a complete investigation, to comply with the law, and to
provide accused individuals the ability to provide a defense. Reasonable
measures may be taken to protect employees who reasonably believe they may be
subject to bodily harm for reporting improper government action.
      (3)   The Human Resources Manager shall investigate and coordinate with
other necessary employees or officials to investigate and dispose of complaints
of improper governmental action and/or retaliation. Alternatively, if the Human
Resources Manager deems it appropriate, the Human Resources Manager may
transfer the complaint to another auditing official for investigation,
including but not limited to the appropriate State’s Attorney. An investigation
conducted by the Human Resources Manager may include but is not limited to
interviews with the complainant employee, the individuals allegedly involved in
the improper governmental action and/or retaliation, and any witnesses that may
be witnesses to the information contained in the complaint. After the
investigation is complete, the Human Resources Manager shall conclude whether
improper governmental action or retaliation has taken place or whether the
municipality, department, or any supervisory officials have hindered the
investigation of the complaint, and if so, the Human Resources Manager shall
give written notification to the Village Manager and any other individual or
entity the Human Resources Manager deems necessary in the circumstances to take
appropriate employment actions.
      (4)   Employees with any questions regarding this policy should contact
the Human Resources Manager.
   50 ILCS 105/4.1
   105/4.1. Retaliation against a whistleblower
   § 4.1. Retaliation against a whistleblower.
   (a)   It is prohibited for a unit of local government, any agent or
representative of a unit of local government, or another employee to retaliate
against an employee or contractor who:
      (1)   reports an improper governmental action under this Section.
      (2)   cooperates with an investigation by an auditing official related to
a report of improper governmental action; or
      (3)   testifies in a proceeding or prosecution arising out of an improper
governmental action.
   (b)   To invoke the protections of this Section, an employee shall make a
written report of improper governmental action to the appropriate auditing
official. An employee who believes they have been retaliated against in
violation of this Section must submit a written report to the auditing official
within 60 days of gaining knowledge of the retaliatory action. If the auditing
official is the individual doing the improper governmental action, then a
report under this subsection may be submitted to any State’s Attorney.
   (c)   Each auditing official shall establish written processes and
procedures for managing complaints filed under this Section, and each auditing
official shall investigate and dispose of reports of improper governmental
action in accordance with these processes and procedures. If an auditing
official concludes that an improper governmental action has taken place or
concludes that the relevant unit of local government, department, agency, or
supervisory officials have hindered the auditing official’s investigation into
the report, the auditing official shall notify in writing the chief executive
of the unit of local government and any other individual or entity the auditing
official deems necessary in the circumstances.
   (d)   An auditing official may transfer a report of improper governmental
action to another auditing official for investigation if an auditing official
deems it appropriate, including, but not limited to, the appropriate State’s
Attorney.
   (e)   To the extent allowed by law, the identity of an employee reporting
information about an improper governmental action shall be kept confidential
unless the employee waives confidentiality in writing. Auditing officials may
take reasonable measures to protect employees who reasonably believe they may
be subject to bodily harm for reporting improper government action.
   (f)   The following remedies are available to employees subjected to adverse
actions for reporting improper government action:
      (1)   Auditing officials may reinstate, reimburse for lost wages or
expenses incurred, promote, or provide some other form of restitution.
      (2)   In instances where an auditing official determines that restitution
will not suffice, the auditing official may make their investigation findings
available for the purposes of aiding in that employee or the employee’s
attorney’s effort to make the employee whole.
   (g)   A person who engages in prohibited retaliatory action under subsection
(a) is subject to the following penalties: a fine of no less than $500 and no
more than $5,000, suspension without pay, demotion, discharge, civil or
criminal prosecution, or any combination of these penalties, as appropriate.
   (h)   Every employee shall receive a written summary or a complete copy of
this Section upon commencement of employment and at least once each year of
employment. At the same time, the employee shall also receive a copy of the
written processes and procedures for reporting improper governmental actions
from the applicable auditing official.
   (i)   As used in this Section:
   “Auditing official” means any elected, appointed, or hired individual, by
whatever name, in a unit of local government whose duties are similar to, but
not limited to, receiving, registering, and investigating complaints and
information concerning misconduct, inefficiency, and waste within the unit of
local government; investigating the performance of officers, employees,
functions, and programs; and promoting economy, efficiency, effectiveness and
integrity in the administration of the programs and operations of the
municipality. If a unit of local government does not have an “auditing
official”, the “auditing official” shall be a State’s Attorney of the county in
which the unit of local government is located within.
   “Employee” means anyone employed by a unit of local government, whether in a
permanent or temporary position, including full- time, part-time, and
intermittent workers. “Employee” also includes members of appointed boards or
commissions, whether or not paid. “Employee” also includes persons who have
been terminated because of any report or complaint submitted under this
Section.
   “Improper governmental action” means any action by a unit of local
government employee, an appointed member of a board, commission, or committee,
or an elected official of the unit of local government that is undertaken in
violation of a federal, State, or unit of local government law or rule; is an
abuse of authority; violates the public’s trust or expectation of their
conduct; is of substantial and specific danger to the public’s health or
safety; or is a gross waste of public funds. The action need not be within the
scope of the employee’s, elected officials, board member’s, commission members,
or committee member’s official duties to be subject to a claim of “improper
governmental action”. “Improper governmental action” does not include a unit of
local government personnel actions, including, but not limited to employee
grievances, complaints, appointments, promotions, transfers, assignments,
reassignments, reinstatements, restorations, reemployment, performance
evaluations, reductions in pay, dismissals, suspensions, demotions, reprimands,
or violations of collective bargaining agreements, except to the extent that
the action amounts to retaliation.
   “Retaliate”, “retaliation”, or “retaliatory action” means any adverse change
in an employee’s employment status or the terms and conditions of employment
that results from an employee’s protected activity under this Section.
“Retaliatory action” includes, but is not limited to, denial of adequate staff
to perform duties; frequent staff changes; frequent and undesirable office
changes; refusal to assign meaningful work; unsubstantiated letters of
reprimand or unsatisfactory performance evaluations; demotion; reduction in
pay; denial of promotion; transfer or reassignment; suspension or dismissal; or
other disciplinary action made because of an employee’s protected activity
under this Section.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.12 CODE OF CONDUCT POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the Village of Romeoville to conduct its business
activities and transactions with the highest level of integrity and ethical
standards and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Obeying the
law and following Village policies both in letter and in spirit is a
substantial part of our foundation and core values. All employees must conduct
themselves accordingly and seek to avoid even the appearance of improper
behavior.
   (B)   Furthermore, all employees of the Village of Romeoville are to treat
their co-workers as well as residents, vendors and visitors with the utmost
respect and dignity. Certain actions are inappropriate in the work setting.
Listed below are some of the behaviors that are not appropriate. This is by no
means an all-inclusive list. This list is illustrative rather than exhaustive
and management reserves the right to decide upon appropriate disciplinary
action for breaches of conduct. Violation of these standards will result in
disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.
      (1)   Activities prohibited by State and Federal statutes or Village
Ordinances.
      (2)   Failure to meet prescribed standards of work.
      (3)   Absenteeism or tardiness.
      (4)   Threatening, intimidating, or coercing another employee or the
public.
      (5)   Willful destruction or damage to Village property or the property
of a fellow employee.
      (6)   Dishonesty, including falsification of Village records.
      (7)   Insubordination or refusal to follow a direct lawful order.
      (8)   Sleeping during work hours or leaving work without permission.
      (9)   Theft or unauthorized possession of Village property, the property
of a fellow employee or resident’s property.
      (10)   Acceptance of any consideration from a third party intended to
inappropriately influence the employee in the performance of their duties.
      (11)   Use of official position for personal advantage.
      (12)   Intoxication during working hours, including bringing intoxicating
beverages, marijuana or other illegal substances on Village property; the
consuming of the same on Village property or any other violation of the
Village’s Drug & Alcohol Use/Abuse Policy.
      (13)   Violation of Village safety rules.
      (14)   Discussion of confidential Village business and/or information
with unauthorized persons.
      (15)   Misuse or illegal use of Village telephones, computer privileges
or equipment.
      (16)   Refusal to cooperate in an officially sanctioned investigation.
      (17)   Violation of the Village’s policies and procedures set forth in
this Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual, including the Harassment,
Discrimination, Retaliation Prevention Policy.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 8.13 FRAUD PREVENTION POLICY.
   (A)   The Village is committed to protecting its revenue, property,
proprietary information, and other assets. The Village will not tolerate any
misuses or misappropriations of those assets. The Fraud Prevention Policy is
established to provide guidance to employees when misuses or misappropriation
of Village assets is suspected and to facilitate the development of protocols
and practices which will aid in the detection and prevention of fraud.
   (B)   The policy applies to any fraud perpetrated by employee, officials, as
well as consultants, vendors, contractors, outside agencies and/or any other
parties with a business relationship with the Village. Any investigation
commenced pursuant to this policy shall be undertaken without regard to a
person’s length of service, position, or title, or relationship to the Village.
   (C)   The term fraud includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Any dishonest or fraudulent act.
      (2)   Forgery or alteration of any document or account belonging to the
Village.
      (3)   Forgery or alteration of a check, bank draft, or any other
financial document.
      (4)   Unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary
information.
      (5)   Unauthorized disclosure of securities activities of the Village.
      (6)   Misappropriation of funds, securities, supplies and other assets.
      (7)   Accepting or seeking anything of substantial value from
contractors, vendors or persons providing services/materials to the Village.
      (8)   Authorizing or receiving payment for goods not received or services
not performed.
      (9)   Impropriety in the handling or reporting of money or financial
transactions.
      (10)   Intentional violation of the Village’s purchasing policy.
      (11)   Profiteering because of inside knowledge of Village activities.
      (12)   Theft, destruction, removal or fraudulent use of Village records
and intellectual property.
      (13)   Actions related to concealing or perpetuating abovementioned
activities.
   (D)   If there are any questions as to whether an act constitutes fraud,
please contact Human Resources.
   (E)   All employees of the Village, regardless of position have a
responsibility in regards to Village funds and other assets. Village employees
are responsible for safeguarding village resources and ensuring that those
resources are used only for authorized purposes in accordance with Village
policies and applicable state and federal laws.
      (1)   When fraud is suspected, observed, or otherwise made known to an
employee, the employee must immediately report the activity to their
supervisor.
      (2)   If the employee has reason to believe their supervisor may be
involved in fraudulent activity, the employee is obligated to report the
activity to the next higher level of management or to Human Resources or the
Village Manager.
      (3)   The reporting employee shall refrain from discussing the matter
with any other person within the Village unless directed to do so by Human
Resources Manager.
      (4)   All employees shall cooperate fully with any investigation
performed by the Village, oversight agencies and/or law enforcement officials.
   (F)   Any Village employee reporting suspected, observed, or otherwise known
fraudulent activity will be held harmless and not subject to retaliation.
   (G)   All management personnel are responsible for detecting and preventing
fraudulent activities in their respective work areas. All management personnel
will be familiar with the types of activities that constitutes fraud and be
alert for any indication that improper or dishonest activity is or was in
existence in their department.
      (1)   If a supervisor suspects fraud or has received a report of fraud
from an employee, they must contact the department Manager immediately.
      (2)   When a Department Manager is informed by a supervisor that fraud is
suspected, the Department Manager must immediately contact Human Resources
Manager who will consult with the Village Manager and legal counsel.
      (3)   Upon investigation, if the Village determines that fraud exists,
the Village shall take immediate action to halt the fraudulent activity. If
criminal activity has occurred, the Village shall report the activity to the
appropriate agencies and/or law enforcement officials.
      (4)   All management personnel shall cooperate fully with any
investigation performed by the Village, appropriate agencies and/or law
enforcement officials.
      (5)   Following all incidents of fraud, or at least on an annual basis,
management personnel shall conduct a review of internal controls, policies and
procedures for the prevention and detection of fraud and implement new and/or
modify controls when necessary.
   (H)   All employees in a fraud investigation shall treat all information
received confidentially. A person reporting suspected fraud may remain
anonymous except as otherwise required by law.
   (I)   Investigation results will not be disclosed or discussed with anyone
other than those who have a legitimate need to know. Any employee contacted by
the media with respect to a fraud investigation shall refer the media person to
the Village Manager.
   (J)   Employees who have committed fraud will be subject to disciplinary
action up to and including termination. Any disciplinary action taken by the
Village because of its investigation shall be in accordance with terms and
conditions of applicable collective bargaining agreements and the employee
handbook. In all cases, the Village reserves the right to refer the matter to
appropriate agencies and/or law enforcement officials for independent review,
investigation and/or prosecution. The Village’s internal investigation and
disciplinary process shall be conducted independently from any external review
performed.
   (K)   Human Resources is responsible for the administration, revision,
interpretation, and application of this policy. The policy will be reviewed
annually and revised as needed.
   (L)   In addition to this policy, the Village shall comply with all
applicable state and federal laws addressing fraud prevention.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 9: TECHNOLOGY
*** INTRODUCTION ***
   This section outlines the policy to be used in administering and
coordinating all technology resources for the Village of Romeoville (Henceforth
referred to as Village). It is the policy of the Village, wherever economically
possible, to establish and maintain state of the art information technology,
and to provide access to said technology for furthering the goals and the
objectives of the Village. The ability of the Village to operate effectively is
reliant upon the proper operation of its computers and the security and
integrity of its data. It is critical that employees understand how to use the
Village’s technology resources within the scope of their job duties, Village
policies, and the law. This policy documents the users’ responsibility to
safeguard computer and telecommunications equipment and information from
accidental or deliberate unauthorized access, tampering, snooping,
distribution, or destruction. It sets forth what is, and is not, appropriate
use of Village technology resources. The failure of employees to comply with
the provisions outlined in this policy may result in corrective or disciplinary
action up to and including termination.
   The purpose of this policy is to ensure responsible and acceptable use of
Village’s technology resources. These resources and the data created, received,
transmitted, or stored therein must be protected by unauthorized disclosure,
modification, use, or destruction. Adherence to the policy will protect the
Village and its employees from liability and business interruptions due to
inappropriate use of Village resources and breaches of security.
   In support of the Village mission of public service, the Information
Technology department provides computing, networking, and information
technology resources to the Village Board of Trustees, community of department
employees, supervisors, and staff.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.1 GLOSSARY OF TERMS.
   CLOUD - Refers to distributed computing over a network that generally
provides a shared pool of resources that is rapidly configurable and widely
accessible. A cloud may be public, private, community, or a hybrid of these.
   COMPUTER INFORMATION - Data, software, files, and any other information
stored on Village computers and systems.
   COMPUTER RESOURCE - A physical or virtual component of limited availability
within a computer system. Village computer resources include devices, network
equipment, communications equipment, and data as well as similar resources that
are part of hosted systems or SaaS (Software as a Service) systems in use by
the Village.
   ENCRYPTION - The process of turning plain text into cipher text by applying
an algorithm that rearranges or changes its input into something
unrecognizable.
   FIREWALL - A specifically configured system that serves as a secure gateway
between an outside network (e.g., the Internet), and the organization’s
internal networks.
   HACKER - Slang for an individual intensely absorbed with and/or extremely
knowledgeable about computer hardware and software. Also used to describe those
who break into and corrupt computer systems. (Hacker is used here to describe
those who break into and corrupt computer systems.)
   INSTANT MESSAGING - A method of linking people together electronically for
the purpose of real-time communication.
   INTERNET - A group of networks connected via routers; a vast computer
network linking smaller computer networks worldwide.
   INTRANET - A computer network with restricted access, as within a company.
   LOCAL AREA NETWORK - A set of connections between computers that provides
the basis for electrical transmissions of information, generally within a small
geographical location lo serve a single organization.
   LOCK - To lock your workstation, use CTL-ALT-DEL.
   MALWARE - Software of malicious intent/impact such as viruses, worms, and
spyware.
   MODEM - Short for modulator-demodulator. A hardware device that allows two
computers to communicate over ordinary telephone lines.
   PHISHING - The criminally fraudulent process of attempting to acquire
sensitive information such as usernames, passwords, and credit card details by
masquerading as a trustworthy entity in an electronic communication.
   PROFILE (AKA USER PROFILE or ROAMING PROFILE) - The profile is a special set
of information that defines and maintains program and Windows settings specific
to a user or, in some cases, a group of users. The word “Roaming” implies that
the profile will be the same and accessible from multiple computers, i.e., it
‘roams’ with the user.
   RECORD - Information that is created, received, and maintained as evidence
by an organization or person in the transaction of business or in the pursuance
of legal obligations, regardless of media. A record can also be thought of as
information that holds operational, legal, fiscal, financial, vital, or
historic value. Media can include books, documents, papers, letters, emails,
faxes, maps, photographs, sound or video recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape,
electronic media, images, or other information regardless of physical form or
characteristics.
   REMOVABLE DEVICE - Device or media that is readable and/or writeable by the
end user and can be moved from computer to computer without modifications to
the computer. This includes flash memory devices such as thumb drives, cameras,
MP3 players and PDAs; removable hard drives (including hard drive-based MP3
players); and any commercial music and software disks not provided by the
Village of Romeoville.
   SENSITIVE INFORMATION - Information which, if made available to unauthorized
persons, may adversely affect the Village of Romeoville, its programs, or
participants served by its programs. Examples include but are not limited to
personal identifiers and financial information.
   SERVER - A computer or device that administers network functions and
applications.
   SPAM - Many copies of the same unsolicited message sent to newsgroups or via
email intended to force the message on people who would not otherwise choose to
receive it.
   TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES - All Village computers (desktop and portable
computers, servers, networks, printers, software, storage media), email system,
internet access and use, fax machines, telephones, cellular phones, pagers,
two-way radios, personal handheld devices, Global Positioning System (GPS)
devices, flash drives, modems, scanners, copy machines, other electronic and
communication devices, and new or emerging technologies.
   TROJAN HORSE - A program that masquerades as something it is not, usually
for the purpose of breaking into an account or exceeding commands with another
user’s privileges.
   VIRUS - A set of instructions that can reside in software and can be used to
destroy other files or perform other tasks with another user’s privileges.
   WORM - A program that propagates by replicating itself on each host in a
network with the purpose of breaking into systems.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.2 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   For purposes of this document, the term ‘computer user’ or ‘user’
is meant to include all full-time and part-time Village employees, elected
officials, temporary employees, volunteers, and contractors. All forms of
technology resources provided for computer users are property of the Village,
unless otherwise specified. Computer users are responsible for the appropriate
use of Village technology resources and for taking reasonable precautions to
secure the information and equipment entrusted to them. This policy also
applies to other technology resources that may or may not create or contain
computer records. Examples of these resources include fax machines, telephones,
mobile devices, pagers, two-way radios, personal devices, GPS (Global
Positioning System) devices, flash drives, cloud storage, data stored in hosted
databases, modems, scanners, copy machines, and other communication devices.
The policy also applies to new or emerging technologies and those not
specifically named. This policy covers all information created, entered,
received, stored, or transmitted by such technology resources, including files,
programs, emails, text messages, internet logs, and all other data. Users
specifically consent to the access and disclosure of such information stored by
a third-party electronic communication service or remote computing service.
      (2)   Employees are responsible for reporting inappropriate use of the
Village’s technology resources and breaches of computer security and for
assisting in resolving such matters. Users are responsible for adhering to
Village policies and practices to ensure Village computers are used in
accordance with policy. They are also responsible for ensuring that reasonable
measures are taken to prevent loss or damage of computer information and
equipment.
   (B)   Computer Access. Access to Village computers, as well as the level of
access, must be authorized by each computer user’s supervisor. Computers and
networks can provide access to resources on and off site, as well as the
ability to communicate with other users worldwide. Such access is a privilege
and requires that individual users act responsibility. Employees must respect
the rights of other users, respect the integrity of the systems and related
physical resources, and observe all existing and future relevant laws,
regulations, and contractual obligations concerning computers and networks.
Department Managers need to request access approval from the IT Department
before allowing access for any external persons to carry out work, on behalf of
the Village. Access may be revoked in whole or in part any time at the
discretion of an employee’s or external person’s Department Manager.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.3 PRIVACY.
   (A)   Technology resources are provided for employee use for business
purposes and remain the property of the Village. Users have no expectation of
privacy in the use of Village technology resources, including the creation,
entry, receipt, storage, or transmission of data. All data generated by,
created, entered, received, stored, or transmitted via the Village’s technology
resources is Village property, and the Village may, without prior notice,
access, search, monitor, inspect, review, or disclose all such data and use of
technology resources. Additionally, any use of your personal cell phone,
tablet, etc. like text messages concerning Village business is FOIA-able.
   (B)   There are now cameras located throughout village buildings and parking
lots to ensure employee safety and to document any incidents that may occur
with residents, vendors, and or other visitors at our facilities and other
village owned properties.
   (C)   Global Positioning System (GPS) devices are used for reporting items
such as location, condition, or current operational state of Village assets.
Some Village equipment, including, but not limited to, cell phones, mobile
devices, computers, and vehicles may have GPS devices attached or built in and
enabled for management and reporting purposes. The Village may monitor such
devices at any time for any lawful purpose. Any alteration to disable the
device or prevent it from functioning properly is prohibited and will be
investigated and fully prosecuted of the law.
   (D)   Users specifically consent to the access by and disclosure to the
Village of information created, entered, transmitted, or received via the
Village’s technology resources that are stored by a third-party electronic
communication service or remote computing service and have no expectation of
privacy in such information.
   (E)   In addition, the information generated by, created, entered, received,
stored or transmitted via the Village’s technology resources may constitute a
public record subject to disclosure pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act,
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq., subpoenas, and other lawful requests for information.
Employees may have rights of access to information about themselves contained
in computer files, as specified in state, federal or international laws. Files
may be subject to search under court order. In addition, technology staff
reserves the right to access any Village equipment to protect the integrity of
computer systems or network. Except for Police Department records, the FOIA
Officer assigned to each department will process such requests for information.
Any employee who receives a request by a third-party to disclose information
should direct the request to their respective FOIA Officer. Requests for Police
records are processed by and should be directed to the Police Records Manager.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.4 GUIDELINES FOR USE.
   (A)   Harassment, Threats, and Discrimination
      (1)   Users are prohibited from using the Village’s technology resources
in any way that violates the Village’s policies. Users should be aware that
even communications sent via a personal email account from the Village’s
technology resources are subject to the limitation on privacy under this policy
and are subject to compliance with Village policies.
      (2)   The scope of prohibited use extends to files, data, pictures,
games, jokes, etc., that are received by a user, even if unsolicited. Such
information should be immediately deleted and/or brought to the attention of a
supervisor.
   (B)   Unauthorized Access
      (1)   Unauthorized access of the Village’s technology resources is
prohibited. Unauthorized access of third-party computers or resources using the
Village’s technology resources is prohibited. Attempting to access the
Village’s technology resources without specific authorization is prohibited.
Any form of tampering to gain access to computers is a violation of Village
policy and carries serious consequences. You may only access information on the
Village’s technology resources that you are authorized to access and have a
business reason to access. If you inadvertently identify a new way to access
information to which you are not authorized, report it to the IT Department
immediately. To help prevent security breaches, computer users are required to
log off or lock their computers at the end of the day and when not in use for
more than ten (10) minutes. In addition, users must take other reasonable
precautions to prevent unauthorized access to the Village’s technology
resources.
      (2)   Department Directors have primary responsibility for the creation
and maintenance of application data. These system owners shall be responsible
for defining the security and integrity requirements of their data. They are
primarily responsible for authorizing data access and ensuring adequate
security, accountability, and control is employed to protect the data.
      (3)   The Village employees will not attempt to breach computer or
network security for which they do not have access. This includes but is not
limited to network appliances, computer workstations, servers, and/or secure
electronic folders and files. Any unauthorized changes made to any network
device are prohibited. Any breaches of network security are to be reported to
the IT Department.
   (C)   Computer Sabotage. Destruction, theft, alteration, or any other form
of sabotage of Village computers, telephones, network or telecommunications
cabling, programs, files, or data is prohibited and will be investigated and
fully prosecuted of the law.
   (D)   Unauthorized Changes to the Village’s Technology Resources
      (1)   Unauthorized installation of software and making changes to
computer hardware, software, system configuration, and the like are prohibited.
The IT Department must authorize the installation of any software, even if we
are licensed. The Village’s computer systems have been designed and documented
to prevent loss of data and provide an audit trail for correcting problems.
Installation of some programs can change the computer’s system configuration
and may be incompatible with other systems on the device.
      (2)   If you need to download software or make any changes to Village
computers or technology resources in the performance of your duties, contact
the IT Department for approval and/or assistance.
   (E)   Viruses, Worms, and Trojan horses.
      (1)   It is critical that users make certain that data loaded on the
Village’s technology resources is free of viruses. Data that has been exposed
to any computer other than a Village computer or resource must be scanned using
the virus scanning software present on all Village PCs before installation.
Viruses can result in significant damage and lost productivity. Never open an
attachment unless you know the sender and are expecting the attachment. If you
are uncertain whether data needs to be scanned before installation, call the IT
Department.
      (2)   Use of virus, worm, or Trojan horse programs is prohibited. If you
identify a virus, worm, or Trojan horse, or what you suspect to be one, do not
try to fix the problem. Make notes as to what you observed and contact the IT
Department.
      (3)   If you receive a virus warning, call the IT Department immediately.
Do not forward it to other computer users within the Village. If the IT
Department determines that the warning is valid, they will take the appropriate
steps to notify other users.
   (F)   Termination of Employment
      (1)   All information on Village resources is considered Village
property. Deleting, altering, copying, or sharing confidential, proprietary, or
any other information upon termination requires authorization from your
Department Manager. The technology equipment you have been entrusted with must
be returned with your password, identification code, and any other appropriate
information necessary for the Village to continue using the computer and
information uninterrupted.
      (2)   The following activity is prohibited upon termination and will be
fully prosecuted of the law:
         (a)   Accessing Village resources
         (b)   Providing third parties, or anyone else, access to Village
resources
         (c)   Taking computer files, data, programs, or computer equipment
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.5 ADMINISTRATION OF TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES.
   (A)   Computer systems
      (1)   Department Managers (or designated person) that has the need for
any external persons or organizations to carry out work, on behalf of the
Village, that require access to any equipment, computers, network, or
technology services need to request approval from the IT department before such
work is carried out.
      (2)   Department Managers have the authority to inspect the contents of
any hardware, software, document(s) or file(s) of their subordinates in the
normal course of their supervisory responsibilities.
      (3)   Village technology employees or approved contractors shall extract
information, files or documents when requested by authorized supervisory
personnel. Reasons for review include but are not limited to system, hardware,
and software problems; general system failure; a legal proceeding involving the
Village; suspicion of a crime; violation of this policy; and a need to perform
work or provide a service when the employee is unavailable.
      (4)   All Users are to use their own network, e-mail, and application
accounts unless other arrangements have been made with the IT Manager or
respective Department Manager.
   (B)   Data/File Storage
      (1)   File storage could vary depending on your job function and
interactions with other departments or external organizations. Please note that
copyright material is not to be stored in any data areas. These include but are
not limited to .exe (programs files), MP3 files, video files, and image files
that are licensed. Any requests for storing such data should be made to the IT
Manager.
      (2)   Reproduction or distribution of copyrighted works, including, but
not limited to, images, videos, text, configuration, settings, or software,
without permission of the owner is an infringement of U.S. Copyright Law, see
e.g., 17 U.S.C. §§ 101 et seq., and is subject to civil damages and criminal
penalties including fines and imprisonment.
   (C)   File Retention. Just as with any other government record, electronic
records are retained or disposed of in accordance with the Village’s overall
record retention policies. See the Village records management and email
retention policies or contact your Department Managers if you have questions
about what should be retained.
   (D)   Back-up
      (1)   Backing up files is essential to productivity and safeguarding data
against unwanted intrusions. Most Village computers are attached to the
network. If data is being properly stored on the network, backup is
automatically handled by the IT Department. A computer user’s home drive is on
the network. It is essential to save data to your home drive on the Village
network. To ensure proper backup, do not save data to the computer hard drive,
a flash drive, or memory stick. Copies or Back-up files should not be stored on
personal computers or taken home.
      (2)   If your computer is not attached to the network, you must contact
the IT Department to develop an appropriate backup protocol to preserve and
protect Village information and records.
   (E)   File Recovery. Computer files and email are rarely erased from the
system simply by hitting the delete key. Rather, they are stored in a random
place on the computer. These files can sometimes be recovered by running a file
recovery program. The IT Department will coordinate any necessary file recovery
or restoration of backup data. Deleted files may also be recoverable from
backup and, as such, subject to FOIA or subpoena.
   (F)   Disposal of Technology Equipment. When a user department no longer has
use for a hardware or software component of an information technology resource,
the component should be transferred to the IT Department. The IT Department
will retain a repository of computer system components and will supply user
departments with available components as needed to avoid unnecessary purchases.
The IT Department will also appropriately dispose of obsolete technology
resources or software and remove it from the inventory.
   (G)   Copyright Infringement
      (1)   The Village does not own most of the computer software that it
utilizes, but rather licenses the right to use software. Accordingly, Village
owned, or licensed software may only be reproduced or modified by authorized IT
personnel in accordance with the terms of the software licensing agreements.
Unauthorized modifying, copying, redistributing, and republishing of
copyrighted or proprietary material are strictly prohibited. Copyright laws
apply to the Internet as well. Copyright infringement is serious business, and
the Village strictly prohibits any such activity. If you have questions about
copyright infringement, discuss it with the IT Department immediately.
      (2)   Copies of shareware or “free” programs must be registered with the
IT Department. Shareware and free software often have licensing and use
restrictions and should not be copied or forwarded to others. It is not unusual
for “free” software to contain a virus. As such, it is important that all new
software is purchased through and installed by the IT Department. Your
department director and the IT Department must approve all requests for
application programs.
   (H)   Proprietary Information. Village data, databases, programs, and other
proprietary information are Village property and can only be used for
authorized Village business. Use of Village property for personal gain or
benefit is prohibited. Sharing Village proprietary information with
unauthorized Village personnel or third parties is prohibited. Upon termination
of employment, employees do not have the right to any Village documents,
therefore employees shall not copy or email Village documents for personal use
unless they have submitted a request in writing to their Department Manager or
Village Manager for approval.
   (I)   Data Licensing Agreement. When dissemination of Village data,
databases, and programs occurs, a data licensing agreement needs to be
established between the Village and any third party. Information will be
licensed for use on a project basis with a specified time span. The IT
Department will facilitate the licenses and distribute the requested
information.
   (J)   Purchases of Computer Software and Equipment
      (1)   All purchases of computer software and equipment, including
tablets, are prohibited without approval from your department director. All
computer software and equipment purchases must be made through the IT
Department. Working with the requesting department, the IT Department will
ensure that purchases are the most appropriate solution for the application,
meet pre-established quality requirements, and are compatible with other
Village computer software and equipment. Donated or confiscated equipment must
be placed into service by the IT Department subject to current quality and
compatibility guidelines.
      (2)   The IT Department is responsible for maintaining appropriate
procedures for tracking computer assets and licenses and maintaining proper
security for all computer-related resources.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.6 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   All computer information is considered restricted unless you have received
permission to use it. Accessing or attempting to access confidential data is
strictly prohibited. Confidential information should only be used for its
intended purpose. Using confidential information for anything other than its
intended use is prohibited without prior approval from your department
director.
   (A)   Handling Confidential Information. Any document that contains unique
personal identifiers, such as social security numbers, bank account numbers,
passwords, etc., must be considered CONFIDENTIAL. Store all confidential and
sensitive data on the network drives only. Confidential information may not be
stored on portable devices or media without the express consent of your
department director. The network drives are more secure than removable media or
hard drives on individual workstations or laptops. The following are some
activities that are prohibited under normal circumstances when dealing with
confidential information:
      (1)   Leaving your computer unattended and logged on except in the case
of Public Safety vehicles where access to the vehicle is limited by other
security measures.
      (2)   Leaving mobile devices unlocked.
      (3)   Sending confidential information over the Internet, Intranet, dial-
up modem lines, or other unsecured communication lines without approval from
your department director. Remember, email is an unsecure form of data transfer.
Do not send any confidential or sensitive data in an email either in the body
or as an attachment.
      (4)   Storing confidential or sensitive data on a workstation or mobile
device. Workstations and mobile devices are easily stolen. If stolen, all data
contained therein is also stolen.
      (5)   Leaving printed reports containing confidential data in an
unsecured location (for example, lying on your desk, in a recycle bin, or in
your in/out box). When you are not working with such reports, they must be kept
in a locked location.
      (6)   Printing to a printer in an unsecured area where documents may be
read by others. If you observe a document at a shared printer or any other
location, do not read it without permission.
   (B)   Encryption. Encryption and encryption utilities are prohibited without
the approval of your department director. If you need to send confidential or
proprietary information over the Internet or other public communication lines
or if you need to transport this information on a laptop, flash drive, or other
portable storage device you must work with the IT Department on the specific
mechanism/software used for the encryption and obtain approval from your
department director prior to using.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.7 SECURITY.
   (A)   Authentication to Systems
      (1)   Authentication is the process that allows authorized users to
provide and prove their identity to access Village systems. The Village
maintains several types of systems, and most systems require some form of
authentication for access. Required authentication can be as simple as
accessing a system from an approved workstation or as complicated as requiring
possession of an authentication device. The requirements for the type of
authentication assigned to a system or user is based on the sensitivity of the
system. Systems with very sensitive information or systems that provide the
ability to change or access information from uncontrolled (mobile) locations
will require more stringent authentication.
      (2)   There are three possible forms or factors of authentication:
         (a)   Something you know (username and password or PIN number)
         (b)   Something you have (a special key, card, or token)
         (c)   Something you are (biometrics such as fingerprints, voice
recognition, etc.)
      (3)   The basic form of authentication is single factor and is generally
based on something you know. This information is equivalent to a key and, in
most cases, will identify an individual person. Extended authentication is
multi-factor, meaning that something you know will be combined with something
you have. If multifactor authentication is required, each user will be issued a
special device called a key (usually a Village ID or token) that will be
combined with something they know (a PIN or password) to provide
authentication. In the future, the Village may choose to employ the third
factor, such as fingerprints.
      (4)   If you have been issued a token or Village ID access device, you
should treat this as any other key. You are responsible for keeping your PIN
private and for keeping the key itself secure. If the key is ever lost or
compromised, you must report it to the IT Department immediately. If you lost
your Village ID or token, you will be responsible for the cost of replacement.
      (5)   Unless clearly distinguished as shared, all authentication methods
are unique and private to an individual user and should never be shared with
other users!
      (6)   Your computer must be locked if it is logged on and unattended for
more than 10 minutes. Do not log on to your system if someone can see you
keying in your password. Report any irregularities flagged by the password
access program (last login time and date, number of attempts to login, etc.) to
your supervisor or to the IT Department.
   (B)   Network Access Restrictions
      (1)   The Village provides network and Internet access to computer users
for Village business related activities. As part of the network system, the
Village provides content filtering, reporting, and protection from external
network threats. It is absolutely forbidden under this policy to attempt to
circumvent any element of the Village’s default Internet configuration. This
includes, but is not limited to, manually connecting Village equipment to other
networks, or connecting non-Village equipment to the Village network. This
applies to both wired and wireless connections. There may be specific
exclusions for laptops that have been appropriately configured to be protected
on external networks, but no attempt should be made to connect to other
networks without express approval from Information Systems.
      (2)   It is also prohibited under this policy to make or attempt to make
any Village resource accessible from the Internet without the approval of IT.
Internet-based desktop sharing systems are not allowed unless installed and
configured by the IT Department.
   (C)   Password Selection and Protection
      (1)   Passwords are an important part of security and should be selected
carefully and protected from use by anyone other than the owner. Employees may
not share their passwords with anyone other than an IT Department employee. Do
not write it down where someone can easily find it, do not send it over the
Internet, Intranet, email, dial-up modem, or any other communication line. Do
not log into a computer and allow someone else to use it.
      (2)   If you have a question about password selection or safekeeping,
please see your supervisor or someone from the IT Department.
   (D)   Hackers
      (1)   Hackers frequently penetrate computer systems by calling
unsuspecting employees representing themselves as new employees, supervisors,
or other trusted individuals. Through a variety of probing questions, they
obtain information necessary for their invasive programs to do their work.
      (2)   Never give any information about computer systems out over the
telephone or in any other way to anyone but authorized IT personnel. If someone
requests such information, get their name, and phone number, and tell them you
will get right back to them. Report the incident immediately to the Information
Systems help desk. Without your help, the Village has little chance of
protecting the Village’s computer systems.
      (3)   Using hacker programs and trying to access computer systems using
hacker techniques is prohibited. Trying to hack into third party computer
systems using Village computers is prohibited and will be reported to the
appropriate authorities. If you are caught hacking, it is a serious offense. If
you identify vulnerability in the Village’s computer security system, report it
to the IT Department immediately.
   (E)   Phishing
      (1)   Phishing is a term used to describe the illegal practice of
obtaining personal information from you by pretending to be a legitimate
organization. This is most done by sending emails, pop-up messages, or instant
messages with links to sites that appear to be from a legitimate organization.
These links will direct you to enter personal information such as passwords,
social security numbers, bank account numbers, credit card numbers, etc. These
sites often appear official and may include graphics from the legitimate
organization’s site. Legitimate organizations never request information in this
manner. Since business is increasingly done via the Internet, it is very
important to be continually vigilant by using safe techniques to retrieve and
update information.
      (2)   The easiest way to avoid becoming a victim of a phishing attack is
to never click on links contained in these messages. Instead, open another
browser session and manually navigate to the site of interest – do not cut and
paste addresses from the message. Also verify that the “lock” icon displays in
your browser indicating that the connection is secure. If you have any
concerns, use the phone and call a phone number you know to be legitimate to
speak to someone at the company. Do not rely on phone numbers contained in the
message.
      (3)   If you believe you unknowingly supplied sensitive information to an
illegitimate site, contact your supervisor immediately.
   (F)   Locks. Store external storage devices such as floppy disks, CDs, DVDs,
flash drives, USB keys, printed reports, and other sensitive items in a locked
drawer. You should lock your computer or log off when it is not in use for more
than ten (10) minutes. If you have been issued a key or token, you should log
off, remove it, and take it with you if you will be away from your workstation.
There are practical exceptions to this, such as some types of in-vehicle use.
Lock the door to your office or work area when leaving for the night if you
have confidential information that could be easily accessed.
   (G)   Removable Devices
      (1)   Removable devices are a well-known source of malware infections and
have been directly tied to the loss of sensitive information in many
organizations. To minimize the risk of loss or exposure of sensitive
information maintained by Village of Romeoville and to reduce the risk of
acquiring malware infections on the Village network, users may not use any
removable devices on Village workstations or that have not been provided by our
IT Department. Outside or personal removable devices are prohibited. For users
with the proper permission, the following rules apply:
         (a)   Staff may only use removable devices purchased by the Village of
Romeoville or from a trusted third party that have been issued by the IT
Department.
         (b)   Village of Romeoville removable devices may not be connected to
or used in computers that are not owned or leased by the Village of Romeoville
without explicit permission from the employee’s Department Director. Devices
must be scanned upon return using the virus scanning software present on all
PCs to help ensure that the removable device does not introduce malware into
the Village’s network.
         (c)   Sensitive information should be stored on removable devices only
when required in the performance of the user’s assigned duties and in
accordance with the confidentiality section of this policy.
         (d)   All Village-owned removable devices need to be always accounted
for.
      (2)   If you have a unique situation that requires the use of removable
devices, please contact the IT Department for assistance in setting up the
appropriate security procedures.
      (3)   If the virus scanning software detects an issue on a removable
device, contact the IT Department for assistance.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.8 EXTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Internet Connections
      (1)   Internet connections are authorized for specific business needs.
Connection to the Internet without your supervisor’s authorization is
prohibited. Incidental or occasional use of the Internet for personal reasons
may be permitted subject to all other Internet guidelines and should be limited
to formal lunch and break periods. All web sites visited on the Village network
are monitored, filtered, and recorded. Furthermore, the following activities
are prohibited without the authorization of your department director and the
knowledge of the IT Department.
         (a)   Accessing the Internet by intentionally bypassing the firewall.
         (b)   Downloading information of any kind, including data, files,
programs, pictures, screen savers, streaming video or audio, and attachments,
except as required in the fulfillment of one’s job responsibilities.
         (c)   Exploring the Internet for profit.
         (d)   Establishing communications with third parties that allows
access to the employee’s computer without prior IT approval.
         (e)   Forwarding or transmitting information to third parties or
employees for reasons other than Village business
         (f)   Copying programs, files, and data for reasons other than Village
business.
         (g)   Transmitting important, confidential, or proprietary
information.
         (h)   Speaking on behalf of the Village
      (2)   Individuals who have received management approval to transmit
information on the Internet should understand that such transmissions are
identifiable and attributable to the Village. Accordingly, users are expected
to maintain a professional decorum in all communications and transmissions.
      (3)   The following actions are prohibited under any circumstances:
         (a)   Portraying yourself as someone other than who you are or the
Village you represent.
         (b)   Accessing inappropriate web sites, data, pictures, jokes, files,
and games.
         (c)   Inappropriate chatting, email, monitoring, or viewing.
         (d)   Harassing, discriminating, or in any way making defamatory
comments.
         (e)   Transmitting junk mail, chain letters, or soliciting for
commercial, religious, charitable, or political causes except for Village-
sponsored or approved charities.
         (f)   Gambling or any other activity that is illegal, violates Village
policy, or is contrary to the Village’s interests.
         (g)   Accessing audio or video sites for entertainment purposes.
   (B)   Filters. The Village reserves the right to identify and block Internet
content that is inconsistent with the goals of the Village. Materials that may
reasonably be construed to be obscene, disruptive, or harmful to the working
environment may be blocked. Since no filtering mechanism can block all
objectionable content, however, computer users must adhere to the guidelines
stated herein and refrain from viewing, displaying, sending, receiving,
storing, or printing all such materials.
   (C)   Subscriptions. Use of subscription-based services for work purposes
without approval from your department director is prohibited. Some Internet
sites require that users subscribe before being able to use them. Users should
not subscribe to such services without prior approval. Resources of any kind
where fees are assessed may not be accessed without prior approval.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.9 EMAIL.
   (A)   Email is provided by the Village to assist in the conduct of Village
business. All messages composed, sent, received, or stored on the electronic
mail system are considered business communications and remain the property of
the Village. THERE IS NO EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY FOR ANY EMAIL. Although the
Village network and applications used may provide password security, the
Village cannot guarantee confidentiality of information transmitted on the
electronic communication systems. Therefore, confidential information should
generally not be transmitted either inside or outside the organization. Village
employees should also be aware that electronic messages deleted by the user are
not necessarily removed from the e-mail system.
   (B)   All email related to Village business should be transmitted via the
Village’s email system. Use of personal email accounts to conduct Village
business is prohibited.
   (C)   Incidental or occasional use of Village email for personal reasons may
be permitted but should be limited to formal lunch or break periods. To ensure
that the use of the electronic communication systems is consistent with the
Village’s legitimate interest, the village reserves the right to access
electronic communications when in its discretion the Village determines there
is a perceived need.
   (D)   The following email activity is prohibited:
      (1)   Accessing, or trying to access, another user’s email account unless
you are authorized to do so.
      (2)   Obtaining or distributing another user’s email account.
      (3)   Using email to harass, discriminate, or make defamatory comments.
      (4)   Using email in a manner that violates any Village policy or is
illegal.
      (5)   Transmitting Village records within or outside the Village without
authorization.
      (6)   Transmitting junk mail, chain letters, or soliciting for
commercial, religious, charitable, or political causes except in the case of a
Village-supported charity event.
      (7)   Sending or receiving copyrighted materials, trade secrets,
proprietary financial information, sensitive personnel data, or similar
information without authorization from your department director or without
appropriate encryption.
      (8)   The transmission of a message with someone else’s name as author
without the author’s permission.
      (9)   The transmission of unacceptable content, which includes, but is
not limited to, material that is pornographic, racist, sexist, or contains
inappropriate language for an office environment.
      (10)   Any use that impairs or damages any system operation or that
impairs or damages the use of the system by another account holder.
      (11)   The transmission of computer viruses through any form of
electronic media. Employees are not to open any file(s) or e-mail(s) that they
receive electronically if they do not recognize the source. All viruses are to
be reported to the IT Department.
   (E)   Computer users are required to report inappropriate use of email.
Appropriate email etiquette is essential to maintaining a productive and
professional work environment. Users should use the same standards of
professionalism in drafting email that they would use for any other formal
written communication on behalf of the Village.
      (1)   Rules of Email. The same standards of decorum, respect, and
professionalism that guide us in our face-to-face interactions and written
communication on behalf of the village apply to the use of email. It is
important to remember that an email recipient cannot hear tone or see body
language. As a result, you should never give bad news by email or use it to
criticize someone. If there is any possibility that the recipient will
misinterpret your e-mail, use another means to communicate.
      (2)   Forwarding Information
         (a)   If you receive an email (particularly an email with an
attachment) and intend to forward it to others, consider the following:
            1.   Is any of the information unnecessary or inappropriate for any
individual?
            2.   Would the author take exception to your forwarding the
information? (A good rule of thumb is to copy the author.)
            3.   Is the receiver likely to forward the information to
individuals that should not have, or do not need, the information?
            4.   Do the attachments have viruses?
         (b)   Forwarding Village email to a personal or private account is
prohibited without the consent of your department director and only for
business purposes.
      (3)   Spam. Sending unsolicited messages or files to individuals, groups,
or organizations that you do not have a prior relationship with is prohibited
without authorization from your supervisor. Sending messages or files with the
intent to cause harm or damage to the intended receiver is a violation of
Village policy and will be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
      (4)   Global Messages. Email messages sent to all employees on the
Village email system should only be used for work related subjects and must
have the approval of the appropriate department director before being sent.
Content in a message seat to all employees should be limited to text if
possible, and attachments should be used sparingly due to the storage space
requirements. If you have an attachment that must be included, it should be
posted on the intranet with a link to the attachment provided in the email.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.10 LOCAL AREA NETWORK.
   (A)   All important, confidential, or proprietary information must be stored
on the network. Storing information on your desktop computer or on removable
media is prohibited without authorization from your supervisor. The network is
equipped with electronic and physical security. Activity on the network is
monitored for tampering and other security breaches. Maintenance and back up
are performed on the network daily; and programs and other information are
updated regularly.
   (B)   Because important, confidential, and proprietary information is stored
on the network, only approved individuals are allowed access with written or
electronic authorization from a department director. All Village policies apply
to the network. The following activities are prohibited without authorization
from the director of information systems:
      (1)   Installation of business or personal software on the network.
      (2)   Making any changes to the network hardware or software.
      (3)   Exceeding authorization to network programs, data, and files.
      (4)   Assisting anyone within or outside the Village in obtaining access
to the network.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.11 PERSONAL/NON-VILLAGE OWNED EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any equipment that is not owned by the Village is not allowed to be
used on any premises unless written permission has been obtained. All
submissions for the use of such equipment should be made to the IT department
through your Department Manager. Examples of such equipment include, but are
not limited to, Tablets, Mice, and Thumb drives.
   (B)   All personal property is used entirely at the owner’s risk. The
Village or IT department will not support such devices and are not responsible
for installation, configuration or repairs due to damage or loss of any
personal item.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.12 PERSONAL CELL PHONE.
   (A)   The Village discourages the use of personal cellular equipment for
making phone calls or texting during business operating hours. Employees shall
not access any social media websites while on duty unless it is required as
part of their position.
   (B)   Employees can be reimbursed $20.00 (this benefit is taxable) a month
with prior approval from their Department Manager for their personal cell phone
as it pertains to their position. Any Village business such as texting and
village emails on your personal cell phone are subject to FOIA requests.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.13 REPORTING POLICY VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Computer users are required to report violations, or suspected
violations, of this technology use and security policy. Penalties may be
imposed under one or more of the following: Village regulations, state, federal
or international law. Activities that should immediately be reported to your
Department Director include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Attempts to circumvent established computer security systems.
      (2)   Use or suspected use of virus, Trojan horse, or hacker programs.
      (3)   Obtaining or trying to obtain another user’s password.
      (4)   Using the computer to make harassing or defamatory comments or to,
in any way, create a hostile work environment.
      (5)   Storing Village data on portable devices or storage outside the
Village’s network without the express permission of the department director.
      (6)   Using the computer to communicate inappropriate messages or jokes
that may be considered offensive by others.
      (7)   Illegal activity of any kind.
      (8)   Trying to damage the Village or an employee of the Village in any
way.
   (B)   Technology use and security policy violations will be investigated.
Complaints alleging misuse of IT resources will be directed to those
responsible for taking appropriate disciplinary action. Noncompliance with the
Village’s policy may result in discipline up to, and including, termination.
Depending upon the nature of the violation, criminal or civil charges might
also be filed. Offenses that are in violation of local, state, federal or
international laws will result in the immediate loss of computing privileges,
possible termination of employment, and will be reported to the appropriate law
enforcement authorities.
   (C)   The IT Manager working with Department Managers and Human Resources
typically handles minor infractions of this policy or those that appear
accidental in nature internally in an informal manner by electronic mail or in-
person discussions. More serious infractions are handled via formal procedures.
In some situations, it may be necessary to suspend account privileges to
prevent ongoing misuse while the situation is under investigation.
   (D)   More serious infractions, such as unauthorized use, attempts to steal
passwords or data, unauthorized use or copying of licensed software, violations
of Village or department policies, or repeated violations of minor infractions
may result in the temporary or permanent loss of access privileges. In all
cases, the offender’s Department Manager will be notified of the infraction.
   (E)   If you identify computer security vulnerability, you are required to
report it to the Information Systems director immediately. The Village will not
retaliate against individuals for reporting suspected violations of this
policy.
   (F)   An employee who leaves employment must return all Village equipment,
including telecommunication/computer equipment, to their Department Manager
upon the first request prior to or after separation procedures.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.14 TELECOMMUNICATIONS (TELEPHONES, CELL PHONES, FAXES, RADIOS).
   (A)   It is the policy of the Village to issue telecommunications equipment
to employees to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of business
communications, to ensure that telecommunications equipment is used wisely, and
to ensure that public funds are used prudently. These procedures ensure that
usage, costs, and appropriateness are reviewed by the department management on
a regular basis. EMPLOYEES USING VILLAGE OWNED TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
HAVE NO EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY IN SUCH EQUIPMENT.
   (B)   A request to obtain the use of telecommunications equipment shall be
submitted in writing to the IT department by the Department Manager. The
request must indicate which specific telecommunications device is required.
Each request must state to whom the equipment will be assigned, their
respective title, the account to be charged, and which of the following four
standards for issuance apply:
      (1)   Level of Responsibility: Users are involved in significant
organizational activities and policy determinations that require immediate and
ongoing communication and accessibility. The user may be required to maintain
communication/contact outside of the normal workday.
      (2)   Emergency Response: Users are required to have access to cellular
equipment for emergency response purposes.
      (3)   Field Level: Users have direct responsibility for managing field
operations. The employee’s job requires a significant amount of time in the
field or in a vehicle. The job has a high volume of time-sensitive calls.
      (4)   Public/Employee Safety: Continuous contact or immediate response is
required to provide safety. Users must hold a duty assignment that requires
continuous contact or immediate response to situations that promote public and/
or employee safety.
      (5)   Your Department Manager must approve the use of your own phone. You
will receive a stipend once a month for $20.00 (this benefit is taxable). The
assigned telecommunications equipment should not be transferred to other users
without written approval from the Department Manager.
   (C)   Employees are permitted to use Village telecommunications for personal
reasons in cases of absolute necessity. Any personal phone calls made or
received shall be limited to a short duration and done so away from the public.
   (D)   Employees should discourage persons from telephoning them for non-
business reasons at work. Abuse of this limited privilege for personal phone
calls may result in the privilege being revoked.
   (E)   The Department Manager shall be responsible for a regular review of
actual usage of cellular equipment time. Unauthorized personal use of the
assigned equipment shall trigger a review of the employee’s overall use of such
equipment. Violations of this policy may result in the employee’s loss of the
cellular equipment or other appropriate sanction, up to and including
termination of employment.
   (F)   It is the responsibility of the employee assigned telecommunications
equipment to look after such equipment in accordance with this policy.
Telecommunications equipment should not be left accessible to others; in the
event of the loss or theft of the cellular equipment the employee should notify
the department Manager in writing. Equipment lost/damaged through negligence
shall be replaced/repaired at the expense of the employee. Employees should not
use cellular equipment while driving a vehicle or when involved in other unsafe
conditions.
   (G)   The Department Manager will immediately advise the IT Manager (or IT
Staff) of any loss, damage, or theft of telecommunications equipment.
   (H)   Long distance telephone calls are restricted to Village business only
and are made under the authorization of the individual Department Manager.
   (I)   Any personal long-distance calls must be made collect or using a
personal calling card.
   (J)   When any telephone equipment is no longer needed by an employee it
should be returned to their Department Manager to be re-issued to another
employee
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 9.15 SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Village of Romeoville recognizes the popularity of Internet
social media, such as Facebook, Twitter, blogs, and wikis. We also recognize
the possible value to the individual and our organization of being able to
access and share information on such sites and that employees have the right to
engage in concerted activities. However, employees’ use of social media can
compromise confidential and proprietary information, damage the reputations of
individuals and organizations, and expose The Village of Romeoville, and
employees as individuals, to liability for damages.
      (2)   To minimize these risks, avoid declines in employee productivity
and job performance, and ensure that our IT resources and communications
systems are used only for legitimate purposes, the Village of Romeoville
expects its employees to adhere to the following guidelines regarding the use
of social media.
   (B)   Compliance with Related Policies and Agreements.
      (1)   First and foremost, individuals must recognize that they are
individually responsible for everything they post or disseminate on social
media, and that postings can be and often are viewed and re-circulated much
more widely once they appear on a particular site. This can occur very rapidly,
with the result that something intended for a limited audience quickly is
shared with a much wider, unintended audience. Also, once an item is on the
internet, it may live there forever, despite attempts to retract it.
      (2)   Therefore, social media should never be used in a way that violates
any other Village of Romeoville policies or employee obligations. If your post
would violate any of the Village of Romeoville’s policies in another forum, it
will also be a violation in an online forum. For example, employees are
prohibited from using social media to:
         (a)   Violate the Village of Romeoville’s IT resources and
communications systems policies.
         (b)   Violate the Village of Romeoville’s confidentiality and
proprietary rights policies.
         (c)   Circumvent the Village of Romeoville’s ethics and standards of
conduct policies.
         (d)   Defame or disparage the Village of Romeoville or its affiliates,
constituents, clients, vendors, or other interested parties.
         (e)   Harass other employees in any way.
         (f)   Circumvent policies prohibiting unlawful discrimination against
employees or applicants for employment.
         (g)   Violate the Village of Romeoville’s privacy policies (for
example, to access private password protected sites of co-workers or others
without permission).
         (h)   Violate any other laws or ethical standards.
      (3)   Employees who violate the Village of Romeoville’s policies in any
of these ways, and who are not engaging in concerted activity, may be subject
to discipline, up to and including termination of employment.
   (C)   Personal Use of Social Media. Personal use of social media is never
permitted on working time or by means of the Village of Romeoville’s computers,
networks and other IT resources and communications systems.
   (D)   No Expectation of Privacy.
      (1)   Do not use the Village of Romeoville’s IT resources and
communications systems for any matter that you desire to be kept private or
confidential. All contents of the Village of Romeoville’s IT resources and
communications systems are the property of the Village of Romeoville.
Therefore, employees should have no expectation of privacy in any message,
files, data, document, facsimile, telephone conversation, social media post,
conversation or message, or any other kind of information or communications
transmitted to, received or printed from, or stored or recorded on the Village
of Romeoville’s electronic information and communications systems.
      (2)   You are expressly advised that to prevent misuse, the Village of
Romeoville reserves the right to monitor, intercept and review, without further
notice, every employee’s activity using our IT resources and communications
systems, including but not limited to social media postings and activities, and
you consent to such monitoring by your acknowledgement of this policy and your
use of such resources and systems. This might include, without limitation, the
monitoring, interception, accessing, recording, disclosing, inspecting,
reviewing, retrieving, and printing of transactions, messages, communications,
postings, logins, recordings and other uses of the systems as well as keystroke
capturing and other network monitoring technologies.
      (3)   The Village of Romeoville may also store copies of such data or
communications for a period after they are created and may delete such copies
from time to time without notice.
   (E)   Business Use of Social Media. If your job duties involve your speaking
on behalf of the Village of Romeoville in a social media environment, you must
first obtain, seek approval for, such communication from the Village Manager.
Likewise, if you are contacted for comment by or about the Village of
Romeoville for publication, including in any social media outlet, direct the
inquiry to Village Manager’s office and do not respond without written
approval.
   (F)   Guidelines for Employees’ Responsible Use of Social Media. The above
material covers specific rules, policies, and contractual obligations that
employees must follow in using social media, whether for personal or business
purposes, in consideration of their employment and subject to discipline for
violations. The following sections of the policy provide employees with common-
sense guidelines and recommendations for using social media responsibly and
safely, in the best interests of the Village of Romeoville. These guidelines
reflect the “duty of loyalty” every employee owes its employer, and are
intended to add to, not limit or replace, the applicable rules, policies and
obligations set forth above.
   (G)   Protect Village of Romeoville’s Goodwill and Reputation.
      (1)   The Village of Romeoville’s policies prohibit employees from making
disparaging or defamatory statements about the Village of Romeoville or its
activities when speaking as a public employee on matters that are not of a
public concern, or concerted activities. Employees must never post comments
that are knowingly false about the Village of Romeoville and remember that your
statements have the potential to result in liability for yourself or the
Village of Romeoville. In addition, you should also avoid social media
communications that, although innocent in intent, might be misconstrued or
misunderstood to damage our goodwill and reputation. Protecting the Village of
Romeoville’s goodwill and reputation is every employee’s job.
      (2)   Make it clear in your social media postings that you are speaking
on your own behalf. Write in the first person and use your personal e-mail
address when communicating via social media. If you disclose your affiliation
as an employee of the Village of Romeoville, you should also include a
disclaimer that your views do not represent those of your employer. For
example, consider such language as “the views in this posting do not represent
the views of my employer.” Use good judgment about what you post, however, and
remember that anything you say can reflect on the Village of Romeoville even if
you include such a disclaimer.
      (3)   If you are uncertain or concerned about the appropriateness of any
statement or posting, refrain from making the communication until you discuss
it with your Manager.
      (4)   If you see content in social media that disparages or reflects
poorly on you or your department or the Village of Romeoville, do not retaliate
or take it on yourself to immediately reply. Instead, consult your Department
Manager.
   (H)   Respect Other’s Intellectual Property and Confidential Information.
      (1)   The Village of Romeoville policies also restrict employees’ use and
disclosure of confidential information and intellectual property. Even beyond
those mandatory restrictions, however, you must protect proprietary and other
confidential information and intellectual property, and refrain from doing
anything to jeopardize them, through your use of social media.
      (2)   To protect yourself and the Village of Romeoville against liability
for copyright infringement, include source references for information that you
post or upload, and cite the sources accurately. If you have any questions
about whether a particular post or upload might violate the copyright or
trademark or any person or company, ask the Village of Romeoville’s Human
Resources department before making the communication.
   (I)   Respect Your Co-workers and Colleagues.
      (1)   Employees must refrain from posting any harassing or discriminatory
content or remarks that are barred by law or policy.
      (2)   Do not post anything that your co-workers or the Village of
Romeoville’s affiliates, partners, constituents, clients, vendors, or others
might find offensive. Never include ethnic jokes or slurs, sexist or other
discriminatory comments, or insults or obscenity in anything you post.
      (3)   Please sign the acknowledgement form which will be given to all
employees by their supervisor or Human Resources Manager.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 10: DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
§ 10.1 GENERAL.
   (A)   Employees shall be subject to disciplinary action for failing to
fulfill their duties and responsibilities. It shall be the policy of the
Village to administer disciplinary action uniformly and without discrimination.
Disciplinary action may include action up to and including termination.
Discipline will be based upon the nature and severity of the infraction and
conditions surrounding the incident.
   (B)   The following is a guideline of some, but not limited to,
circumstances on which disciplinary action may be taken.
      (1)   Any falsification of information on the job application, other
employment records, or timesheets.
      (2)   Possession, use, or under the influence of any alcoholic beverages
or illegal/controlled substance or drug.
      (3)   Willful disobedience, insubordination, or intentional failure to
carry out any reasonable order by a superior.
      (4)   Deliberate damage, destruction, theft, or unauthorized removal of
Village property or another employee’s property.
      (5)   Any act which endangers the safety, health or well-being of another
Village employee, or person(s) of the public.
      (6)   Abuse of leave policy and absence without leave.
      (7)   Fighting on any Village premises at any time.
      (8)   Violation of any policy outlined in this manual, or any
departmental rules, regulations and/or policy.
      (9)   Inefficiently performing the duties of the position.
      (10)   Any act which would cause substantial disruption to the department
in which the employee is assigned or brings discredit to the Village.
      (11)   Any act of bullying or intimidation.
      (12)   Use of foul language.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 10.2 DISCIPLINARY STEPS.
   The employee’s immediate supervisor or Department Manager shall inform the
employee of the reason for disciplinary action. When practicable, as determined
by the Village Manager or designee, disciplinary action against the employee
may be progressive or based on the seriousness of the offense can lead directly
to suspension or termination.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 10.3 APPEAL OF TERMINATION.
   An employee terminated has the right to appeal to the Village Board of
Trustees within 15 days of the termination. The employee needs to contact the
Village Manager or designee within three business days of termination notice to
set up the hearing. This hearing is only for the employee and the Village Board
of Trustees. If the employee does not appeal the termination is final.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 11: PERSONNEL RECORDS
§ 11.1 PERSONNEL FILES.
   (A)   The Human Resources Office shall maintain the Village’s official
central personnel records for all Village employees. Personnel records shall
include a file for each employee. This file includes information regarding
attendance, pay, performance, attendance at training sessions, disciplinary
action, commendations, and any other items of a personnel nature. It is
considered an official record.
   (B)   Information contained in the personnel files is considered
confidential. The file may be reviewed by the employee’s supervisor, Village
Manager, Department Manager, and Village President. If an employee is applying
for a promotion or a transfer to another department, the respective Department
Manager may also review the file.
   (C)   A separate file for any medical records shall be maintained and
located separately from the employee’s personnel file. Access to this file will
be limited to Managers who have a legitimate need to review this information.
   (D)   Upon appropriate request, an employee may inspect and have copies made
of their personnel file during regular business hours of the Human Resources
Office. Employees shall have the right to respond in writing to any information
with which they disagree. The employee’s response shall become part of the
employee’s personnel file. Employees may not copy or inspect preemployment
information, such as reference checks.
   (E)   Supervisors may also keep copies of records regarding employees for
purposes of administering attendance, performance, and disciplinary policies.
   (F)   All requests for verification of employment or for references shall be
handled by the Human Resources Office and only will be provided if the employee
supplies a signed authorization for the Human Resources Office to do so. Other
Village departments or supervisors are not to provide information regarding
their employees or ex-employees to other individuals, businesses, or outside
agencies.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 11.2 CHANGE IN PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   Employees are required to provide information regarding name, address,
telephone number, dependents, marital status, disability status, next of kin,
beneficiaries, and emergency contact. Employees are required to inform the
Human Resources Office in writing of any changes within two weeks of their
occurrence. If such changes are not sent to the Human Resources Office in
accordance with this policy, any problems associated with the Village’s use of
out-of-date information shall be the responsibility of the employee
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 12: FINANCE
§ 12.1 TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   It is the Village’s policy to pay or reimburse an employee for travel, meal
and lodging expenses incurred while on official business of the Village.
Permitted travel includes but is not limited to official business, attendance
at conferences, symposiums, conventions, meetings, site visits, and continuing
education classes.
   Travel and training are a privilege and will be determined by the
appropriate Village management based upon the needs, financial constraints and
legal requirements of the Village. Employees are responsible for exercising
good judgment with respect to travel expenses. Village employees are also
expected to follow all relevant Village policies and procedures when traveling
including those set forth in the employee handbook. Misconduct will result in
disciplinary action.
   (A)   Maximum Allowable Reimbursement. The Village will reimburse an
employee for travel related expenses in connection with official Village
business so long as travel expenses do not exceed the amount approved in the
fiscal year budget. Further, meal and lodging expenses shall not exceed the
then current per-diem rate set by the General Services Administration (GSA) for
the location of the event.
   (B)   Travel Approval
      (1)   No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by an
employee shall be authorized or reimbursed unless the “Travel Authorization &
Estimated Expense Report” is approved in advance. If total estimated expense
submitted on the form are under $1,000 (including the cost of the seminar),
approval is needed in advance by the Department Manager for their employees.
Travel exceeding $1,000 (including the cost of the seminar) shall be approved
in advance by the Village Manager for all Department Managers and employees and
by the Village Board for the Village Manager.
      (2)   Travel Authorization Forms, as provided by the Finance Department,
must be attached by the requesting department to the purchase orders before
approval. No travel related arrangements may be made prior to the issuance of a
fully approved Travel Authorization Form and fully approved Purchase Order.
Employees under eighteen (18) years of age will be required to have a waiver
signed by a parent or legal guardian.
   (C)   Cash Advances. Cash advances to cover approved travel expenses may be
made to an employee, after the Travel Authorization Form has been approved. For
food and non-alcoholic beverage expenses only, an employee may request to
receive a per-diem allowance. The GSA establishes these rates, based on the
average cost of food and non-alcoholic beverage for a particular location.
Unused cash advances for travel, lodging or other expenses that are not needed
during travel must be returned with the completed travel expense report. Unused
cash advances for daily meal per diem allowances do not need to be returned
unless unanticipated meals were provided at the conference.
   (D)   Village Credit Cards. Village employees who are authorized to use a
Village Credit Card and use their card for authorized travel related expenses
must submit all receipts, including receipts for meal purchases. If the
employee also received a cash advance for a meal per diem and subsequently uses
the credit card, the per diem must be returned to the Village.
   (E)   Non-allowable Expenses.
      (1)   Spouse/Companion - The Village will not reimburse any expenses
associated with a Spouse/Companion who may accompany an employee to a seminar,
conference, or any event.
      (2)   Entertainment - The Village will not reimburse entertainment
expenses. Entertainment includes but is not limited to shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
engagement or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      (3)   Alcohol - The Village will not reimburse expenses for alcohol
purchases.
   (F)   Permitted Travel, Meals and Lodging.
      (1)   Conference/Seminar Registration - Employees must submit a request
to attend any conference and/or seminar. The request shall be submitted on the
Travel Authorization Form at least four weeks prior to the conference and/or
seminar. In the event that an employee is unavailable to attend a conference,
any fees associated with the cancellation of such conference will be reimbursed
to the Village unless there is an unforeseen circumstance and approved by the
Village Manager.
      (2)   Air Travel - All flights will be scheduled by a designee of the
Village Manager. Upgrades are permitted only if there is no charge to the
Village or prior approval is received from the Village Manager. Effort should
be made to submit the flight information timely so that the Village Manager
designee can book air travel well in advance to attain maximum cost savings.
Except in emergencies, all travel should be scheduled at least seven days in
advance to obtain the next best fares. In the event a flight needs to be
cancelled, employees should note that the cost of a non-refundable ticket can
be applied toward the purchase of a future ticket for the same passenger on the
same airline through the Village Manager designee, provided the ticket has been
canceled in advance of the scheduled flight time. In the event that an employee
is unable to travel on a flight booked as non-refundable, any fees associated
with the flight should be reimbursed by the employee, unless caused by an
unforeseen circumstance and approved by the Village Manager.
      (3)   Lodging - The Village will pay for lodging accommodations for
reasonably priced single occupancy rooms at moderate hotels. Employees are
expected to use sound judgment in selecting accommodations. Lodging will not be
provided for events, conferences, or business trips that are within 50 miles of
Village Hall, excluding multi-day events in Chicago, unless authorized by the
Village Manager. In locations where the conference or event has negotiated
preferred rates with certain hotels, the Village will offer accommodations at
these properties first. Alternate hotels will be allotted, including tax, up to
the lesser of the per night GSA lodging rate for the location or the per night
on-site conference/event rate. Receipts for lodging must be turned in.
      (4)   Transportation - It may be necessary for employees to travel by
either the use Village vehicles, personal automobiles, or other transportation
such as car rentals, taxi rides, limousine services, and public transportation.
In each situation, the most economical and efficient method should be selected
when possible. If it is not possible to use the most economical and efficient
method, approval must be obtained by the Village Manager.
         (a)   Village Vehicles - Individuals who are provided with or use a
company car will be reimbursed for gasoline, oil, repairs and maintenance
(tires, batteries, tune-ups, etc.), insurance, parking and tolls incurred when
the car is used for business related trips. Employees with company cars are not
eligible for a standard mileage rate reimbursement. Tolls, parking, and gas
expenses incurred when the car is used for personal reasons or for normal
commutation will not be reimbursed. Village Employees transporting participants
to an event must use a Village vehicle and be at least twenty-one (21) years of
age. The Village Manager or Department Managers can mandate an employee use a
village vehicle for business related travel, as well as mandating employees
travel together in a Village vehicle.
         (b)   Use of Personal Vehicle for Village Business - When a Village
vehicle is not available, employees will be reimbursed for mileage at the
current IRS rate, tolls, and parking when using their personal vehicle for
business purposes. Mileage reimbursement will be based on mileage from the
employee’s work location to the off-site location of the official business, not
from the employee’s residence. When attending a training event or other off-
site official business directly from an employee’s residence, no reimbursement
will be made if the distance is less than the mileage of a normal commute to
the workplace. If the distance is higher than the normal commute, reimbursement
will be paid based on the differential of the actual distance driven less the
mileage of a normal commute to the workplace. An employee will only be
reimbursed up to the price of a coach airfare ticket if they drive to a
location for which airfare would have been less expenses.
         (c)   Automobile Rentals - Travelers will be reimbursed for the cost
of renting an automobile for official business, including gasoline expense only
as provided in this section. Travelers should decline the Collision Damage
Insurance as this would be covered by the Village’s insurance. In addition,
employees should decline the fuel purchase option and should always refuel
rental cars before returning. Rental cars will not be reimbursed if used for
personal business during travel.
         (d)   Public Transportation - In the case of local training or
official business where an employee chooses to use public transportation,
reimbursement for use of public transportation shall be the cost of the public
transportation.
         (e)   Other Transportation - For out-of-town travel, employees should
utilize hotel shuttle service or other shuttle services that are the most
affordable. Employees should always choose the most economical transportation.
If it is most affordable, employees are permitted to use their personal vehicle
and be reimbursed mileage plus daily parking up to $30 per day at the airport.
Receipts must be provided.
         (f)   Parking - Parking fees at a hotel or incidental to other travel
will be reimbursed only with a receipt.
      (5)   Meals - Meal expenses and reimbursements are limited to the current
U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) per diem rate for the location of
travel at the time expense is incurred. Meals provided by a conference or
seminar should be deducted from the per diem allowance. The per diem allowance
should be used to cover all employee expense (meals, snacks, tips). Partial
reimbursement may be made for the departure and return days based on the time
of day. No receipts need to be kept or turned in for meal per diem allowances.
   (G)   Expense Reporting Requirements. Expense reimbursement request should
be prepared promptly. In general, expenses must be submitted within thirty (30)
days of when they were incurred.
      (1)   Documentation - An original receipt must be submitted for any
expense, excluding meal per diem allowance and mileage reimbursement.
      (2)   Expense Report Processing - The following audit checks of an
expense report must be performed by the approving Manager and reviewed by
Accounts Payable before reimbursement is processed
         (a)   Business purpose is valid and fully explained.
         (b)   All required receipts have been submitted, and properly support
the reported expenditures/evidence proof of payment.
         (c)   The expense report has been properly completed and approved.
         (d)   The expenses qualify for reimbursement in accordance with this
policy.
         (e)   If actual expenses exceed the approved estimate approved on the
Travel Authorization Form, a written explanation must be provided and approved
by the Village Manager.
   (H)   Seminar Write Up. Every employee who attends a seminar or conference
will turn in a Seminar Write-up Form that will provide brief but in-depth
detail of what seminar and/or conference sessions the employee attended, what
the employee learned and what benefit it will bring to the Village and/or
employee. A form must be filled out for each session attended and turned into
the employee’s Department Manager.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 13: CREDIT CARD USAGE
§ 13.1 VILLAGE AUTHORIZED CREDIT CARD USE.
   Department Managers, and designated Department employees may be authorized
to use a Village credit card. The card must be approved by Finance Director or
Village Manager. The use of the card shall be for budgeted items only and when
there are restraints that limit the usual purchase order process. Employees
found guilty of illegal or unauthorized use of a Village credit card may be
subject to penalties allowed by law and/or disciplinary action up to and
including termination.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 13.2 GUIDELINES.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of each cardholder to be acquainted with the
purchasing policies and guidelines of the Village and to make credit card
purchases in accordance with these policies. Examples of the types of
transactions your Village Credit Card could be used includes:
      (1)   Purchase of material and supplies
      (2)   Annual Licensing Fees
      (3)   Business travel
      (4)   Seminar Registration
      (5)   Professional Memberships
   (B)   The above list is by no means complete. It is understood, that from
time to time, payment by credit card is the most economical way of obtaining
goods and services. The original receipt for these items must be attached to
the monthly credit card statement.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 13.3 CARDHOLDER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Village credit card is not a personal credit card and remains the
property of the Village of Romeoville. All outstanding charges on the card are
the liability of the Village of Romeoville. The following responsibilities
listed below are the responsibility of the authorized cardholding employee:
   (A)   Ensure that the credit card is used in compliance with the Village’s
Purchasing Policies.
   (B)   The Employee issued the credit card shall be responsible for the
protection and custody of card issued and shall immediately notify the Village
Finance Director if the card is lost or stolen.
   (C)   Village credit card can be used only for the purchase of goods or
services for the Village.
   (D)   Village credit card users should notify vendors or merchants that the
credit card transaction is tax exempt from Illinois Sales and Use taxes if the
credit card is used for a purchase of goods or services in the State of
Illinois.
   (E)   The credit card shall not be used for cash advances or any other type
of personal purchase.
   (F)   All purchases made with a Village credit card must be reported with
approved receipts and associated documentation detailing the goods or services
purchased, cost, date of the purchase and the official business explanation,
therefore, reference the budgeted expense account.
   (G)   All such documentation set shall be tendered to the Village Finance
Department in a timely manner to reconcile against each monthly credit card
statement.
   (H)   Any credit card in the possession of an employee must be immediately
surrendered to the Village Treasurer upon termination of appointment or
employment.
   (I)   Employees authorized to use a Village Credit Card must complete and
sign the “Village of Romeoville Credit Card Acknowledgement Form.”
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 13.4 VILLAGE INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURES.
   The Village Finance Director and/or designee shall be responsible for the
issuance and retrieval of assigned Village Credit Cards, and generally for
ensuring compliance with this Policy. Such duties shall include, but not be
limited to:
   (A)   Maintaining a record of issuance and retrieval of Village credit cards
and overseeing compliance with this Policy.
   (B)   Accounting and payment of expenses, and ensuring all documentation
required is submitted.
   (C)   Ensuring accuracy of the statement and that activity and account
information is noted on the credit card statement for each line of entry.
   (D)   Compliance with Illinois law relative to records retention for
safekeeping of statements and receipts.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
**** SECTION 14: EMPLOYEE TRAINING ****
§ 14.1 ORIENTATION OF NEW EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All new employees of the Village shall participate in an orientation
program conducted by the Human Resources Office as soon as practicable after
commencement of employment. The goal of this training is to introduce the new
employee to the Village organization, benefits, rights, privileges,
responsibilities, expectations, and other matters related to employment.
   (B)   Each department is responsible for orienting new employees on specific
issues and policies that are applicable to that department.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 14.2 SCHEDULING OF TRAINING.
   It will be the responsibility of the employee to coordinate dates and times
with the Department Manager before the employee schedules any training or
attends any educational programs so it does not interfere with the efficient
operations of the department.
   (A)   Probationary Period: The objective of the probationary period shall be
regarded as an integral part of the evaluation process and shall be utilized by
supervisors and Department Managers for closely observing the employee’s work,
providing the probationary employee with continual feedback, and for changing
the work pattern of a new employee whose performance does not meet the required
job standards. This period is intended to familiarize probationary employees
with existing departmental personnel and practices. Employees are still “at-
will” employees during their probation period and may be terminated at any
time, with or without notice or cause. Successful completion of the Probation
Period does not guarantee continued employment for any certain period of time
nor does it alter an employee’s at-will relationship with the Village.
   (B)   Duration of Probationary Period: (Excludes employees hired by the Fire
and Police commission): Every employee appointed to a regular position or
promoted to a regular position shall be required to successfully complete a
probationary period. The probationary period shall be of sufficient length to
enable the Department Manager to evaluate the employee’s ability to perform the
principal duties of the position. The probationary period shall begin
immediately upon original appointment or promotion. For original appointments
it shall be a minimum of three (3) months and may be extended to a maximum of
six (6) months. The probationary period for employees who have received a
promotion shall be a minimum of one (1) month and may be extended to a maximum
of three (3) months. A Department Manager may at any time after the minimum
probationary period has been served and before the maximum has been reached
evaluate the employee’s performance and the probationary period should end.
Salary increases during a probationary period shall be at the Village Manager’s
discretion.
   (C)   Probationary Period Extension: If there is reason to believe the
employee may develop the ability to perform satisfactorily by an extension of
the probationary period, the Village Manager may grant an extension, not to
exceed six (6) months. There may be only one (1) extension of the probationary
period. Prior to the end of each employee’s probationary period, the Department
Manager shall complete a performance review and notify the Village Manager, in
writing, that either:
      (1)   The employee has successfully completed the probationary period and
is capable of performing the duties of the position satisfactorily.
      (2)   The employee has not demonstrated ability to perform satisfactorily
the duties of the position and is to be separated from Village employment, or
if promoted from another position, returned to the previous one, if vacant; or
      (3)   The employee may develop the ability to perform satisfactorily, and
an extension of the probationary period is requested.
   (D)   Termination During Probationary Period: If at any time during the
probationary period the Department Manager determines the employee’s work has
been deemed unsatisfactory, the employee may be terminated from Village or, in
the case of a promoted employee, demoted to their prior position or a
comparable position, if available, without the right to invoke the Grievance
Procedures.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 15: EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
§ 15.1 ANTI-HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Statement of Policy
      (1)   It is the Village of Romeoville’s policy that it will not tolerate
or condone discrimination or harassment based upon any Protected Classes. The
Village of Romeoville will neither tolerate nor condone discrimination or
harassment by employees, Managers, supervisors, elected officials, co-workers,
or non-employees with whom Village of Romeoville has a business, service, or
professional relationship. Retaliation against an employee who complains about
or reports any act of discrimination or harassment in violation of this policy
is prohibited. Retaliation against any employee who participates in an
investigation pursuant to this policy is likewise prohibited. The Village of
Romeoville is committed to ensuring and providing a workplace free of
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. The Village of Romeoville will
take disciplinary action, up to and including termination, against an employee
who violates this policy.
      (2)   As set forth above, sexual harassment is prohibited. Sexual
harassment includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or
any other visual, verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   submission to or rejection of this conduct explicitly or
implicitly affects a term or condition of individual’s employment.
         (b)   submission to or rejection of the conduct is used as the basis
for an employment decision affecting the harassed employee or;
         (c)   the harassment has the purpose or effect of unreasonably
interfering with the employee’s work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment because of the persistent, severe, or
pervasive nature of the conduct.
      (3)   Sexual harassment can occur in a variety of circumstances,
including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The employee as well as the harasser may be any gender. The
employee does not have to be of the opposite sex.
         (b)   The harasser can be the employee’s supervisor, an agent of the
employer, a supervisor in another area, a co-worker, or a non-employee.
         (c)   The employee does not have to be the person harassed but could
be anyone affected by the offensive conduct.
         (d)   Unlawful sexual harassment may occur without economic injury to
or discharge of the employee.
         (e)   The harasser’s conduct must be unwelcomed.
      (4)   Each employee must exercise their own good judgment to avoid
engaging in conduct that may be perceived by others as sexual harassment or
harassment based on any status protected by law. The following are
illustrations of actions that the country deems inappropriate and in violation
of our policy:
         (a)   Unwanted sexual advances.
         (b)   Offering employment benefits in exchange for sexual favors.
         (c)   Making or threatening retaliation after a negative response to a
sexual advance or after an employee has made or threatened to make a harassment
complaint.
         (d)   Visual conduct such as leering, making sexual gestures,
displaying sexually suggestive objects or pictures, cartoons, calendars or
posters.
         (e)   Verbal conduct such as making or using derogatory comments,
epithets, slurs, sexually explicit jokes, derogatory or suggestive comments
about a person’s body or dress.
         (f)   Written or electronic communications of a sexual nature or
containing statements or images which may be offensive to individuals in a
particular protected group, such as racial or ethnic stereotypes regarding
disabled individuals.
         (g)   Physical conduct such as unwanted touching, assaulting, impeding
or blocking movements.
   (B)   Responsibilities.
      (1)   Supervisors. Each supervisor shall be responsible for ensuring
compliance with this policy, including the following:
         (a)   Monitoring the workplace environment for signs of discrimination
and harassment.
         (b)   Stopping any observed acts of discrimination or harassment and
taking appropriate steps to intervene, whether the involved employees are
within their line of supervision.
         (c)   Reporting any complaint of harassment or discrimination to the
Human Resources Manager; and
         (d)   Taking immediate action to limit the work contact between the
individuals when there has been a complaint of discrimination or harassment,
pending investigation.
      (2)   Employees. Each employee is responsible for assisting in the
prevention of discrimination and harassment through the following acts:
         (a)   Refrain from participation in, or encouragement of, actions that
could be perceived as discrimination or harassment.
         (b)   Reporting any violations of this policy to a supervisor and law
enforcement (if appropriate under the circumstances); and
         (c)   Encouraging any employee who confides that they are the victim
of conduct in violation of this policy to report these acts to a supervisor.
      (3)   Failure to take action to stop known discrimination or harassment
may be grounds for discipline.
      (4)   There is a clear line in most cases between a mutual attraction and
a consensual exchange and unwelcome behavior or pressure for an intimate
relationship. A friendly interaction between two persons who are receptive to
one another is not considered unwelcome or harassment. Employees are free to
form social relationships of their own choosing. However, when one employee is
pursuing or forcing a relationship upon another who does not like or want it,
regardless of friendly intentions, the behavior is unwelcome sexual behavior.
An employee confronted with these actions by a co-worker should inform the
harasser that such behavior is offensive and tell the harasser to stop. You
should assume that sexual comments are unwelcome unless you have clear
unequivocal indications to the contrary. In other words, another person does
not have to tell you to stop for your conduct to be harassment and unwelcome.
Sexual communications and sexual contact with a minor are ALWAYS prohibited.
      (5)   If you are advised by another employee that your behavior is
offensive, you must immediately stop the behavior, regardless of whether you
agree with the person’s perceptions of your intentions.
      (6)   The Village of Romeoville does not consider conduct in violation of
this policy to be within the course and scope of employment and does not
sanction such conduct on the part of any employee, including supervisory and
management employees.
   (C)   Applicable Procedures.
      (1)   The Village of Romeoville takes allegations of discrimination and
harassment very seriously. It will actively investigate all complaints.
      (2)   It is helpful for the employee to directly inform the offending
individual that the conduct is unwelcome and must stop. The employee should use
the Village of Romeoville’s complaint procedure to advise the Village of
Romeoville of any perceived violation of this policy.
      (3)   Bringing a Complaint.
         (a)   Any employee of the Village of Romeoville, who believes that
there has been a violation of this policy, may bring the matter to the
attention of the Village of Romeoville in one of the following ways:
            1.   Advising their supervisor; or
            2.   Advising the offending employee’s supervisor, the Human
Resources Manager or the Village Manager in the event that the alleged harasser
is the Human Resources Manager.
         (b)   If the complaint involves someone in the employee’s direct line
of command, then the employee should go directly to the Human Resources
Manager.
         (c)   The complaint should be presented as promptly as possible after
the alleged violation of this policy occurs.
      (4)   Resolution of a Complaint.
         (a)   Promptly after a complaint is submitted, the Village of
Romeoville will undertake such investigation, corrective, and preventative
actions as are appropriate. In general, the procedure in resolving any
complaints can (but will not necessarily) include any of the following items:
            1.   A meeting between the employee making the complaint and an
individual designated by the Village of Romeoville to investigate such
complaints. Important data to be provided by the complaining employee includes
the following:
               a.   A description of the specific offensive conduct.
               b.   Identification of all people who engaged in the conduct.
               c.   The location where the conduct occurred.
               d.   The time when the conduct occurred.
               e.   Whether there were any witnesses to the conduct.
               f.   Whether conduct of a similar nature has occurred on prior
occasions.
               g.   Whether there are any documents which would support the
complaining employee’s allegations.
               h.   What impact the conduct had on the complaining employee?
            2.   While not required, the Village of Romeoville encourages
anyone who makes a complaint under this policy to provide a written statement
setting forth the above details and attaching any pertinent records.
            3.   After a written statement of complaint is submitted by the
employee, the alleged offending individual should be contacted by a designated
representative of the Village of Romeoville. The alleged offending individual
should be advised of the charges brought against them and may be provided with
a copy of the written statement of complaint made by the complaining employee.
The alleged offending individual should have an opportunity to fully explain
their side of the circumstances, and may also submit a written statement, if
desired.
            4.   After the alleged offending individual is interviewed, any
witnesses identified by either the complaining employee or the alleged
offending individual may be interviewed separately.
            5.   Once the investigation is completed, the Village of Romeoville
will take such action as is appropriate based upon the information obtained in
the investigation. In the event that the Village of Romeoville finds merit in
the charges made by the complaining employee, disciplinary action will be taken
against the offending employee. This disciplinary action may result in
discipline up to and including termination of employment.
            6.   Upon completion of the investigation, the Village of
Romeoville will advise the complaining employee of the results of the
investigation, including action taken, if any, against the offending
individual.
         (b)   When investigating alleged violations of this policy, the
Village of Romeoville looks at the whole record including, but not limited to,
the nature of the allegations, the context in which the alleged incidents
occurred, and the statements of the parties and witnesses. A determination on
the allegations is made from the facts on a case-by case basis.
         (c)   Knowingly making a false report of sexual harassment may result
in discipline up to and including termination.
   (D)   Non-Retaliation.
      (1)   Under no circumstances will there be any retaliation against any
employee making a complaint of discrimination or harassment. Any act of
retaliation by any party directly against a complaining employee, or accused
employee, witness, or participants in the process will be treated as a separate
and distinct charge and will be similarly investigated. Complaints of
retaliation should be addressed to the Human Resources Manager or the Village
Manager.
      (2)   If you have any questions concerning the Village of Romeoville’s
policies on this matter, please see your supervisor or the Human Resources
Manager. Further information may also be obtained from the Illinois Department
of Human Rights, 312-814-6200, or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
(EEOC), 800-669-4000.
      (3)   Please acknowledge receipt and review of this policy by completing
the attached acknowledgement and returning it to Human Resources.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 15.2 DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION CODE OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   The Village of Romeoville is dedicated to creating an inclusive work
environment for everyone. We embrace the unique experiences, perspective and
cultural backgrounds that each employee brings to our workplace. The Village
strives to foster an environment where our employees feel respected, valued and
empowered, and our employees are at the forefront in helping us promote and
sustain a diverse, inclusive and equitable workplace.
      (1)   The Village is committed to taking the following actions in support
of a diverse, inclusive and equitable workplace
      (2)   Provide ongoing education and training lo all employees on
diversity, inclusion and equity topics.
      (3)   Provide all employees with a safe avenue to voice concerns
regarding diversity, inclusion and equity in our workplace.
      (4)   Conduct periodic surveys to identify areas where the Village
supports inclusive practices as well as where there is room for growth and
improvement.
   (B)   Code of Conduct.
      (1)   All Village of Romeoville employees are expected to support an
inclusive workplace by adhering to the following conduct standards:
         (a)   Address and report inappropriate behavior and comments that are
discriminatory harassing, abusive, offensive and unwelcome.
         (b)   Foster teamwork and employee participation, encouraging the
representation of different employee perspectives.
         (c)   Seek out insights from employees with different experiences,
perspective and backgrounds.
         (d)   Avoid slang or idioms that might not translate across cultures.
         (e)   Be mindful of the decisions or behaviors of others that are
based on conscious or unconscious biases.
         (f)   Be open-minded and listen when given constructive feedback
regarding others’ perception of your conduct.
         (g)   Treat others with dignity and respect at all times.
      (2)   The Village of Romeoville will not tolerate discrimination,
harassment or any behavior or language that is abusive, offensive and
unwelcome.
   (C)   Violations.
      (1)   Employees are expected to report incidents that violate this code
of conduct by contacting their supervisor, Department Manager or human
resources.
      (2)   Employees who violate Village of Romeoville’s code of conduct
expectations will face disciplinary actions. Possible consequences include
additional training, verbal and written warnings, suspension and termination of
employment. This a ZERO tolerance policy.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 15.3 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Village recognizes that problems of a personal nature can have a
negative effect on an employee’s job performance, and the Employee Assistance
Program (“EAP”) has been established to help deal with these problems. The EAP
is designed to deal with a broad range of personal problems such as alcohol or
drug abuse, emotional or behavioral disorders, family discord, and other
personal problems.
   (B)   The goals of the EAP are:
      (1)   To identify troubled employees.
      (2)   To motivate them to seek and accept help.
      (3)   To assess their situation and develop a plan of action.
      (4)   To assist them in getting the services they need.
   (C)   Counseling is confidential in the EAP, although a supervisor may refer
an employee. No records are released to the Village without the employee’s
consent. Employees who utilize the EAP on their own initiative are assured of
confidentiality.
   (D)   The services of the EAP are available to all full-time employees and
their dependents if the dependent is covered by the employee’s health insurance
coverage. An appointment with an EAP counselor can be arranged by telephone.
The telephone number is available in the Human Resources Office.
   (E)   There is no charge for the initial assessment service. However, if
costs are incurred for rehabilitation services that are not covered by
insurance, that cost will be the responsibility of the employee.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 16: EMPLOYEE HEALTH
§ 16.1 PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS.
   There may be times when an employee, or group of employees, by the nature of
their job or job assignments, must undergo certain medical examinations and/or
tests for their own safety and the safety of others. Such examinations and/or
tests shall be restricted to only those which are directly related to the safe
performance of their job as well as other Village employees and the public with
whom they are or may have been in contact. The costs for such examination and/
or tests will be borne in full by the Village. Failure of an employee to submit
to such required examinations and/or tests ordered or administered by the
Village, including failure to complete a required medical questionnaire, may
allow for disciplinarily action to be taken against that employee, up to and
including dismissal.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 16.2 AIDS POLICY.
   (A)   The Village shall not illegally discriminate in its employment or
personnel practices against persons who have Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome (AIDS), are infected with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) or
are perceived to have any of the above conditions, hereinafter collectively
referred to as AIDS.
   (B)   The Village shall treat employees who have AIDS like those having any
other life-threatening illnesses, which are not normally transmitted by casual
contact in ordinary social or usual occupational settings. So long as such
employees are medically and physically able to perform their jobs in a
satisfactory manner and do not pose a danger to their own health and safety nor
to the health and safety of others, they shall be permitted to work.
   (C)   Coworkers shall have no valid basis upon which to refuse to work or
withhold their services for fear of contracting AIDS by working with or near an
AIDS-infected person. Therefore, employees who engage in such refusals to work
or withholding of services, or who harass or otherwise illegally discriminate
against an AIDS-infected employee shall be subject to disciplinary action.
   (D)   If an employee has, or is believed to have had, an on-the-job or
occupational exposure to blood or body fluids, the employee shall be
transported to a medical facility for HIV antibody testing. Such testing shall
be at the Village’s expense.
   (E)   It shall be the Village’s responsibility to make available necessary
protective garments and equipment to employees who are at risk of occupational
exposure to AIDS to facilitate the safe performance of their jobs.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 16.3 DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY.
   (A)   The Village has a vital interest in maintaining a safe, healthy, and
efficient working environment for its employees. Drug and alcohol use both on
and off-the-job can impair an employee’s ability to perform their job
responsibilities and can also pose a safety and/or health risk to the employee,
other Village employees, the public and to Village property. All employees are
required to report to their jobs in the appropriate mental and physical
condition, ready and able to work.
   (B)   The Village also recognizes that its own health and future are
dependent upon the physical and psychological health of its employees.
Accordingly, the Village has established the following guidelines regarding
use, distribution, possession and/or sale of alcohol and/or prohibited
substances.
   (C)   For purposes of this policy, the term “prohibited substances” shall be
defined as any controlled substance, including marijuana, cocaine, opiate,
amphetamine, PCP and all other “controlled substances” as defined by federal or
state law. Prohibited substances shall also include any drug which is not
legally obtainable and/or any drug which is legally obtainable, such as a
prescription drug, but which has not been legally obtained, or is not being
used for prescribed purposes, and/or is not being taken according to prescribed
dosages.
      (1)   The Village will administer a pre-employment drug screening to
prevent the hiring of individuals who use illegal drugs.
      (2)   The manufacture, possession, use, distribution, sale, purchase and/
or transfer of, or being under the influence of, alcohol and/or illegal drugs,
in any detectable amount, is strictly prohibited while on Village property,
while performing Village business and/or while operating a Village vehicle. The
lawful possession of alcohol in the original container and with the seal
unbroken, in an employee’s personal vehicle parked on Village property during
the employee’s assigned hours, or in a Village vehicle when being transported
for a work-related purpose, shall not be a violation of this policy.
      (3)   The possession and/or use of a legal controlled substance, in any
detectable amount, which impairs the employee’s ability to perform the
essential functions of their job is strictly prohibited while on Village
property, while performing Village business and/or while operating a Village
vehicle.
      (4)   Drug testing of sworn police officers shall be governed by the
terms of the then-current collective bargaining agreement and not by this
policy.
      (5)   Drug testing of all other employees shall be required when there is
reasonable suspicion that an employee has any detectable amount of alcohol and/
or drugs in their system. For purposes of this policy “reasonable suspicion”
shall mean a Supervisor has a reasonable basis to believe the employee is
impaired or manifests symptoms or conduct that impact their ability to
sufficiently perform their job responsibilities. When such reasonable suspicion
exists, the employee shall not be permitted to remain at work, on Village
property and/or in possession of a Village vehicle and shall be subject to an
immediate drug and/or alcohol screening.
      (6)   Being under the influence may be determined by a test result which
identifies any detectable amount of a prohibited substance upon urine testing
processed by a federally certified laboratory or based on observations that
lead a supervisor to reasonably suspect that an employee is under the influence
of drugs or alcohol.
      (7)   In addition to the drug and/or alcohol testing identified above,
any employee possessing a commercial driver’s license (CDL) as a condition of
their employment, shall also be subject to random drug and/or alcohol testing.
      (8)   Refusal or failure to comply with the required drug/alcohol
screening and/or random drug testing as set forth in this policy, will result
in disciplinary action up to and including immediate termination of employment.
Off-the-job illegal alcohol/drug use and/or illegal drug activity could
adversely affect an employee’s job performance, jeopardize the safety of other
Village employees, the public or Village facilities, jeopardize the security of
Village finances or business records and/or adversely affect customers or the
public’s trust in the Village’s ability to carry out its responsibilities. Any
reasonable suspicion that an employee is involved in off-the-job illegal
alcohol/drug use and/or illegal drug activity will be considered a violation of
this policy. For purposes of this policy “illegal drug activity” shall mean the
manufacture, possession, distribution, sale, purchase and/or transfer of any
illegal drug or any similar activity that would be a violation of Federal,
State, or local laws.
      (9)   The legal use of prescribed drugs or commercially available over-
the-counter drugs is permitted on the job only if it does not impair an
employee’s ability to perform the employee’s job duties. Employees using a
prescribed medication or an over-the-counter medication that may impair mental
or motor functions required for performance of their job duties must
immediately inform Human Resources of such use. The Human Resources Manager, in
conjunction with the employee, will discuss the level of impairment on an
individual basis and may limit an employee’s performance of duties or implement
other responsive measures. This policy also prohibits the use of medically
prescribed marijuana in the workplace or being under the influence of marijuana
as a “qualifying patient” under the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., during the workday or work
activities.
      (10)   The Village recognizes that alcoholism/drug abuse is a treatable
illness. The Village shall not discriminate against employees based on the
nature of such illness. No employee shall have their job security threatened by
voluntarily seeking assistance for a substance abuse problem. The same
consideration for referral and treatment afforded to other employees having
non-drug/alcohol related illnesses shall be extended to such employees actively
seeking treatment for substance abuse. While the Village supports employees’
efforts to treat substance abuse, the Village may impose discipline in response
to policy violations that arise prior to an employee’ s request to pursue
treatment.
         (a)   Every effort shall be made to work with and assist the employee
in seeking and obtaining treatment without undue delay.
         (b)   An employee who voluntarily seeks treatment for a substance
abuse problem and requests a leave of absence for treatment may be granted the
leave of absence, as permitted by Departmental needs, and provided under
applicable State and/or Federal law. An employee who seeks a leave of absence
may also be eligible for benefits under the specifications of the existing
insurance policy.
   (D)   Any violation of this policy by an employee shall subject the employee
to appropriate discipline, which may include termination of employment. An
employee’s unlawful use of prohibited substances and/or alcohol, and/or any
unlawful drug activity, shall be cause for immediate discharge from further
employment with the Village. Where an employee is subject to discipline due to
Village’s determination that the employee is impaired and the employee
contends, they are a “qualifying patient” under the Illinois Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, the Village will offer the employee the
opportunity to respond to the determination regarding impairment as required by
law.
   (E)   Nothing in this policy shall be construed to discharge the Village
from its responsibility to maintain a safe and secure work environment for its
employees or from invoking such disciplinary actions as may be deemed
appropriate for actions of misconduct by virtue of an employee’s use or abuse
of alcohol and/or any prohibited substance.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
SECTION 17: SAFETY
§ 17.1 WEAPONS POSSESSION POLICY.
   (A)   Employees may not, at any time, carry or possess a weapon in any
building or portion of a building under the control of the Village, or in any
vehicle owned, leased or under the control of the village. For purposes of this
policy, “weapon” shall mean any loaded or unloaded gun, knives with blades over
four (4) inches in length, explosives and/or any chemical whose purpose is to
cause harm to other persons. For purposes of this policy “under the control of
shall mean any building or vehicle operated by the Village in its regular
course of business, including but not limited to the Village Hall, the
Village’s Law Enforcement Center, the Village’s Public Works Facility, and
wastewater pumping stations.
   (B)   The policy shall not apply to sworn police officers and arson
investigators employed by the Village. This policy shall apply to all other
Village employees, regardless of whether the employee possesses a license
issued by the Illinois Department of State Police to carry or possess a gun,
concealed or otherwise.
   (C)   Employees shall be subject to a search of their personal property
(including but not limited to purses and briefcases) located in a building
under the control of the Village or any vehicle owned, leased or under the
control of the Village, when reasonable suspicion exists to believe the
employee is in possession of a weapon. For purposes of this policy, “reasonable
suspicion” shall mean that a Supervisor has a reasonable basis to believe the
employee is in possession of a weapon. Any violation of this policy by an
employee shall subject the employee to appropriate discipline, which may
include termination of employment.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 17.2 WORKPLACE VIOLENCE/ACTIVE SHOOTER POLICY.
   (A)   If you are involved in a situation where someone has entered the area
and started shooting, the following is a list of actions that are recommended.
It should be noted that this type of incident is unpredictable. The below
guidelines are recommendations that are based on past experiences. You may have
to alter some of these suggestions, depending on the situation.
   (B)   The policy outlined herein is meant to establish baseline agency/
department protocols across the Village of Romeoville for active shooter
situations. Additionally, whenever possible, it is recommended that agencies
commit to the implementation of the best practices outlined in the subsequent
sections of this document.
      (1)   Each facility shall have an active shooter preparedness plan, which
is to be updated every two years, as needed. At a minimum, a plan should
comprise the following.
         (a)   Security Assessments
         (b)   Preparedness
         (c)   Communication
         (d)   Incident Plan (i.e., actions to take during the incident)
         (e)   Training and Exercises
         (f)   Post Incident Recovery (Employees, Operations)
      (2)   As plans are drafted, reviewed, and updated, each facility
Designated Official or designee shall collaborate with the Romeoville Police
Department and all first responder agencies likely to address an active shooter
situation.
      (3)   Department representatives shall provide training, materials, and/
or awareness discussions to inform employees of active shooter preparedness
plans as they are updated.
      (4)   Employees should be made aware of the Village of Romeoville-
endorsed A.L.I.C.E. (Alert, Lockdown, Inform, Counter, Evacuate) Program.
      (5)   Employees should be informed of the importance of having a personal
plan.
      (6)   New employees should be given active shooter preparedness training
during the initial onboarding period.
      (7)   The active shooter plan need not be a stand-alone document. The
Romeoville Police Department and/or its designated official will determine the
best way to incorporate the active shooter plan into existing protocols.
   (C)   Active Shooter When Able to Leave Facility
      (1)   Exit the building immediately and notify anyone you may encounter
to exit the building also.
      (2)   Get as far away from the incident as possible and find cover. It is
not recommended to leave the property by vehicle as this may cause a traffic
Jam which could put people in danger. It could also impede incoming emergency
vehicles. Attempt to let a supervisor or fellow worker know your status so that
everyone can be accounted for. Supervisors should designate a “Rally Point” for
employees to know in advance. Evacuation building maps should be posted for
critical incidents.
      (3)   Call 911 immediately and/or the Police. Give the 911 dispatcher the
following information:
         (a)   Your name
         (b)   Location of the Incident (be as specific as possible)
         (c)   Number of shooters (if known)
         (d)   Identification or description of shooter
         (e)   Number of persons who may be involved
         (f)   Your location
   (D)   Active Shooter When Not Able to Leave Facility. If you are directly
involved in an incident and exiting the building is not safe, the following
actions are recommended:
      (1)   Go to the nearest room or office.
      (2)   Close and lock the door.
      (3)   Cover the door windows.
      (4)   Keep quiet and act as if no one is in the room.
      (5)   DO NOT answer the door.
      (6)   Barricade the door (tables, chairs, vending machines, etc.)
      (7)   Notify 911
      (8)   Give the dispatcher the following information:
      (9)   Your name
      (10)   Your location (be as specific as possible)
      (11)   Number of shooters (if known)
      (12)   Identification or description of shooter
      (13)   Number of persons who may be involved
      (14)   Wait for local police to assist you out of the building.
      (15)   If the armed offender enters the room you are occupying, run, hide
and/or fight options are available to protect yourself. You may use deadly
force against the armed offender to save your own life.
   (E)   Police Response: Police are trained to respond to an active shooting
incident by entering the building as soon as possible and proceeding to the
area of the shooter(s). They will move quickly and directly. Early on in an
incident, they may not be able to rescue people because their main goal is to
get to the shooter(s). People need to try to remain calm and patient during
this time, so as not to interfere with police operations. Normally, a rescue
team is formed shortly after the first responding officers enter the building.
They will be the Officers who will search for injured parties and get everyone
safely out of the building.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.1 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ACKNOWLEDGEMENT FORM.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/IMAGES/0-0-0-4217.gif]
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This is to acknowledge that I have reviewed the Village of Romeoville Employee Handbook.
I understand:
•   The policies and benefits contained in this Handbook are subject to change and may be modified, amended, and/or terminated at any time by the
Village without advance notice.
•   I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS HANDBOOK IS NEITHER A CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT NOR A LEGAL DOCUMENT.
•   By my signature below I acknowledge that I have received the Handbook, and I understand that it is my responsibility to read and comply with the
policies contained in this handbook and any revisions made to it.
•   I will return the Handbook if my employment ends for any reason.
      Employee                                                                  Date                                                          
      Witness                                                               Date                                                                
 
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.2 SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY ACKNOWLEDGEMENT FORM.
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT AND REVIEW
   I have received and read a copy of the Village of Romeoville Social Media Policy and understand its contents. I understand that the Village of Romeoville expressly reserves the right to change, modify or delete provisions of the policy without notice.
Dated:                                                                                                                                         
                              [EMPLOYEE NAME]
 
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.3 DISCRIMINATION AND HARASSMENT POLICY ACKNOWLEDGMENT FORM.
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT AND UNDERSTANDING OF POLICY AGAINST
DISCRIMINATION AND HARASSMENT
Effective 3/19/2014 the Village of Romeoville implemented a Policy against Discrimination and Harassment.
Remember: It is your responsibility to read, understand, and abide by this policy and procedure, if you have any questions or concerns please speak to your supervisor or the Human Resources Manager. Please sign and date this memo to acknowledge that you have received and understand the
policy.
Please respond to the following questions, circle appropriate answer and initial.
Have you read, and do you understand this policy?                  Yes      No       Initials                           
Do you have any questions about this policy?                     Yes      No       Initials                           
Do you know how to file a complaint should                     Yes      No       Initials                           
you ever have a problem with discrimination,
harassment, or retaliation or if you see
inappropriate behaviors at work?
If you ever have a problem or concern regarding
discrimination, harassment, or retaliation in the                        1)                                                  
workplace, please list who within organization                        2)                                                  
you can address your concerns with:                              3)                                                  
                                             Initials                           
Are you aware of any behaviors going on either                  Yes      No       Initials                           
in our workplace or outside the workplace that
may impact the workplace and that are inconsistent
with this policy?
                                                                                                                                                
Employee Signature                           Date
                                                                         
Please print your name
I certify that the above person has received the Policy against Discrimination and Harassment and that I have reviewed this checklist with them.
                                                                                                                                        
Supervisor Signature                           Date
 
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.4 DISCRIMINATION AND HARASSMENT SIGN OFF SHEET.
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This is to acknowledge that I have reviewed the Village of Romeoville Anti-Harassment Policy
I understand:
   •   The policies are subject to change and may be modified, amended.
   •   By my signature below I acknowledge that I have received the Anti-Harassment Policy, and I understand that it is my responsibility to read and comply with the policies contained in this policy and any revisions made to it.
                                                                                                                                                
         Employee                                  Date
                                                                                                                                                
         Witness                                  Date
 
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.5 MOBILE WORKFORCE REQUEST FORM.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/IMAGES/0-0-0-4217.gif]
 
MOBILE WORKFORCE REQUEST FORM
Name                                                                              Title                                                                                                       
Department                                                                      Supervisor                                                                                               
Number of weeks I would like to do mobile working while on FMLA leave or sick leave                                                                        
Please describe how you think your job responsibilities are suited for telecommuting
                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
MOBILE WORKING APPLICANT
I have discussed mobile working with my supervisor and understand that my application does not guarantee that I will be eligible to telecommute. I have read the telecommuting policy and understand that telecommuting can be terminated at any time by the Village of Romeoville or me.
Applicants Signature                                                                                                  Date                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                        
SUPERVISOR
I have discussed the possibility of mobile working with the above-mentioned employee. I believe that this employee is a good candidate based on job responsibilities and performance in their current position.
Supervisors Signature                                                                                                Date                                           
HUMAN RESOURCES       Approval                                        Disapproval                                         
Reason
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Signature                                                                                                                  Date                                             
 
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.6 MOBILE WORKFORCE AGREEMENT FORM.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/IMAGES/0-0-0-4217.gif]
 
MOBILE AGREEMENT FORM
Name                                                                                       Title                                                                                             
Department                                                                         Supervisor                                                                                           
As a teleworker you must participate in a training program before beginning to telework. The training will focus on the telework policy, alternative workplace safety, work performance, and the telework agreement.
Duration
Please list the length of time you will be participating in the telework policy. Not to exceed 12 weeks.
FROM                                                                           TO                                                                                                         
Extension of the term require re-authorization by completing a new Telework agreement.
COMMUNICATION AND ACCESSIBILITY
Return calls and email promptly. Retrieve messages. Have all calls forwarded to you, or your voice mail.
List below the expectations as a supervisor that you will be requiring the employee to check in or contact you daily.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                             
                                             Employee Initials                                                                 Supervisor Initials
You will be given a Village Cell phone to use for business related calls.                                         Employee Initials
Telework is performed during assigned work hours, up to a specific number of days per week. The number of hours spent teleworking varies by employee. Telework does not change the number of hours and the employee is expected to work. Any changes in work hours are to be approved in advance by the supervisor, including request for overtime. Teleworkers who are not exempt from overtime will
be required to record all hours in a manner designated by the Village. Hours worked in excess of those specified per day and per week, in accordance with state and federal requirements, will require the advance approval of the supervisor. Failure to comply with this requirement can result in immediate cessation the telework agreement.
 
 
Hours to work daily and weekly:
Daily                                                                                 Employee Initials                                        Supervisor Initials
Weekly                                                                              Employee Initials                                        Supervisor Initials
Employee
Signature                                                                                                       Date                                                                           
Supervisor
Signature                                                                                                       Date                                                                           
Human Resources
Signature                                                                                                      Date                                                                           
 
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.7 VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE SEMINAR SUMMARY.
 
VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE
SEMINAR SUMMARY
(Fill Out Form for Each Session Attended)
Seminar/Conference Name:                                                                     
Date(s):                                                                              
Location:                                                                              
Session Topic/Name:                                                                        
Session Date:                                                                           
Session Time:                                                                           
Description of Material Presented (What you learned):
 
Description of Benefit to the Village (How you will use in your job what was learned):
 
 
 
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.8 TRAVEL AUTHORIZATION & EXPENSE REPORT 1.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4497.png]
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.9 TRAVEL EXPENSE REPORT 2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4499.png]
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.10 CREDIT CARD EXPENSE FORM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4503.png]
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.11 EDUCATIONAL PLAN FOR TUITION REIMBURSEMENT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4507.png]
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.12 TUITION REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4511.png]
 
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.13 OUTSIDE EMPLOYEE REQUEST FORM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4515.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4517.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4519.png]
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 18.14 OUTSIDE EMPLOYEE REQUEST FORM - POLICE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4523.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4525.png]
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 5-7-2025)
CHAPTER 38: EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
Section
   
38.01   Establishment
   
38.02   Coordinator; powers and duties
   
38.03   EMA functions
   
38.04   Emergency response team members
   
38.05   Mutual aid agreements
   
38.06   Village to cooperate with state
   
38.07   Compensation for training time
   
38.08   Reimbursement from state
   
38.09   President authorized to contract; Coordinator authorized to procure
necessary materials
   
38.10   Oath required
   
38.11   EMA Office authorized
   
38.12   Adoption of emergency operations guide
§ 38.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is created the Village Emergency Management Agency (EMA) to
prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from
natural or human-made disaster, in accordance with state statute.
   (B)   EMA shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members as
may be selected by the Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, see 20 ILCS 3305/1
§ 38.02 COORDINATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the Village EMA shall be appointed by the Village
President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees, and shall serve until
removed by the same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the EMA, subject to the direction and
control of the Village President and Village Manager as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Village President or any person designated by them
shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
§ 38.03 EMA FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   The EMA shall perform such EMA functions within the village as shall
be prescribed in and by the state EMA plan and program prepared by the
Governor, and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor. The EMA shall also perform duties within the village as designated by
the Village President and Village Manager. In addition, the EMA shall perform
such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to any
mutual aid agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality or
quasi-municipality entered into as provided in state statute.
   (B)   All or any members of the Village EMA organization may be designated
as members of a emergency response team created by the Director of the State
EMA as provided by law.
   (C)   The leader of the emergency responder team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the Village EMA organization.
(Prior Code, § 38.03) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, see 20 ILCS 3305/1
§ 38.04 EMERGENCY RESPONSE TEAM MEMBERS.
   Any member of a emergency response team who is a village employee or officer
while serving on calls to duty by the Governor or the State Director, shall
receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and immunities
incident to the employment or office. Any member who is not a paid officer or
employee of the village, while so serving, shall receive from the state
reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
§ 38.05 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   The Coordinator of EMA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities
or political subdivisions of the state, but no agreement shall be effective
until it has been approved by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 38.05) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
§ 38.06 VILLAGE TO COOPERATE WITH STATE.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack on the United States or the occurrence within the state of
a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or from
human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the Village EMA to
cooperate fully with the State EMA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 38.06) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
§ 38.07 COMPENSATION FOR TRAINING TIME.
   Members of the EMA, who are paid employees or officers of the village, if
called for training by the State Director of EMA, shall receive for the time
spent in training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held.
Members who are not village employees or officers shall receive compensation
for training time as may be established by the Village President and Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 38.07) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
§ 38.08 REIMBURSEMENT FROM STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the EMA as prescribed by the State Director of EMA, compensation for
services and expenses of members of a emergency response team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
EMA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident
to EMA activities as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 38.08) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
§ 38.09 PRESIDENT AUTHORIZED TO CONTRACT; COORDINATOR AUTHORIZED TO PROCURE
NECESSARY MATERIALS.
   (A)   The Village President, on recommendation of the Village Coordinator of
EMA, may authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the village in
a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the effects of
natural, human-made and technological hazards, and to protect the public health
and safety, protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the
case of such a disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the Village
Coordinator of EMA is authorized, on behalf of the village, to procure
services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary to handle a
disaster, in view of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or
formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or
obligations, as authorized by the State Emergency Services Management Agency
Act, 20 ILCS 3305/1. However, if the Village President and Board of Trustees
meets at such time the Coordinator shall act subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 38.09) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
§ 38.10 OATH REQUIRED.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village EMA
organization shall, before entering on their duties, subscribe to the following
oath, to be filed with the coordinator:
“I,                         , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the Romeoville ESDA organization, I will not
advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence.”
(Prior Code, § 38.10) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
§ 38.11 EMA OFFICE AUTHORIZED.
   The Village President is authorized to designate space in a village
building, or elsewhere as may be provided for by the Village President, for the
Village EMA Office, apparatus garage and emergency operations center.
(Prior Code, § 38.11) (Ord. 684, passed 6-6-1979)
§ 38.12 ADOPTION OF EMERGENCY OPERATIONS GUIDE.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Procedures Guide is adopted as the official
disaster preparedness plan for the village.
   (B)   The Emergency Services Coordinator is authorized to issue the current
release of the plan to individuals, groups and organizations who have been
identified in the plan.
   (C)   As the plan is a living document, the Emergency Services Coordinator
is authorized to make changes, corrections or updates to the plan as needed.
(Prior Code, § 38.14) (Res. 782-91, passed 9-4-1991)
CHAPTER 39: VILLAGE POLICY
Section
Policy Against Discrimination Based on Handicapped Status
   
39.001   Statement of policy
   
39.002   Grievance procedure
Clean Indoors Air Act
   
39.015   Adoption of Illinois Clean Indoors Act
   
39.016   Non-smoking facilities designated
Standard Specifications
   
39.030   Adoption of Standard Specifications
Use of Village Vehicles
   
39.045   Use of village vehicles
Chaplaincy Program
   
39.060   Established
Commemorative Program
   
39.075   Commemorative tree
   
39.076   Commemorative bench
   
39.077   Submittal of request
Cross-reference:
   Investment policy, see §§
36.025 through
36.032
**** POLICY AGAINST DISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAPPED STATUS ****
§ 39.001 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   The village advises the public, employees and job applicants that it
does not discriminate on the basis of handicapped status in admission or access
to, treatment or employment in its programs and activities.
   (B)   The Personnel and Payroll Coordinator is appointed to coordinate
efforts to comply with this requirement.
(Prior Code, § 40.01) (Res. 328-84, passed 5-2-1984)
§ 39.002 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   A grievance procedure shall be implemented by the village and a grievance
panel of seven members shall be selected for review and resolution of any
grievance filed with the Program Coordinator, as provided in § 504 of the
Federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973. A copy of the grievance procedure is on
file with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 40.02) (Res. 366-84, passed 10-17-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Section 504 of the Federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973, see 29 U.S.C. § 794
**** CLEAN INDOORS AIR ACT ****
§ 39.015 ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS CLEAN INDOORS ACT.
   It is ordained by the President and the Village Board of Trustees that
Public Act 86-1018, Illinois Clean Indoor Air Act, is herewith adopted in its
entirety by the village.
(Prior Code, § 40.10) (Ord. 2063-90, passed 9-5-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Smoke Free Illinois Act, see 410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.
§ 39.016 NON-SMOKING FACILITIES DESIGNATED.
   All buildings owned or under the control of the village are designated as
“non-smoking” facilities except for those well-ventilated areas which are
specifically designated as “smoking areas.”
(Prior Code, § 40.11) (Ord. 2064-90, passed 9-5-1990)
**** STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS ****
§ 39.030 ADOPTION OF STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Approval is granted and the Village President is authorized to sign,
and the Village Clerk attest thereto, the adoption of the standard
specifications for the village as presented in Exhibit A, as attached to Ord.
2147-92, passed January 8, 1992.
   (B)   Upon the development of new products contained within this document,
the Building Inspector, along with the concurrence from the Village Manager,
shall have the authority to substitute from time to time the newer products
pending an annual review and amendment before the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Should any provision or section of this section be declared invalid by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the
validity of this section as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so
declared to be invalid.
(Prior Code, § 40.20) (Ord. 2147-92, passed 1-8-1992; Ord. 2297-94, passed 11-
16-1994)
**** USE OF VILLAGE VEHICLES ****
§ 39.045 USE OF VILLAGE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Policy purpose. It is always a necessity for employees to utilize
village vehicles in conducting the day-to-day business of the village. It shall
be the policy of the village that the use of any village vehicle is a privilege
afforded certain employees, and not a right, and subject to this policy.
   (B)   Assignment.
      (1)   Each department manager shall have the authority to assign vehicles
to the service divisions within each respective department requiring a vehicle.
      (2)   No employee shall have an assigned vehicle (permanent or temporary)
for private use, or for travel to and from work, without express written
permission from the Village Administrator except in the following situations:
         (a)   Such use is permitted by an individual contractual agreement
with the village;
         (b)   Such use is provided as a benefit to a Department Manager and is
recognized as part of the individual’s compensation package. Use of the vehicle
by individuals covered by this section shall be limited to village business
only;
         (c)   The nature of work requires the operation of specialized
equipment carried in a village vehicle utilized for that purpose, and the
equipment must be at the disposal of the particular employee on short notice;
         (d)   The nature of work requires the following employees to be on 24-
hour call to respond to particular incident(s) during non-business hours or on
a frequent basis: Village Administrator, Fire Chief, Police Chief and Public
Works Director. These employees shall have use of an assigned vehicle 24 hours
per day and may use same at their discretion provided they do not go beyond a
20-mile radius from Village Hall;
         (e)   The Village Administrator/Department Manager may from time to
time permit employee(s) to use vehicles to travel to/from home to conduct pre-
determined village business during non-business hours (evening meetings and the
like); and
         (f)   If, in the opinion of the Village Administrator or Department
Manager, it is necessary for the health, safety and welfare of the village.
   (C)   Usage.
      (1)   Vehicles are to be used solely for village business, subject to the
above assignments.
         (a)   Any employee not covered under “Assignment” § 2 a/f, as of April
5, 1995, receiving transportation to or from their workplace on a regular basis
in a village vehicle will obtain their own transportation, other than a village
vehicle, effective immediately upon the approval and passage of this section.
         (b)   Transportation for any employee to or from their workplace will
be provided only on an emergency basis, subject to the availability of a
village vehicle and driver and approval from the respective Manager of the
employee’s department and/or the Village Administrator.
         (c)   Each event noted in division (C)(1)(b) above will be reported by
the respective Department Manager in writing to the Village Administrator
within 24 hours of said event. Each day requiring transportation will be
considered a separate event and a separate report shall be filed. The report
will include: employee name, nature of the emergency requiring transportation
for the employee and the approval by the respective Department Manager.
      (2)   Drivers of village vehicles shall comply with all laws concerning
vehicle operations including rules of the road and posted speed limits.
      (3)   The employee shall be responsible for resolving any ticket(s)
issued while operating a village vehicle. Resolution will be at the employee’s
own time and expense.
      (4)   If a vehicle is involved in any accident, the employee shall remain
on the scene until they have notified the local law enforcement agency,
completed any forms/reports required by law, and authorized to depart by said
local agency. The employee shall notify their immediate supervisor of the
accident by phone or upon return to their work site, whichever is more
expedient, and shall complete any paperwork related to the incident.
      (5)   Any employee driving a village vehicle in violation of applicable
laws (including revoked or suspended driver’s license) rules/regulations of
insurance/risk protection agencies or this policy may be subject to
disciplinary action.
      (6)   If it is more efficient in terms of productive use of time to have
authorized rest periods taken in the field or at the job site, it is
permissible to use village vehicles, immediately prior to scheduled break
periods, to pick up meals, coffee and the like for employees at the site.
      (7)   An employee on village business away from their normal business
location may take the vehicle to a nearby restaurant if it is more convenient
and less time consuming to eat in that area rather than return to the village.
      (8)   A village vehicle may be used to attend professional, social or
governmental association meetings, luncheons, dinners and the like if they are
representing the village in an official capacity and/or the village receives
direct benefit from the employee being at the function.
      (9)   Each employee authorized to have a village vehicle shall make said
vehicle available for emergency use whenever they are out of town or otherwise
unavailable at work.
   (D)   Operation.
      (1)   The employee is responsible for the vehicle’s condition and proper
operation. The interior and exterior shall be kept neat and clean and shall be
washed periodically or when necessary to present a professional image.
      (2)   Each driver shall conduct a routine inspection prior to daily use
to include, but not limited to: headlights, tail lights, seat belts, horn,
windshield, wipers, tires, brakes, turn signals and a weekly inspection of oil,
battery and general appearance.
      (3)   When the vehicle is not in service, it shall have the windows
rolled up, the doors locked, lights and radio off and shall be stored off the
street whenever possible.
      (4)   When transporting materials or equipment, every precaution shall be
taken to prevent items from being blown from or falling off the vehicle.
      (5)   The employee may make stops for personal reasons if it is on a
reasonably direct route between home and their work location.
      (6)   Only authorized village employees shall drive the vehicle, unless
an unforeseen emergency arises.
      (7)   It is expected each employee shall use sound judgement and logic in
the use of these privileges, as this policy can be amended and/or rescinded at
the sole discretion of the village and does not create any rights regarding use
or operation of a village vehicle.
   (E)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Faulty mechanical operation shall be reported immediately to the
Department Manager who shall issue a work order for repair of the vehicle.
      (2)   Public Works is responsible for scheduling regular preventative
maintenance of all village vehicles.
   (F)   Suspension. The Village Administrator and/or the Department Manager
may suspend or revoke these privileges from any employee found to be in
violation of any of the above.
(Prior Code, § 40.30) (Ord. 2379-95, passed 9-6-1995)
**** CHAPLAINCY PROGRAM ****
§ 39.060 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Chiefs of the Police and Fire Departments are authorized to
establish a chaplaincy program within their respective departments. Each
program shall have one primary chaplain and any additional chaplain assistants
as may be appointed by the President and Board of Trustees as are necessary to
make the program effective.
   (B)   Each chaplain and assistant chaplain shall be an ecclesiastically
certified person and shall serve a religious community in the village. Each
chaplain and assistant chaplain shall be required to participate in a formal
training program developed by the chief of each department when originally
appointed and on a continuing basis.
   (C)   All chaplains and assistant chaplains shall serve without
compensation. The village shall defend and indemnify all chaplains and
assistant chaplains for any civil claim or lawsuits filed against them for any
non-criminal act or omission arising out of their service to the village.
   (D)   Appointments to this position shall be for one year, effective June 1
and ending May 31 of the following year. Appointees shall serve until they are
reappointed or until someone is appointed.
(Prior Code, § 40.40) (Ord. 2468-97, passed 3-19-1997)
**** COMMEMORATIVE PROGRAM ****
§ 39.075 COMMEMORATIVE TREE.
   The commemorative tree provides for the planting of trees in village parks.
The tree variety is chosen by the village, based on the recommendation of the
Parks and Recreation Department, and donors can choose from this selection.
Trees will be approximately two and one-half-inches in diameter and a minimum
of six feet in height. The cost to the donor includes the purchase of the tree,
delivery, installation, commemorative brick paver (a brick paver with
inscription will be placed in front of the tree) and maintenance. The cost will
only cover the estimated life of the tree. The tree will be planted in a
village park with the final location selected by the Parks and Recreation
Department, based on the donor’s requests.
(Prior Code, § 40.60) (Res. 12-1523, passed 5-2-2012)
§ 39.076 COMMEMORATIVE BENCH.
   (A)   The commemorative bench provides for a new bench in the village parks.
The bench is selected by the village and is six feet long. The cost to the
donor includes the bench, installation, a commemorative plaque and maintenance.
The cost will only cover the estimated life of the bench. The bench will be
located in a village park with the final location selected by the Parks and
Recreation Department, based on the donor’s requests.
   (B)   The village may consider commemorative items not listed, if deemed
appropriate and feasible.
(Prior Code, § 40.61) (Res. 12-1523, passed 5-2-2012)
§ 39.077 SUBMITTAL OF REQUEST.
   The donor is requested to submit a request for a commemorative tree or bench
to the Parks and Recreation Department and provide additional information if
requested. The village reserves the right, at its discretion, to reject any
request that is not consistent with the intent and provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 40.62) (Res. 12-1523, passed 5-2-2012)
CHAPTER 40: ADMINISTRATIVE WARNING TICKETS
Section
   
40.01   Definition
   
40.02   Procedure
   
40.03   Use of arrest citation
   
Appendix A:   Table of Violations
   
Appendix B:   Arrest Citation/Non-Traffic Complaint
§ 40.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE WARNING TICKET.
      (1)   A courtesy ticket used in the case of certain minor ordinance
violations in lieu of arrest.
      (2)   ADMINISTRATIVE WARNING TICKETS may be used for those ordinance
violations listed in the appendix following this chapter and may be issued by
police officers, authorized Fire Department personnel and other authorized
village officers, including, but not limited to, Mayor or Village President,
Village Clerk and code enforcement officer.
      (3)   In addition, the Animal Warden shall likewise be permitted to issue
ADMINISTRATIVE WARNING TICKETS in such form as the Animal Warden may from time
to time be deemed efficient in connection with the Animal Warden’s performance
of their duties under the provisions of Chapter 90; subject to the foregoing,
the issuance of ADMINISTRATIVE WARNING TICKETS by the Animal Warden shall
otherwise be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   ARREST CITATION.
      (1)   An ARREST CITATION consists of an instrument substantially in the
form included in Appendix B to this chapter that is used for the purpose of
initiating either a judicial or an administrative case against a defendant for
the violation of certain village code provisions more specifically set forth in
the arrest citation form. The Chief of Police or their designee shall be
authorized to make such revisions to the arrest citation form as may be
required from time to time to comply with applicable law, to revise the scope
of village code violations to which the arrest citation procedure may be
applied or as needed for the efficient administration of the arrest citation
procedure.
      (2)   Sworn officers of the Village Police Department shall be authorized
to issue and use the arrest citation form in lieu of other available means of
enforcing violations of village code at its discretion when the same shall be
deemed to be in the best interests of providing efficient and effective law
enforcement services to the village. No village personnel other than sworn
officers of the Village Police Department shall be authorized to issue or
utilize the arrest citation form.
(Prior Code, § 42.01) (Ord. 1027-88, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 10-0845, passed 4-
7-2010; Ord. 17-1402, passed 9-20-2017)
§ 40.02 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   At the discretion of the officer or agent of the village authorized to
issue such administrative warning tickets, an administrative warning ticket may
be issued as a courtesy in lieu of arrest. These administrative warning tickets
shall only be used for those violations enumerated in the appendix following
this chapter.
   (B)   The administrative warning ticket shall be on a form substantially the
same as that attached to Ord. 1027-88, passed January 20, 1988; provided,
however, that the Chief of Police or their authorized designee shall from time
to time be authorized to make such changes to said ticket form as may be
necessary to comply with applicable law or as may be necessary for the
efficient administration of the administrative warning ticket program. Upon the
receipt of an administrative warning ticket issued as contemplated by this
chapter, the recipient thereof may, within 30 days of the date of the issuance
of the administrative warning ticket, admit liability and responsibility for
the violation set forth in such ticket by paying to the village the sum of $20
within such 30-day period, and demonstrating to the proper representatives of
the village that the ordinance violation alleged in the administrative warning
ticket no longer exists, and that all steps necessary to ensure compliance with
the applicable ordinances of the village have been taken. Such an admission of
liability and responsibility shall constitute a waiver of the right to a trial
or hearing on the administrative warning ticket. Notwithstanding any contrary
provision of this division (B), effective for administrative warning tickets
issued on or after May 1, 2010, the amount of the fee required to be paid in
connection with the above-contemplated admission of liability and
responsibility and demonstration of compliance shall be $30.
   (C)   If the person accused of said violation does not settle the claim
including both the payment of the administration fee and compliance, where
required, a complaint or notice to appear in court will be issued for said
violation and the person shall be subject to the fines and penalties set forth
in the applicable provisions of this code.
   (D)   The ordinance provisions of the village that shall be subject to the
administrative warning tickets are listed in the appendix following the
chapter. In addition to all such ordinances enumerated in the appendices to
this chapter, any provision of the following adopted codes shall also be
enforceable pursuant to the procedure outlined in this chapter:
      (1)   The International Building Code, 2021 Edition, and all of its
additions, insertions, deletions and all its referenced standards as delineated
in Chapter 150;
      (2)   The National Electrical Code, being particularly the 2020 edition,
as adopted in
Chapter 150;
      (3)   The 2014 Illinois Plumbing Code and all of its additions,
insertions, deletions and all its referenced standards as delineated in
Chapter 150;
      (4)   The 2021 International Mechanical Code and all its additions,
insertions, deletions and all its referenced standards as delineated in
Chapter 150;
      (5)   “The Standard Specifications” as developed by the village and
adopted in
Chapter 150;
      (6)   The International Property Maintenance Code and all of its
additions, insertions and deletions as adopted in
Chapter 151;
      (7)   
Chapter 156, entitled “Development Regulations;” and
      (8)   
Chapter 157, entitled “Zoning Code.”
(Prior Code, § 42.02) (Ord. 1027-88, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 2232-93, passed 7-
21-1993; Ord. 2486-97, passed 7-2-1997; Ord. 2671-99, passed 6-21-1999; Ord.
03-0077, passed 11-5-2003; Ord. 10-0845, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 40.03 USE OF ARREST CITATION.
   Sworn officers of the Village Police Department may use the arrest citation
form and procedure at its discretion, whenever the same is deemed to be in the
best interests of the provision of efficient and effective law enforcement
services to the village. In the event that an issued arrest citation is not
settled or resolved as permitted by and in accordance with the terms set forth
within the arrest citation, the village shall proceed to prosecute the
underlying ordinance violation with the local Village Branch Court of the
Circuit Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit, or to prosecute the underlying
ordinance violation under the provisions of Chapter 41 as an administrative
hearing matter.
(Prior Code, § 42.03) (Ord. 17-1402, passed 9-20-2017)
APPENDIX A: TABLE OF VIOLATIONS
CHAPTER 50
SECTION:         
50.031   Quantity and quality of water supply; liability
            
50.066   Limitations on use of sprinkling devices
CHAPTER 71
SECTION:         
71.067   Stop and yield signs
            
71.100   Limitations on backing
            
71.101   Obstruction of driver’s view or driving mechanism
            
71.102   Opening vehicle doors
            
71.103   Riding in towed vehicles
            
71.104   Coasting
            
71.105   Following fire apparatus
            
71.106   Crossing fire hose
            
71.107   Driving upon sidewalk or in safety zone
            
71.108   Putting hazardous materials on highway
            
71.109   Obstructing highways
            
71.110   Violation of controlled-access highway restrictions
            
71.111   Off-street operation of motor vehicles and motorcycles on public and
private property
            
71.112   Excessive noise from motor vehicle or motorcycle operation prohibited
CHAPTER 73
SECTION:         
73.12   Repairing vehicle on the streets
CHAPTER 74
SECTION:         
74.015   When lighted lamps are required
            
74.016   Clearance, identification and side marker lamps
            
74.017   Lamps on parked vehicles
            
74.018   Lamps on other vehicles and equipment
            
74.019   Display of amber signal lamp required for slow-moving vehicles
            
74.020   Spot lamps and auxiliary driving lamps
            
74.023   Dimming of headlamps
            
74.024   Lamp or flag on projecting load
            
74.025   Signal lamps and signal devices
            
74.027   Number of driving lamps required or permitted
            
74.040   Brakes
            
74.041   Brake fluid
            
74.055   Restrictions as to tire equipment
            
74.059   Operating conditions of pneumatic tires
            
74.070   Safety glazing materials in motor vehicles
            
74.071   Mirrors
            
74.072   Windshields must be unobstructed and equipped with wipers
            
74.085   Horns and warning devices
            
74.086   Mufflers; prevention of noise
            
74.087   Seat safety belts
            
74.088   Suspension system
            
74.089   Bumpers
            
74.090   Video devices
            
74.091   Headset receivers
            
74.092   Disposal of motor vehicles bearing police markings
            
74.093   Sound amplification systems in motor vehicles
CHAPTER 76
SECTION:         
76.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic-control devices and traffic regulations
            
76.02   Pedestrian obedience to bridge and railroad signals
            
76.03   Pedestrians’ right-of-way at crosswalks
            
76.04   Pedestrians to use right-half of crosswalks
            
76.05   Pedestrians crossing at other than crosswalks
            
76.06   Pedestrians’ right-of-way on sidewalks
            
76.07   Pedestrian with disabilities; right-of-way
            
76.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
            
76.09   Pedestrians to yield to authorized emergency vehicles
            
76.10   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
CHAPTER 77
SECTION:         
77.01   Application of regulations
            
77.02   Bicycle defined
            
77.03   Equipment
            
77.04   Passengers on bicycles
            
77.05   Riding on right
            
77.06   Bikeway availability
            
77.07   Signals for indicating turns
            
77.08   Emerging from alley or driveway
            
77.09   Riding on sidewalk
            
77.10   Clinging to moving vehicles; towing
            
77.11   Endangering persons or property; excessive speed
            
77.12   Traffic-control devices
            
77.13   Riding single file
            
77.14   Transporting articles or goods
            
77.15   Parking
            
77.16   Duty of parent or guardian
            
77.30   Lamps on mopeds
            
77.33   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles, motor driven cycles
or mopeds
            
77.34   Required equipment on motorcycles
CHAPTER 90
SECTION:         
90.001   License required
            
90.002   Applications
            
90.004   License tags
            
90.005    Running at large prohibited; enclosures, leashes or restraints
required
            
90.006   Female dogs in heat to be confined
            
90.007   Impounding dogs
            
90.008   Redeeming impounded dogs
            
90.020   Confinement required
            
90.022   Infected animals biting persons
            
90.023   Animals under quarantine
            
90.024   Killing rabid animals; removing animals from village limits
            
90.025   Physician’s and veterinarian’s reports
            
90.040   Animals disturbing neighborhood
            
90.041   Animals prohibited from village
            
90.043   Limitation of animals
            
90.045   Animals running at large
            
90.047   Tethering, extreme weather; animal cruelty in presence of child
            
90.049    Vicious dog requirements
            
90.051    Dangerous dog requirements
            
90.053    Nuisance dog requirements
            
90.057   Obstructing impoundment
            
90.058   Unlawful entry into the pound
            
90.059   Animal waste
            
90.070   Cruelty to animals prohibited
            
90.072   Poisoning domestic animals
CHAPTER 91
SECTION:         
91.30    Fireworks display permits
CHAPTER 92
SECTION:         
92.115   Weeds prohibited
            
92.116   Heights of grass and weeds limited
CHAPTER 93
SECTION:         
93.04   Protection and use of Department property
            
93.05   Personal conduct and behavior within or upon Department property
            
93.06   Motor vehicles
            
93.07   Department property use by permit - general use permit
CHAPTER 114
SECTION:         
114.04   Registration required
            
114.07   Prohibited acts
CHAPTER 132
SECTION:          
132.048   Criminal trespass to real property
CHAPTER 134
SECTION:         
134.01   Disorderly conduct
            
134.46   Curfew
CHAPTER 136
SECTION:          
136.26   Dumping of litter prohibited; exemptions
            
136.27   Dumping litter from motor vehicles; private use of public receptacles
            
136.28   Dumping litter from motor vehicles; presumption
            
136.29   Accumulation of litter prohibited
            
136.30   Placing and maintenance of litter receptacles in places open to the
public
            
136.31   Abandonment of motor vehicle; presumption
            
136.65   Possession by minors prohibited
CHAPTER 137
SECTION:         
137.21   Sale or transfer to minors
            
137.22   Possession of firing devices and projectiles
CHAPTER 150
SECTION:         
150.09   Building permit construction specifications
CHAPTER 153
SECTION:         
153.15   Registration of rental properties
            
153.16   Rental occupancy inspections requirements
            
153.17   Certificate of occupancy
            
153.18   Application for certificate of occupancy
            
153.19   Permit fees
            
153.30   Inspections
            
153.32   Issuance or withholding of occupancy
            
153.33    Certificates of occupancy/rental inspections for multi-unit complexes
            
153.34   Expiration or revocation of a certificate
            
153.35    Compliance required
(Prior Code, Ch. 42, App. A) (Ord. 1027-88, passed 1-20-1988; Ord. 1035-88,
passed 6-15-1988; Ord. 1058-88, passed 8-17-1988; Ord. 2022-89, passed 8-2-
1989; Ord. 2031-89, passed 10-4-1989; Ord. 2486-97, passed 7-2-1997; Ord. 2500-
97, passed 9-17-1997; Ord. 0045-02, passed 7-3-2002; Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-
2003; Ord. 0023-03, passed 3-19-2003; Ord. 17-1387, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 18-
1531, passed 12-19-2018)
APPENDIX B: ARREST CITATION/NON-TRAFFIC COMPLAINT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4531.png]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 42, App. B)
CHAPTER 41: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION AND REVIEW
Section
   
41.01   Purpose
   
41.02   Adoption
   
41.03   Jurisdiction
   
41.04   Code Hearing Department
   
41.05   Hearing procedures not exclusive
   
41.06   Composition of Code Hearing Department
   
41.07   Hearing officer
   
41.08   Code enforcement officers
   
41.09   Hearing clerks
   
41.10   Warning notice
   
41.11   Hearing notice
   
41.12   Subpoenas
   
41.13   Default
   
41.14   Petition to vacate default order
   
41.15   Continuances
   
41.16   Representation at code hearings
   
41.17   Hearings
   
41.18   Evidence
   
41.19   Findings, decision and order
   
41.20   Administrative action appeal hearing procedures
   
41.21   Order and sanction attach to property
   
41.22   Judicial review
   
41.23   Debt to village
   
41.24   Enforcement of judgment
   
41.25   Eviction, rights of occupants
   
Appendix A:   Matters Subject to Chapter 41 Administrative Hearing Procedures
   
Appendix B:   Minimum Fine Schedule for Selected Ordinance Violations
§ 41.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the fair and efficient
enforcement of designated village ordinances, as may be allowed by law and
directed by ordinance, through an administrative adjudication of violations of
such village ordinances, the establishment of a hearing process for the review
of designated administrative actions taken by the village and the establishment
of fines and penalties relating thereto and procedures for the collection of
any unpaid fines and penalties.
(Prior Code, § 42A.01) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.02 ADOPTION.
   To accomplish the foregoing purpose, the village adopts Division 2.1 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., in its current form and as
it may be amended from time to time for adjudication of village ordinance
violations and the conduct of hearings to review administrative actions taken
by the village.
(Prior Code, § 42A.02) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.03 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The matters subject to the administrative adjudication system provided
for by this chapter shall include those violations of village ordinances set
forth in
Appendix A to this chapter and hearings for the review of the administrative
actions set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter. In addition, the administrative adjudication and
review procedures set forth in this chapter shall also apply to and govern the
conduct of hearings required by the applicable ordinances of the village or
laws of the state or the United States, where the provisions of such ordinances
or laws do not otherwise provide a procedure for the conduct of the requisite
hearing on the matter at issue.
   (B)   The following listed ordinance violations shall be and are expressly
excluded from the administrative adjudication system provided for by this
chapter, and shall be prosecuted through cases filed in the 12th Judicial
Circuit Court, or as otherwise provided for in this code of ordinances or
applicable state law:
      (1)   Any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et
seq. or this code of ordinances governing the movement of vehicles;
      (2)   Any reportable offense under 625 ILCS 5/6-204;
      (3)   Violations punishable by penalty of incarceration;
      (4)   Violations punishable by a fine in excess of $50,000 per violation
not including allowable costs; provided, however, that the maximum fine amount
of $50,000 does not apply to cases brought to enforce the collection of any tax
imposed and collected by the village;
      (5)   Any violations of
Chapter 112 pertaining to alcoholic beverages or licenses; and
      (6)   Any other proceedings not within the statutory home rule authority
of municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 42A.03) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.04 CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT.
   There is established a Code Hearing Department, the function of which is to
expedite the adjudication of ordinance violations and review of village
administrative actions.
(Prior Code, § 42A.04) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.05 HEARING PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Administrative adjudication procedures are not exclusive. The adoption by
the village of the system of administrative adjudication set forth in this
chapter does not preclude the village from using other methods to enforce
village ordinances. The village shall, at its discretion, determine the
enforcement procedure for any given violation on a case-by-case basis.
(Prior Code, § 42A.05) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.06 COMPOSITION OF CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Code Hearing Department shall consist of one or more hearing
officers, and one or more hearing clerks, as deemed necessary by the village
from time to time.
   (B)   The Village President is authorized to appoint all hearing officers of
the village. The Village Chief of Police shall be authorized to designate one
or more Police Department personnel to serve as hearing clerks.
(Prior Code, § 42A.06) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.07 HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   Administrative hearings shall be presided over by hearing
officers.
      (2)   The powers and duties of a hearing officer shall include:
         (a)   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the code violation or the administrative action under review or
appeal;
         (b)   Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give
relevant testimony at a hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
         (c)   Issuing and signing a determination, based on the evidence
presented at the hearing, of whether a code violation exists, or whether the
administrative action under review or appeal should be upheld. The
determination shall be in writing and shall include a written finding of fact,
decision and order including any fine, penalty or action with which the
defendant must comply; and
         (d)   1.   Imposing penalties and fines consistent with applicable
code provisions and assessing applicable costs or fees upon finding a party
liable for the charged violation, except, however, that in no event shall the
hearing officer have authority to:
               a.   Impose a penalty of incarceration;
               b.   Impose a fine in excess of $50,000;
               c.   In cases where a violation has been proven impose a fine in
any amount less than $50,000 or such mandatory minimum fine amount prescribed
by any provision of this code, including, but not limited to, the mandatory
minimum fines for initial and subsequent violations of certain village
ordinances included in Appendix B to this chapter; or
               d.   Without the consent of the village, reduce or waive any
applicable cost of enforcement, cost of compliance, administrative fee or
hearing fee to any amount less than the amount established by this chapter or
any other applicable provision of this code.
            2.   The maximum monetary fine amount imposed hereunder shall not
be applicable to cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed (together
with applicable interest and penalties thereon) and collected by the village.
In addition to the maximum monetary fine, the hearing officer may also impose
any costs of enforcement, costs imposed to secure compliance with the village’s
ordinances and the costs of conducting the administrative hearing;
         (e)   Administering oaths and affirmations to witnesses; and
         (f)   Such other powers and duties as may be necessary to effectuate
the purposes of this chapter and the enforcement thereof.
   (B)   Prior to their appointment, hearing officers shall have successfully
completed a formal training program which includes the following:
      (1)   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearing
which they will conduct;
      (2)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that they
will adjudicate;
      (3)   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      (4)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
   (C)   The hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the state for at least three years.
(Prior Code, § 42A.07) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.08 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   Code enforcement officers shall include all village employees authorized or
directed by any applicable provisions of this code to determine whether
violations of village ordinances exist, and to initiate enforcement proceedings
in cases where a violation of village ordinances exists, including by issuing
warning notices under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 42A.08) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.09 HEARING CLERKS.
   Hearing clerks shall be responsible for the management and administration of
all records pertaining to administrative adjudication and review hearings
conducted under this chapter, including, but not limited to, issuing notices of
violations; scheduling and providing notices of hearing dates; maintaining
records of fine, penalty and costs assessments and payments; maintaining
records of appearances at administrative hearings; preserving and
authenticating the record of the hearing; and all exhibits and evidence
introduced at the hearing and maintaining records of the orders and judgments
of the hearing officer. Hearing clerks may also be assigned such other duties
from time to time as may be necessary to the efficient conduct of
administrative hearings under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 42A.09) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.10 WARNING NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   An original warning notice regarding each ordinance violation to
be enforced under this chapter shall be issued by the persons authorized under
this chapter, except as otherwise hereinafter set forth, and except that all
vehicle impoundment matters shall be subject to the hearing notice provisions
set forth in §
78.38.
      (2)   The original warning notice shall describe the offending conduct
and shall contain at least the following information:
         (a)   The date and place of the violation, including a description of
the activity or conduct alleged to constitute the violation or the underlying
facts giving rise to the violation;
         (b)   The particular ordinance violated/ violation charged;
         (c)   The vehicle make and state registration number, if applicable;
         (d)   The name, village department and position and badge/
identification number of the person issuing the notice;
         (e)   A date by which the violation shall be brought into compliance,
which date shall be established as hereinafter provided, subject to the
potential extension of such date as hereinafter provided, and a statement that,
after such compliance date, further enforcement action with respect to such
violation shall only be avoided by:
            1.   The payment to the village of a fine of $50; and
            2.   The abatement of the violation and presentation to the village
of an affidavit and agreement of compliance and hearing waiver with respect to
such violation.
         (f)   The name and address of the person or entity responsible for the
alleged ordinance violation(s), except that the name of such person or entity
may be omitted from any warning notice being served by posting upon the
property as permitted by division (B)(3) below;
         (g)   A statement advising that payment of the specified fine, and the
submission of an affidavit and agreement of compliance and hearing waiver shall
result in the dismissal of any scheduled administrative adjudication hearing on
the alleged violation provided that the payment, affidavit and waiver are
received by the village not less than 14 calendar days prior to any scheduled
administrative adjudication hearing date, and provided further that the village
reserves the right in all cases to investigate and verify compliance and all
matters presented in an affidavit and agreement of compliance, and to reject
any affidavit and agreement of compliance or purported compliance efforts in
any case where such investigation reveals the same to be incomplete,
inaccurate, false or misleading; and
         (h)   A statement advising that the failure to make payment of the
specified fine, abate the violation and to submit an acceptable affidavit and
agreement of compliance and hearing waiver not less than 14 calendar days prior
to any scheduled administrative adjudication hearing date shall result in the
conduct of an administrative adjudication hearing on the matter in accordance
with this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, information on original
warning notices issued by the village and intended to be affixed to an
unlawfully parked, unlawfully standing or noncompliant vehicle or handed to the
operator thereof shall be limited to the items set forth above in divisions (A)
(2)(a) through (A)(2)(e) above.
   (B)   Service of any original violation warning notice pursuant to this
chapter shall be made by:
      (1)   Handing the notice to the person responsible for the ordinance
violation;
      (2)   Handing the notice to any person 13 years of age or older at the
residence of the person responsible for the ordinance violation and mailing the
warning notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to that person;
      (3)   Posting the warning notice upon the property where the violation is
found when the person responsible for the violation is the owner, occupant or
manager of the property;
      (4)   For parking, standing or vehicle compliance warning notices, by
affixing the original or a facsimile of the warning notice to the unlawfully
parked, unlawfully standing or noncompliant vehicle or by handing the warning
notice to the operator of the vehicle if present; or
      (5)   By any other methods permitted under the Illinois Code of Civil
Procedure or the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (C)   All full-time police officers, all code enforcement officers and the
Animal Warden, as well as other individuals authorized by the Chief of Police
from time to time, shall have the authority to issue ordinance violation
warning notices under this chapter; without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, employees of the Village Department of Community Development shall
be authorized to issue ordinance violation warning notices under this chapter
for violations arising under Chapters 58, 92 and 150, and for violations
arising under
Chapter 151 not involving single-family residential properties. Any individual
authorized to issue warning notices and who detects an ordinance violation is
authorized to issue a warning notice thereof and shall make service thereof in
the manner set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Unless otherwise provided for under the code, upon failure of the
person responsible for the ordinance violation under this chapter to pay any
applicable fee, fine or penalty and submit an acceptable affidavit and
agreement of compliance and hearing waiver within the time set forth in the
original warning notice or within any extension of such time granted by the
village as contemplated by this chapter, the village shall proceed to schedule
and/or conduct an administrative adjudication hearing on the alleged ordinance
violation as set forth in §
41.11.
   (E)   The correctness of facts contained in any warning notice shall be
verified by the person serving the notice by signing his name to the notice at
the time of issuance of the warning notice.
   (F)   The original or a facsimile of each warning notice shall be retained
by the village and kept as a record in the ordinary course of business.
   (G)   Any warning notice or any hearing notice issued, signed and served in
accordance with this chapter, or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie
correct and shall constitute prima facie evidence of the correctness of the
facts shown on the notice.
   (H)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all warning notices
issued prior to the potential initiation of administrative hearings under this
chapter.
   (I)   (1)   Code enforcement officers shall have the discretion to establish
the date in any warning notice by which an ordinance violation shall be brought
into compliance, and to authorize extensions of such compliance dates in cases
where the person or entity receiving the warning notice has made reasonable
progress toward achieving compliance, or where circumstances beyond the
reasonable control of such person or entity exist that hinder, prevent or delay
the ability of such person or entity to achieve compliance or reasonable
progress toward compliance. In establishing any compliance date included within
a warning notice or in evaluating potential or requested extensions of any
previously established compliance date, including requests for continuances of
administrative hearings as contemplated by §
41.15, code enforcement officers shall consider the following factors:
         (a)   Time of year/weather conditions for violations requiring outdoor
corrective action;
         (b)   Time period required to retain a contractor and/or obtain
necessary equipment, materials or supplies;
         (c)   Health conditions or disability status of the person responsible
for a violation;
         (d)   Extent to which any violation threatens the health, safety and
welfare of the public, and the immediacy and severity of any such threat;
         (e)   Financial ability of or resources available to the person or
entity to support efforts to achieve compliance;
         (f)   Any other personal or family circumstances affecting a person’s
ability to achieve compliance; and
         (g)   The number and length of any previous extensions to an
established compliance date previously granted to a person or entity.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the initial compliance date for any
violation of §§
92.115 or
92.116, or any violation of § 302.4 of the International Property Maintenance
Code as adopted by Chapters 150 and 151 shall be three days from the date of
the notice of violation; provided, however, that any extension of such date
shall be evaluated and considered in light of the factors set forth above.
   (J)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this section, the provisions
of this section shall only require the issuance and service of a warning notice
in cases where the nature of the violation is such that it is capable of being
abated by the action of the party responsible for such violation (i.e.,
violations that exist as of the date of the warning notice and which will
continue to exist absent the taking of the corrective action necessary to bring
the same into compliance). In any case where a violation occurs that is within
the scope of ordinance provisions/violations set forth in Appendix A to this
chapter, but which is not by its nature a continuing violation, a code
enforcement officer shall have the authority and discretion to proceed directly
to the issuance of a hearing notice under §
41.11 without the prior issuance of a warning notice. Additionally, in any case
where the party responsible for a violation has previously received two or more
warning notices within any given one-year period, a code enforcement officer
shall likewise have the authority and discretion to proceed directly to the
issuance of a hearing notice under §
41.11 without the prior issuance of a warning notice, and provided further,
however, that notwithstanding any other contrary provision of this chapter, any
such hearing notice may provide:
      (1)   That the recipient of the hearing notice under such circumstances
(i.e., without the prior issuance of a warning notice) shall be required to
appear for a hearing on the matter at the date and time set forth in the
hearing notice, and shall not have the option to compromise or resolve the
matter without a hearing as otherwise provided for in this chapter, or
alternatively; and
      (2)   That the recipient of the hearing notice under such circumstances
(i.e., without the prior issuance of a warning notice) shall have the option to
avoid the conduct of a hearing as set forth in §
41.11.
(Prior Code, § 42A.10) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019; Ord. 23-1855, passed 6-21-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Code of Civil Procedure, see 735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
   Illinois Municipal Code, see 65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.
§ 41.11 HEARING NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon failure of any person responsible for an ordinance
violation to bring such violation into compliance within the time provided for
in any warning notice served on such person, including any extension of such
time approved as contemplated by this chapter, the village shall cause a
hearing notice to be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the person
responsible for the ordinance violation. Service of the hearing notice sent in
accordance herewith shall be complete as of the date of deposit in the United
States Mail.
      (2)   The hearing notice shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name of the party violating the ordinance, if known;
         (b)   The date and place of the violation;
         (c)   The particular ordinance violated;
         (d)   The fine and penalty which may be assessed for late payment;
         (e)   The signature and identification number of the person issuing
the notice;
         (f)   Information that the person responsible for the ordinance
violation must appear on the date and at the time and place as specified in the
hearing notice;
         (g)   The date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which
the alleged violation may be contested on its merits, which date shall be not
less than 15 calendar days from the date of service of the hearing notice;
         (h)   The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is
to be held and the penalties for failure to appear at the hearing;
         (i)   A statement that the conduct of a hearing on the ordinance
violation at issue, a final determination of liability for the cited violation
in the amount of the fine and penalty and hearing costs and further enforcement
action pursuant thereto shall only be avoided by:
            1.   The payment to the village of a fine of $50; and
            2.   The abatement of the violation and presentation to the village
of an affidavit and agreement of compliance and hearing waiver with respect to
such violation, on or before that date which is 14 days prior to the hearing
date scheduled in the matter.
         (j)   A statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
liability and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, available
administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or penalty or
hearing cost will constitute a debt due and owing to the village.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all hearing notices for
the conduct of administrative hearings under this chapter, unless another
provision of this code shall specify a different procedure for the issuance of
a hearing notice, in which case such other provision shall apply; without
otherwise limiting the generality of the foregoing, the form, timing and manner
of service of hearing notices for hearings on vehicle impoundments shall comply
with and be governed by §
78.38.
(Prior Code, § 42A.11) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019; Ord. 23-1855, passed 6-21-2023)
§ 41.12 SUBPOENAS.
   At any time prior to the hearing date, parties may request the hearing
officer to issue, and the hearing officer shall have the authority to issue,
subpoenas to direct the attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and
produce relevant documents.
(Prior Code, § 42A.12) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.13 DEFAULT.
   If on the date set for the hearing the defendant or their attorney fails to
appear, the hearing officer may find the violator in default and shall proceed
with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a code
violation.
(Prior Code, § 42A.13) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.14 PETITION TO VACATE DEFAULT ORDER.
   (A)   After entry of an order finding the defendant in default and liable
pursuant to §
41.13, the hearing officer shall not hear a petition to vacate said default
unless the defendant first pays a $30 administrative fee to the village. Said
administrative fee shall be due when the violator files a petition for vacating
a default order.
   (B)   A hearing officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and
set a new hearing date upon a petition filed within 21 calendar days after the
issuance of the order of default if the hearing officer determines that the
petitioner’s failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause, or at any
time if the petitioner establishes that the village did not provide proper
service of process.
(Prior Code, § 42A.14) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.15 CONTINUANCES.
   No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing officer in proceedings
under this chapter except for good cause shown, and in cases where a
continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the violator, and
also in any case where a continuance to provide an opportunity for compliance
has been agreed to between the village and the person or entity alleged to be
responsible for the ordinance violation at issue. Lack of preparation shall not
be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized by a hearing officer
under this chapter shall be at the discretion of the hearing officer.
(Prior Code, § 42A.15) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.16 REPRESENTATION AT CODE HEARINGS.
   The case for the village may be presented by an attorney designated by the
village or by any other village employee. In no event, however, may the case
for the village by presented by an employee of the Code Hearing Department. The
case for the violator may be presented by the violator or the violator’s
attorney. If the violator is a corporation or legal entity, it shall appear
through its attorney. Attorneys representing violators in administrative
hearings under this chapter shall file a written appearance on a form provided
for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 42A.16) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.17 HEARINGS.
   All hearings conducted under the administrative hearing system shall be
conducted by a hearing officer and shall be in accordance with the following
rules and procedures.
   (A)   The date, time and place shall be set forth in the hearing notice;
provided that for hearings scheduled in all non-emergency situations, the
violator shall have at least 15 calendar days after service of a hearing notice
to prepare for a hearing, unless otherwise provided in any applicable provision
of this code creating a right to a hearing. No hearing shall be scheduled or
convened more than 45 calendar days from the date of service of a hearing
notice. For purposes of this section, NON-EMERGENCY SITUATION means any
situation that does not reasonably constitute a threat to the public interest,
safety, health or welfare. If service is provided by mail, the 14-day period
shall begin to run on the date that the notice is deposited in the mail.
Hearings to be scheduled for situations other than non-emergency situations
shall be scheduled at the earliest possible date, except that the violator in
an emergency hearing situation shall have at least three calendar days after
service of a notice to prepare for a hearing, unless otherwise provided in any
applicable provision of the village code creating a right to a hearing.
   (B)   The hearings shall be audio recorded.
   (C)   Each hearing shall culminate in a determination of liability or
nonliability by the hearing officer, or a determination of liability based upon
the failure of the violator to appear at the scheduled hearing, whichever
occurs first. In the case of a hearing on the impoundment of a vehicle under
Chapter 78, the hearing officer shall make a determination sustaining or
overruling the impoundment of the vehicle.
   (D)   Pursuant to, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
41.07, the hearing officer shall, upon a determination of liability, have the
discretion to assess fines and penalties in accordance with this code, assess
interest charges for late payments and order the violator to undertake
corrective actions to remedy the violation. In addition, pursuant to, and
subject to the limitations set forth in §
41.07, the hearing officer shall assess administrative hearing costs upon
finding a violator liable for the charged violation in an amount not less than
$50. In no event shall the hearing officer have authority to impose a penalty
of incarceration or impose a fine in excess of $50,000 for a violation. In the
event that the administrative hearing concerns the merits of an impoundment of
a vehicle under Chapter 78, the hearing officer shall, upon a determination
that sustains the impoundment of the vehicle, enter an order forfeiting any
administrative fee or bond paid or posted under Chapter 78 to the village, and
shall, upon a determination that overturns the impoundment of the vehicle,
enter an order requiring the village to reimburse any administrative fee paid
to the village under Chapter 78 and to release any bond paid to the village to
secure the release of any vehicle impounded under Chapter 78, all to the party
having paid or posted the same.
   (E)   The maximum monetary fine imposed hereunder shall not be applicable to
cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed (together with applicable
interest and penalties thereon) and collected by the village. In addition to
the maximum monetary fine, the hearing officer may also impose any costs of
enforcement, costs imposed to secure compliance with the village’s ordinances
and the costs of conducting the administrative hearing.
   (F)   Hearing room personnel, who shall be sworn law enforcement officers of
the village, shall be designated and appointed by the Village Chief of Police
and shall be authorized and directed to:
      (1)   Maintain hearing room order and decorum; and
      (2)   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required and
as directed by the hearing officer.
(Prior Code, § 42A.17) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.18 EVIDENCE.
   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in any hearing
conducted under this chapter. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only
if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the
conduct of their affairs.
(Prior Code, § 42A.18) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.19 FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER.
   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination on the basis of evidence presented at the hearing whether or not
an ordinance violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall
be designated as findings, decision and order. The findings, decision and order
shall include the hearing officer’s findings of fact, a decision whether or not
an ordinance violation exists based upon the findings of facts, an order
imposing a fine or penalty as provided for by applicable provisions of the
village code where an ordinance violation is found to exist, an order requiring
the abatement of any ordinance violation determined to exist or an order
dismissing the case in the event a violation is not proved. Where applicable,
the order shall also impose any costs of enforcement, costs imposed to secure
compliance with the village code and the costs of conducting the administrative
hearing. A copy of the findings, decision and order of the hearing officer
shall be served on the party within seven calendar days after it is issued, in
the same manner prescribed by this chapter for the service of the hearing
notice.
(Prior Code, § 42A.19) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.20 ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION APPEAL HEARING PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the applicable provisions of the village code provide for
a right of any person or entity to appeal any administrative action taken or
any decision made by any village personnel charged with the administration,
enforcement or application of any provisions of the village code, or where such
a right to appeal is required by any other provision of applicable law, such
person or entity may take such an appeal by filing a written notice of appeal
with the hearing officer and the village personnel from whose action or
decision the appeal is taken, which notice shall specify the grounds for the
appeal. The notice of appeal shall be served on the hearing officer and the
village personnel from whose action or decision the appeal is taken by first
class mail, postage prepaid, within 30 calendar days from the date of the
action or decision from which the appeal is taken. Service of the appeal notice
sent in accordance herewith shall be complete as of the date of deposit in the
United States Mail. Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the hearing clerk
shall schedule the appeal for a hearing before the hearing officer at the next
scheduled hearing date which is not less than ten calendar days nor more than
45 calendar days from the date of service of the appeal notice, and the village
personnel from whose action or decision the appeal is taken shall transmit all
documents and papers used in making the decision or taking the action which is
the subject of the appeal, and transmit the same to the hearing clerk and the
hearing officer. A notice of appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance
of the action or decision from which the appeal is taken, unless the village
personnel whose action or decision is the subject of the appeal certifies in
writing to the hearing officer that based on facts set forth in the
certification, a stay of proceedings would result in imminent danger to life or
property, in which case such proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order issued by the hearing officer or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, upon notice to the parties and for good cause shown. The hearing
on the appeal shall be conducted in a manner that is generally consistent with
the provisions of §
41.17. The hearing officer may affirm, reverse or modify, in whole or in part,
the action or decision of the village personnel from which the appeal is taken.
No person or entity shall challenge any decision or action of any village
personnel through litigation in a court of competent jurisdiction unless or
until a timely notice of appeal has been filed and prosecuted, and the hearing
officer has rendered a final decision on the merits of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 42A.20) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.21 ORDER AND SANCTION ATTACH TO PROPERTY.
   In the case of a building code violation only, the order to correct a
building code violation and the sanctions imposed by the village as the result
of a finding of a building code violation under this section shall attach to
the property as well as to the property owner so that a finding of a building
code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring
the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner of property
takes subject to the findings, decision and order of a hearing officer under
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 42A.21) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.22 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist, or sustaining or overruling any administrative action of the village or
any vehicle impoundment under
Chapter 78 shall constitute a final determination for the purposes of judicial
review under the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act (5 ILCS 100/1-1 et
seq.).
(Prior Code, § 42A.22) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.23 DEBT TO VILLAGE.
   Any fine, hearing cost, administrative or enforcement cost, cost to secure
compliance penalty or part of any fine or penalty assessed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter and remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or
the failure to exhaust, administrative procedures under this chapter and the
conclusion of any judicial review procedures under the Illinois Administrative
Review Act (5 ILCS 100/1-1 et seq.) and the expiration of any time for payment
of the same provided for in any order of the hearing officer, shall be a debt
due and owing the village, and, as such, may be collected in accordance with
applicable law and as provided in this chapter. Without otherwise limiting the
generality of the foregoing, the village shall have the right to refer all
unpaid administrative hearing fines, fees, enforcement cost, costs of
compliance or penalties to the State Comptroller’s Office for collection
pursuant to the Illinois Debt Procedure Act, see e.g., 15 ILCS 40510.02d.
(Prior Code, § 42A.23) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.24 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT.
   (A)   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) may be sought for
a final determination of a code violation, unless stayed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the findings, decision and order of the hearing officer
may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   In any case in which a hearing officer finds that a violator has
failed to comply with a judgment ordering the abatement of any ordinance
violation or imposing any fine or other sanction as a result of an ordinance
violation, any expenses incurred by the village to enforce the judgment,
including, but not limited to, attorney’s fees, court costs, costs related to
property demolition or foreclosure after they are fixed by the hearing officer,
shall be a debt due and owing the village and may be collected in accordance
with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a hearing officer
pursuant hereto, the village shall provide notice to the violator requiring the
violator’s appearance at a hearing before the hearing officer to determine
whether the violator has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall
set the date for such a hearing, which shall not be less than seven calendar
days nor more than 45 calendar days from the date the notice is served. If
notice is served by mail, the seven-day period shall begin to run on the date
that the notice was deposited in the United States Mail.
   (C)   A lien shall be imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or
both, of the violator in the amount of any debt due and owing to the village.
The lien may be recorded and enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien
pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. No lien may be
enforced under this chapter until it has been recorded in the manner provided
by Article XII of the Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq.) or by
the Uniform Commercial Code (810 ILCS 5/1-101).
   (D)   The fines and penalties which shall be imposed by the hearing office
shall be as set forth from time to time in the village code. All monetary fines
shall be exclusive of the cost of enforcement or the costs imposed to secure
compliance with the village code.
(Prior Code, § 42A.24) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
§ 41.25 EVICTION, RIGHTS OF OCCUPANTS.
   In the case of any violation involving village ordinances pertaining to
building codes, property maintenance codes, rental property inspections and
occupancy requirements or crime free housing management, no action for
eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or other similar
proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against an occupant of a dwelling
solely because such occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a hearing held
under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 42A.25) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-
15-2019)
APPENDIX A: MATTERS SUBJECT TO CHAPTER 41 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES
Section         Fire Department Fee Schedule
43.03
Section         Removal from Rotation Tow List
78.09
Section         Impounded Vehicles
78.38
                Dogs and Cats (including but not limited to all appeals from
Chapter 90      declarations of dogs or animals as vicious, dangerous or
                nuisance)
Chapter 91      Fire Prevention
Chapter 58      Garbage and Refuse
Chapter 92      Nuisances
Chapter 113     Raffles
Sections
110.01 through  Business Licenses
110.15
Section         Graffiti Prohibited
132.078
Chapter 150     Building, Electrical, Plumbing and Mechanical Codes
Chapter 151     Housing and Property Maintenance Codes
Chapter 153     Rental Property Inspections
Chapter 154     Residential Rental Property Licensing and Crime Free Housing
Chapter 157     Zoning Code
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 42A, App. A) (Ord. 17-1382, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 18-1460,
passed 2-7-2018; Ord. 18-1499, passed 9-19-2018; Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-15-
2019; Ord. 21-1704, passed 5-19-2021; Ord. 23-1836, passed 3-15-2023; Ord. 24-
1892, passed 1-17-2024; Ord. 24-1914, passed 5-1-2024)
APPENDIX B: MINIMUM FINE SCHEDULE FOR SELECTED ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
Violation First Offense Second Offense Each Subsequent Offense
Violation                  First Offense Second Offense Each Subsequent Offense
Section                    $250.00       $500.00        $750.00
43.03
Sections
90.001—                  $50           $100.00        $150
90.008
Sections
90.020—                  $50           $100           $150
90.047
Sections
90.049,                    $750          $1,000         $1,000
90.050
Sections
90.051,                    $500          $500           $500
90.052
Section
90.053—                  $250          $250           $250
90.056
Chapter 91                 $250.00       $500.00        $750.00
Chapter 58                 $50           $100           $150
Chapter 92 (excluding
single-family residential  $50           $100           $150
properties)
Chapter 92                 $250          $500           $750
Sections
110.01—                  $250          $500           $750
110.15
Section
132.078 (excluding single- $50           $100           $150
family residential
properties)
Section                    $250          $500           $750
132.078
Chapter 150 (excluding §
150.10/Property
Maintenance Code           $250          $500           $1,000
violations involving
single-family residential
properties)
Chapter 151/§
150.10 Property
Maintenance Code           $50           $100           $150
violations involving
single-family residential
properties)
Chapter 153                $250          $500           $750
Chapter 154                $250          $500           $750
Chapter 157                $250.00       $500.00        $750.00
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 42A, App. B) (Ord. 19-1570, passed 5-15-2019; Ord. 21-1704,
passed 5-19-2021; Ord. 24-1914, passed 5-1-2024)
CHAPTER 42: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURE FOR
PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEE BENEFIT CLAIMS
Section
   
42.01   Purpose
   
42.02   Administrative hearing officer
   
42.03   Application process
   
42.04   Conduct of hearing
§ 42.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to provide a fair and efficient method of
determining the eligibility of a former employee for the benefits enumerated
under the Public Safety Employee Benefits Act (820 ILCS 320/1 et seq., the
“Act”) through the process of administrative hearings. All benefits provided
former employees, pursuant to the Public Safety Employee Benefits Act, will be
consistent with the Act. Accordingly, to so determine such eligibility, all
former employees seeking such benefits shall make application to the village
therefor in the manner set forth in this chapter, upon which the village shall
conduct a hearing in the manner set forth in this chapter to determine whether
or not the applicant is eligible for such benefits. This chapter shall be
deemed to establish an independent system of administratively adjudicating
claims for benefits under the Act, and shall not unless expressly provided
herein be subject to or affected by the existence of other systems of
administrative adjudication contained within the village code.
(Prior Code, § 42B.01) (Ord. 18-1491, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 42.02 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Authority and limitations. The administrative hearing shall be
scheduled and conducted by a hearing officer whose authority and limitations
are as follows.
      (1)   Authority of the hearing officer. The hearing officer shall have
all of the authorities granted to them under common law relative to the conduct
of an administrative hearing, including the authority to:
         (a)   Preside over village hearings involving eligibility for benefits
under the Act;
         (b)   Administer oaths;
         (c)   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the issue
of eligibility under the Act;
         (d)   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the
production of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties or
their representatives;
         (e)   Rule upon objections in the admissibility of evidence;
         (f)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits in evidence introduced at the hearing; and
         (g)   Issue a determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, the determination of which shall be in writing and shall include a
written finding of fact, decision and order.
      (2)   Hearing officer. The Village President, with the advice and consent
of the Village Board of Trustees, is authorized to appoint a person to hold the
position of hearing officer for each hearing on benefits under the Act for
which application has been filed with the village. In making said selection,
the following information should be considered, at a minimum:
         (a)   The individual’s ability to comply with the job description as
set forth herein;
         (b)   The individual must be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the state for at least three years and have knowledge of and experience in
employment and labor law, general civil procedure, the rules of evidence and
administrative practice; and
         (c)   Prior to their appointment, hearing officers shall have
successfully completed a formal training program which includes the following:
            1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearing which they will conduct;
            2.   Orientation to the Act and matters involving benefit
eligibility comparable to those they will be called upon to adjudicate;
            3.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
            4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on
evidence and issuing final orders.
   (B)   Late fee for residential rental license. In addition to the fees
otherwise required by this code for the issuance of a residential rental
license under §
154.04, a late fee of $25 shall be charged to any licensee for the issuance of
a residential rental license for a given calendar year where such license is
issued after January 1 of the calendar year for which such license is required.
   (C)   Eligibility for benefits hearing. Any hearing officer appointed to
hear and adjudicate matters under
Chapter 41 shall also conduct the hearings contemplated by this chapter to
determine eligibility for benefits under the Act.
(Prior Code, § 42B.02) (Ord. 18-1491, passed 7-18-2018; Ord. 19-1566, passed 5-
1-2019)
§ 42.03 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   Any former employee seeking benefits under the Act from the village shall
make application therefor in the manner hereinafter set forth.
   (A)   (1)   Public safety officers, or family member(s) of an injured or
deceased public safety officer (“the applicant”), seeking benefits under the
Act must file a full and complete application for benefits under the Act in
writing within 30 days of filing a pension claim with the village or within 30
days of the date of the adoption of this subchapter in the event that an
applicant has filed for benefits under the Act prior to the date of adoption of
this subchapter, whichever is later. The village shall notify the applicant if
the application is incomplete and the applicant shall have five days to remedy
their application. Failure to timely file the full and complete application
shall result in a forfeiture of the benefits under the Act by failure to
properly submit a complete application. The form of the application shall be as
set forth in Appendix A to this chapter.
      (2)   As used in this chapter, the term PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS shall mean
and include all sworn personnel of the Village Police Department and Fire
Department.
   (B)   A complete application for benefits under the Act includes the
following:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, date of hire, detailed information
regarding the incident, including information relating to how the injury was
sustained in the line of duty (date, time, place, nature of injury and other
factual circumstances surrounding the incident giving rise to said claim) and
information pertaining to whether or not the injury at issue constitutes a
catastrophic injury within the meaning of the Act;
      (2)   The applicant’s firsthand knowledge explaining, to the village’s
satisfaction, how the injury/death directly resulted from:
         (a)   Response to fresh pursuit;
         (b)   Response to what is reasonably believed to be an emergency;
         (c)   Response to an unlawful act perpetrated by another; or
         (d)   Participation during the investigation of a criminal act.
      (3)   A signed medical authorization release which authorizes the
collection of information related to the incident and the applicant’s injuries,
including, but not limited to, disability pension proceedings, workers’
compensation records and medical records and specifies the name and address for
pertinent health care provider(s);
      (4)   A signed general information release containing the name and
signature of the applicant or their authorized representative along with legal
proof of said representation and name and signature of witness authorizing the
collection of information pertinent to the incident review process;
      (5)   The name(s) of witnesses to the incident;
      (6)   The name(s) of witnesses the applicant intends to call at the
hearing to determine eligibility for benefits under the Act;
      (7)   Information and supporting pension documentation filed with the
appropriate pension board, and documentation of any decision made by the
pension board in question relative to the granting of any pension to the
applicant;
      (8)   Information supporting the eligibility requirements for benefits
under the Act; and
      (9)   Other sources of health insurance benefits currently enrolled in or
received by the applicant and/or family members if the applicant is deceased.
   (C)   The application must be submitted to the Village Human Resources
Director in its entirety.
   (D)   The application must be sworn and notarized to certify the
truthfulness of the content of the information. A review of the application
shall not occur until the application is complete.
   (E)   On the date that the application is deemed complete by the village,
the completed application shall then be accepted by the village as the
preliminary record in the matter, subject to the further presentation and
development of evidence at the hearing, and a copy of the same shall be date
stamped and provided to the applicant.
   (F)   Upon receipt of a complete application for benefits under the Act, the
village shall set the matter for an administrative hearing before a hearing
officer to make a determination on whether to grant the applicant benefits
under the Act based on the result of the administrative hearing.
   (G)   The applicant shall, within 30 days of the date on which the
application has been deemed complete by the village, be given written notice of
the date for the scheduled administrative hearing to be served not less than
ten days prior to the commencement of the hearing. If the applicant, upon
receiving written notice of the administrative hearing, cannot attend said
date, the applicant must contact the hearing officer in writing within seven
days after being served. The hearing officer shall establish an alternative
hearing date which is within 30 days of the original hearing date. Failure of
the applicant to appear at the administrative hearing shall be deemed a default
and shall result in the denial of benefits under the Act to the applicant.
   (H)   No continuances of a scheduled administrative hearing other than as
contemplated by division (G) above shall be authorized by the hearing officer
in proceedings under this chapter except for good cause shown, and in cases
where a continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the
applicant. Lack of preparation by the applicant shall not be grounds for a
continuance. Any continuance authorized by a hearing officer under this chapter
shall be at the discretion of the hearing officer.
(Prior Code, § 42B.03) (Ord. 18-1491, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 42.04 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   All administrative hearings under this chapter to determine eligibility for
benefits under the Act shall be conducted in accordance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   All hearings shall be audio recorded, and shall also be attended by a
certified court reporter, who shall make a transcript of the proceedings in
such hearing. The village shall bear the cost associated with the attendance of
the court reporter.
   (B)   The applicant and/or their representative and the village shall both
be entitled to appear at the hearing represented by counsel, and shall be
entitled to call witnesses, cross-examine witnesses, elicit testimony and to
present documents, records and other evidence. In furtherance of the same, the
applicant and village may likewise request the hearing officer to issue
subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of
documents, records and other evidence.
   (C)   After all evidence has been presented at the hearing, the hearing
officer shall, within 45 days after the conclusion of the hearing, issue a
written determination as to whether or not the applicant is entitled to
benefits under the Act, which shall contain findings of fact and conclusions of
law. This determination shall constitute a final determination for the purpose
of judicial review as provided for by law.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, in the event
that the Village Manager or their designee determine, after review of an
application, that the applicant is entitled to benefits under the Act, the
Village Manager or their designee may issue a written determination thereof and
take such further actions as are necessary to coordinate the provision of such
benefits to the applicant without the necessity of the hearing process
otherwise provided for in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 42B.04) (Ord. 18-1491, passed 7-18-2018; Ord. 19-1541, passed 2-
6-2019)
CHAPTER 43: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
43.01   Fee schedule
   
43.02   Department of Community Development fee schedule
   
43.03   Fire Department fee schedule
   
43.04   Police Department fee schedule
   
43.05   Delinquent fees, payments or obligations - suspension or withholding of
permits, approvals and the like
   
Appendix A:   Square Foot Construction Costs
§ 43.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Vending machines:
      (1)   Cigarette vending machines: $125 per year;
      (2)   All non-cigarette vending machines capable of providing in excess
of five distinct vending choices to a customer: $50 per year; and
      (3)   All non-cigarette vending machines capable of providing not more
than five distinct vending choices to a customer: $25 per year.
   (B)   Administrative warning tickets: $30 each.
   (C)   Business licenses:
      (1)   A business, as hereinafter defined, shall be charged an annual
business license fee based on the total floor area devoted to the business,
except that food establishments, as hereinafter defined, and home occupations,
as hereinafter defined, shall be charged a license fee specific to those
particular types of businesses. For purposes of the foregoing, the business
license year shall begin on January 1 of every calendar year and shall end on
December 31 of the same calendar year. There shall be no proration of annual
business license fees. In addition to the business license fee applicable as
described in the preceding sentence, any business that also operates as a
tobacco dealer, as hereinafter defined, shall be charged an additional license
fee to engage in the business of a tobacco dealer. Notwithstanding the
foregoing or any contrary provision of this division (C), no business that is
principally and primarily engaged in the business of a food establishment as
defined in this section and required to obtain a business license as such shall
be required to pay the otherwise applicable fee for such license with respect
to the business license year beginning on January 1, 2021 and ending on
December 31, 2021, but such business shall be subject to all other provisions
of this code as may apply thereto.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         (a)   BUSINESS.
            1.   Any occupation, profession, establishment, concern or
enterprise conducted for profit except those occupations or professions
licensed exclusively by the state. In addition, where there are two or more
separate businesses, by the above definition, separately owned or operated,
share floor space in the same building or on the same parcel of ground and the
floor space is subdivided, then each shall be deemed a separate business and
shall be required to obtain a separate business license based on the floor area
each separately uses.
            2.   Where there are multiple uses within one business, the
principal use will be the primary business category used for licensing.
            3.   The businesses herein to be licensed shall specifically
include shopping center developers and owners of buildings leased to another
business or businesses as defined herein.
         (b)   TOTAL FLOOR AREA. Shall include the sum total of all the floor
area in use or reserved for or retained for the use of business, including, but
not restricted to, principal and accessory floor area, cellars and basements,
storage or detached accessory buildings, even though any such floor area may be
temporarily vacant or not in a residential building.
         (c)   HOME OCCUPATION. A business, profession, occupation or trade
conducted for gain entirely within a residential building as permitted by the
village zoning code, or when permitted by the village zoning code, within a
structure that is accessory to a residential building. The annual license fee
shall be $45.
         (d)   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A building or premises or a portion thereof,
the principal use of which is the sale or dispensing or distribution or serving
of food, foodstuffs or drinks (alcoholic or nonalcoholic) for consumption on or
off the premises or in or out of the building. No food establishment shall be
issued any business license without proof of having passed an inspection from
the County Health Department, as applicable, or without proof of having passed
the applicable inspectional requirements of any other governmental agency
having jurisdiction. The annual license fee shall be $200.
         (e)   INDUSTRIAL/MANUFACTURING - WAREHOUSE AND DISTRIBUTION.
            1.   Building or premises or a portion thereof, the principal use
of which is manufacturing, including assembly, processing, fabrication and
storage or scientific research and development.
            2.   The annual business license fee shall be calculated as
follows:
Category Total Floor Area Fee
Industrial/Manufacturing
Category Total Floor Area Fee
Industrial/Manufacturing
0—10,000      $100
10,001—20,000 $205
20,001—30,000 $305
30,001—40,000 $410
40,001—50,000 $510
50,001—75,000 $620
75,001—100,000$720
100,001—200,00$840
200,001 or more $930
 
         (f)   RETAIL AND WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. A building or premises or a
portion thereof the principal use of which is the sale or distribution on any
commodity for a price or fee by a seller to a consumer or by one business to
another business. The annual business license fee shall be calculated as
follows:
Category Total Floor Area Fee
Retail and Wholesale
Category Total Floor Area Fee
Retail and Wholesale
0—2,500      $70
2,501—5,000  $135
5,001—7,500  $210
7,501—10,000 $275
10,001—12,500$350
12,501—15,000$415
15,001—17,500$480
17,501—20,000$555
20,001 or more $625
 
         (g)   SERVICE/COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. A building or premises or a
portion thereof the principal use of which is the rendering of personal or
material services for a price or fee, whether or not a commodity is worked upon
or exchanged. The annual business license fee shall be calculated as follows:
Category Total Floor Area Fee
Service/Commercial
Category Total Floor Area Fee
Service/Commercial
0—2,500      $55
2,501—5,000  $120
5,001—7,500  $195
7,501—10,000 $260
10,001—12,500$335
12,501—15,000$400
15,001—17,500$475
17,501—20,000$540
20,001 or more $610
 
         (h)   TOBACCO DEALER. Includes any business engaged in whole or in
part in the retail or wholesale sale of tobacco and/or tobacco accessories. As
used herein, TOBACCO and TOBACCO ACCESSORIES shall mean and include tobacco in
any and all forms (including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe
tobacco, leaf tobacco, chew, snuff, snus or other orally consumed tobacco,
gels, liquids, solutions and the like containing nicotine and marketed, held
out or intended to be vaporized for inhalation), as well as any and all
products used, held out, marketed or intended to facilitate the consumption of
tobacco whether by smoking, oral consumption or the inhalation of vapors
containing nicotine, including, but not limited to, pipes, hookahs, rolling
papers, e-cigarettes, vaping devices or other electronic device intended to
vaporize any gel, liquid, solution or substance containing nicotine to permit
the inhalation of the vapors therefrom. TOBACCO and TOBACCO ACCESSORIES shall
not include any product approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration marketed and intended for smoking or tobacco use cessation
purposes. The annual fee for a business license for a tobacco dealer shall be
$450, in addition to the applicable license fee for the business as a retail/
wholesale establishment.
         (i)   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL OPERATOR/DISTRIBUTOR. Includes any
business engaged in providing, placing or supplying video gaming terminals to
liquor licensees within the village that hold video gaming endorsements, which
shares video gaming terminal revenues with liquor licensees holding video
gaming endorsements. The annual fee is imposed in the exercise of the village’s
home rule authority and is expressly not imposed or adopted pursuant to the
Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., and shall not be subject to proration.
A VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL OPERATOR/ DISTRIBUTOR that provides, places or supplies
video gaming terminals for any liquor licensee shall be charged an annual
business licensee fee of $2,500 per each licensed premises where such VIDEO
GAMING TERMINAL OPERATOR/DISTRIBUTOR provides, places or supplies video gaming
terminals; provided, however, that if the liquor licensee is also engaged in
the sale of fuel for motor vehicles, including, but not limited to, diesel
fuel, the annual business license fee in such a case shall be $3,000, per each
licensed premises where such video gaming terminal operator/distributor
provides, places or supplies video gaming terminals. The fee imposed by this
division (C)(2)(i) shall be imposed on a calendar year basis, and the fee for a
given calendar year shall be due and payable on or before December 31 of the
preceding year.
   (D)   Non-sufficient funds (NSF) fee for checks returned to the village:
$35.
   (E)   Ambulance fees:
 
Service                        Resident             Nonresident
ALS 1 base rate                $600                 $725
ALS 2 base rate                700                  825
Auto extrication               700                  800
BLS base rate                  450                  650
Transportation to the hospital $10 per mile one way $10 per mile one way
 
   (F)   Park donation requirements:
      (1)   Ten acres per 1,000 residents, P.E.; P.E. is calculated using the
state formula;
      (2)   All park space dedicated to the village must be graded and seeded
to the village’s satisfaction with sidewalk on the park frontage;
      (3)   Ten shade trees must be planted per acre. The bodies of the shade
trees must have a minimum diameter of two and one-half inches. In addition to
the ten shade trees per acre, parkway trees are also required though guidelines
in the parkway ordinance;
      (4)   Utilities must be supplied to the new park property; and
      (5)   The cash equivalent per acre should be $70,000.
   (G)   Freedom of Information fees.
      (1)   The first 50 black and white copies up to legal size shall be free
of charge.
      (2)   Additional copies up to legal size shall be $0.15 per page.
      (3)   Large size plans, color maps or other media shall be the actual
cost to the village.
   (H)   Solicitor permit: for a 30-day period: $250.
   (I)   Restaurant licenses: $240 annually.
   (J)   Carnival permit: $50.
   (K)   Liquor license:
      (1)   Class A: $2,000 per year;
      (2)   Class B: $1,250 per year;
      (3)   Class C: $1,250 per year;
      (4)   Class D: $1,250 per year;
      (5)   Class E: $1,250 per year;
      (6)   Class F: $1,250 per year;
      (7)   Class H: $120 per day, plus a deposit in the amount of $1,000 for
applicants using approved public property of the village to defray the cost of
any cleaning, maintenance or repairs necessitated by the licensee’s use of any
approved public property of the village;
      (8)   Class H-1: $250;
      (9)   Class I: $50;
      (10)   Class J: $1,800;
      (11)   Class K: $2,000 per year;
      (12)   Class L: $600 per year;
      (13)   Class L-1: $500 per year;
      (14)   Class M: $1,800 per year;
      (15)   Class M-1: $1,200 per year;
      (16)   Class N: $1,250 per year;
      (17)   Class O: $1,250 per year;
      (18)   Class P: $250 per year;
      (19)   Class Q: $500 per year;
      (20)   Class Q-1: $750 per year;
      (21)   Class U: $2,000 per year;
      (22)   Class E promotional endorsement: $100 per year;
      (23)   Class A, B and C off-premises sale end: $100 per year;
      (24)   Class G full service hotel endorsement: $200 per year;
      (25)   Video gaming terminal location endorsement fee shall be $250 per
terminal per year, except that in the case of a video gaming terminal is
located within a licensed truck stop establishment, the video gaming terminal
location endorsement fee shall be $500 per terminal per year. In either case,
the annual video gaming terminal location endorsement fee shall be borne
equally by the holder of the video gaming terminal endorsement(s) and the
person or entity licensed by the state as the video gaming terminal operator
with respect to the video gaming terminals placed at the licensed premises,
with each party being responsible for payment of one-half of the applicable
annual video gaming terminal location endorsement fee. In addition, in the case
of any application for any new or initial video gaming terminal location
endorsement, the licensee making such application shall pay to the village an
application fee in the amount of $500; and
      (26)   Class A special event endorsement: $100 per year.
   (L)   Vehicle stickers are no longer required;
   (M)   Garage sale permit: $5;
   (N)   Animal pick-up fee: $25;
   (O)   Animal boarding fee: $10 per day;
   (P)   Metra parking lot fees:
      (1)   Daily parking permit fee: $1 per day, per space;
      (2)   Semiannual parking permit fee:
         (a)   One hundred twenty-five dollars per space, resident; and
         (b)   One hundred fifty dollars per space, nonresident.
      (3)   Annual parking permit fee:
         (a)   Two hundred fifty dollars per space, resident; and
         (b)   Three hundred dollars per space, nonresident.
      (4)   Electronic transaction fees: $0.37 per electronic transaction.
   (Q)   Kennel fee/release from impound fee: $45, plus accrued daily boarding
fees.
   (R)   Daily animal boarding fee at Village Animal Control facility/kennel:
$10 per day.
   (S)   (1)   Annual dog/cat license fee: $4.
      (2)   Fee shall be waived for persons age 62 or older, to legally blind
persons registering seeing-eye dogs or for disabled persons registering dogs
trained to provide assistance with daily living function.
   (T)   Nuisance/dangerous/vicious dog annual license fee:
      (1)   Ten dollars per nuisance dog/animal;
      (2)   Fifteen dollars per dangerous dog; and
      (3)   Twenty-five dollars per vicious dog.
   (U)   Class A and Class B raffle license application fees: $25.
   (V)   Class C raffle license application fee: $50.
   (W)   Chapter 130 tobacco licensing fees:
      (1)   Application fee for Chapter 130 license applications: $250;
      (2)   License fee for retail tobacco store or retail alternative/
electronic store license: $650;
      (3)   License fee for multi products retailer license: $1,000; and
      (4)   Payment of any license fee pursuant to divisions (W)(2) or (W)(3)
above shall exempt the licensee from payment of the fee imposed by division (C)
(2)(h) above.
(Prior Code, § 43.01) (Ord. 2671-99, passed 6-21-1999; Ord. 2702-99, passed 10-
6-1999; Ord. 2704-99, passed 10-6-1999; Ord. 0026-02, passed 5-1-2002; Ord.
0027-02, passed 5-1-2002; Ord. 0023-03, passed 3-19-2003; Ord. 03-0105, passed
1-21-2004; Ord. 05-0263, passed 4-6-2005; Ord. 05-0280, passed 6-1-2005; Ord.
10-0819, passed 2-3-2010; Ord. 10-0848, passed 4-7-2010; Ord. 11-0918, passed
8-17-2011; Ord. 11-0933, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1018, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
15-1231, passed 11-18-2015; Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 18-1457, passed
1-17-2018; Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018; Ord. 18-1505, passed 9-19-2018; Ord.
20-1662, passed 11-4-2020; Ord. 21-1726, passed 10-6-2021; Ord. 22-1775, passed
4-20-2022; Ord. 22-1801, passed 11-15-2022; Ord. 22-1815, passed 12-7-2022;
Ord. 24-1902, passed 3-6-2024; Ord. 24-1907, passed 3-20-2024; Ord. 24-1920,
passed 6-12-2024)
§ 43.02 DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Permit fees.
      (1)   New residential: the greater of $1,250 or the computed permit fee
utilizing the ICC Building Valuation Data Table, as locally amended in the form
included as
Appendix A to this chapter, multiplied by a regional cost modifier of 1.05 and
a permit fee modifier of 0.0075, respectively.
         (a)   Plumbing fee: 15% of building fee;
         (b)   Electrical fee: 15% of building fee; and
         (c)   HVAC fee: 15% of building fee.
      (2)   Residential remodeling and accessory: $25 multiplied by number of
inspections.
      (3)   Residential tap-on fees:
         (a)   Sanitary sewer: $4,000; and
         (b)   Water meter: $4,000.
      (4)   Apartment and condominium tap-on fees:
         (a)   Sanitary sewer: $480/P.E., but not less than $4,000; and
         (b)   Water meter: $440/P.E., but not less than $4,000.
   (B)   Commercial/industrial construction including remodel/build-out. The
greater of $5,000 or the computed permit fee utilizing the ICC Building
Valuation Data Table, as locally amended in the form included as Appendix A to
this chapter, multiplied by a regional cost modifier of 1.05 and a permit fee
modifier of 0.0075, respectively. Notwithstanding the foregoing, permits for
build-outs involving $1,000 square feet or less shall be charged a flat fee of
$2,500:
      (1)   Plumbing fee: $500;
      (2)   Electrical fee: $500;
      (3)   HVAC fee: $500;
      (4)   Racking systems: multiply the total cost of the racking system by
0.0045, but not less than $500:
         (a)   Electrical fee: $500; and
         (b)   Review fee: $150 per discipline.
      (5)   Commercial/industrial tap-on fees:
         (a)   Water main: $440/P.E., but not less than $4,000;
         (b)   Sanitary sewer main: $480/P.E., but not less than $4,000;
         (c)   RFP valve:
            1.   Three-fourths inch: $300;
            2.   One inch: $375;
            3.   One and one-half inch: $600;
            4.   Two inches: $725;
            5.   Three inches: $1,700; and
            6.   Four inches: $2,400.
         (d)   P.E. determinations for tap-on fee calculations.
            1.   Sanitary sewer. Prior to tapping on or connecting any
commercial or industrial building, structure, use or customer to the village’s
sanitary sewer system, the applicant for such tap-on or connection shall submit
to the village a calculation prepared by a professional engineer licensed by
the state setting forth the anticipated sanitary sewer usage requirements of
the building, structure, use or customer proposed to be tapped on or connected
to the village’s sanitary sewer system, expressed as a number of population
equivalents. The domestic sanitary sewer usage component of this calculation
shall be made with reference to the table of commonly used sewage flows set
forth at 35 Ill. Admin. Code 370, Appendix B, Table 2, and supplemented with
such additional information as the village may reasonably require to determine
the industrial and non-domestic sewage flows anticipated to be generated by the
building, structure, use or customer in question, and to the maximum occupancy
of the building or structure in question under applicable village ordinances.
            2.   Water. Prior to tapping on or connecting any commercial or
industrial building, structure, use or customer to the village’s water system,
the applicant for such tap-on or connection shall submit to the village a
calculation prepared by a professional engineer licensed by the state setting
forth the anticipated water usage requirements of the building, structure, use
or customer proposed to be tapped on or connected to the village’s water
system, expressed as a number of population equivalents. For commercial or
industrial buildings, structures, uses or customers that do not involve any use
of process water or the generation of non-domestic commercial or industrial
sewage flows, the population equivalent calculation for anticipated water usage
may be set equal to the number of population equivalents calculated for
sanitary sewer usage pursuant to division (B)(5)(d)1. above. Otherwise, the
calculation shall reflect that number of population equivalents of water usage
equal to the population equivalents of anticipated sanitary sewer usage
determined pursuant to division (B)(5)(d)1. above, supplemented with such
additional information as the village may reasonably require to determine the
non-domestic water usage and process water usage anticipated to be generated by
the building, structure, use or customer in question.
            3.   Sewer and water usage reviews. The village reserves the right
to periodically review actual water and sewage system usage by any commercial
or industrial building, structure, use or customer connected to the village’s
water and sanitary sewer system as reflected by the water and sewer billings to
the building, structure, use or customer in question during the 12-month period
prior to the conduct of the review. In the event that the actual water and
sewage system usage reflected by the billings to the account exceeds the
anticipated usage disclosed by the calculations in divisions (B)(5)(d)1. and
(B)(5)(d)2. above, the village shall have the right to impose additional water
and sanitary sewer tap-on fees in an amount based on the number of population
equivalents by which the actual system usage exceeds the anticipated usage
disclosed at the time of application for a tap-on or connection to the village
water and sanitary sewer system. Subject to division (B)(5)(d)4. below, the
village likewise reserves the right to conduct such reviews in connection with
the submission of any application to the village for any permit, approval,
review or other action involving or relating to any change in the use,
occupancy, development, construction or ownership of any commercial or
industrial building or structure and to impose additional water and sanitary
sewer tap-on fees as set forth above where such reviews demonstrate that the
proposed change in the use, occupancy, development, construction or ownership
of any commercial or industrial building or structure will increase water and
sewer system usage in the future over the usage demonstrated by water and sewer
billings during the prior 12-month period. In connection with a review
initiated in connection with the submission of an application to the village
for any permit, approval, review or other action involving or relating to any
change in the use, occupancy, development, construction or ownership of any
commercial or industrial building or structure, the applicant shall provide the
village with the calculations in divisions (B)(5)(d)1. and (B)(5)(d)2. above,
prepared to reflect water and sewer usage after the proposed change in the use,
occupancy, development, construction or ownership of any commercial or
industrial building or structure.
            4.   Demolition and new construction. In the case of the demolition
of any building or structure connected to the village water and sanitary sewer
system and the replacement thereof with a new building, structure or use, the
applicant for the demolition permit and building permit for any new proposed
building, structure or use shall submit all necessary information to the
village to permit the conduct of the review contemplated by division (B)(5)
(d)3. above, and the applicant shall have the responsibility to demonstrate the
sewer and water usage of the building or structure being demolished during the
last 12 months of its occupancy prior to demolition, and to pay any additional
tap-on fees calculated pursuant to division (B)(5)(d)3. above; provided,
however, that if the building or structure in question has remained vacant,
unused and unoccupied for the five-year period preceding the submission of the
application for a demolition permit, the applicant shall instead submit the
calculations contemplated by divisions (B)(5)(d)1. and (B)(5)(d)2. above as in
the case of new construction and the initial tap-on or connection to the
village water and sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Construction plan review.
      (1)   (a)   Residential: $500 per unit.
         (b)   Fee is payable per each separate dwelling intended as a
residence for a single-family, and not on a per building basis, regardless of
the number of such dwellings contained within a given building.
      (2)   (a)   Condominiums/apartments: $500 per unit.
         (b)   Fee is payable per each separate dwelling intended as a
residence for a single-family, and not on a per building basis, regardless of
the number of such dwellings contained within a given building.
      (3)   Clubhouses: $1,000.
      (4)   Nonresidential:
         (a)   In house review: $0.16 per square foot; minimum fee: $1,200;
         (b)   1.   Expedited review: two and one-half times the review fee.
            2.   Note: This fee shall be waived for inspections or reviews in
connection with solar panel and wind turbine installation.
         (c)   Consultant review: consultant fee, plus $200 administrative
processing fee.
      (5)   Accessory structures/additions: $50.
   (D)   Elevator inspections. Elevator inspections: $75.
   (E)   Rental inspections.
      (1)   Rental property inspection: $200; and
      (2)   Rental property reinspection: $100.
   (F)   Water meter charges.
      (1)   Original/replacement water meter installation. The fee for any
original or replacement water meter with all appurtenant plumbing connections,
fittings and accessories together with the corresponding endpoint shall be the
cost thereof billed to the village by its then-current supplier, plus a 10%
administration and handling fee.
      (2)   Monthly water meter fees. The following fees shall be billed
monthly on the water bill to each metered water customer based upon meter size,
as indicated below:
         (a)   Five-eighths-inch/three-fourths-inch: $2.50, within village
limits;
         (b)   Five-eighths-inch/three-fourths-inch: $2.50, outside of village
limits;
         (c)   One inch: $15;
         (d)   One and one-half inch: $25;
         (e)   Two inches: $30;
         (f)   Three inches: $35;
         (g)   Four inches: $40; and
         (h)   Six inches: $50.
      (3)   Senior citizen homeowners’ discount. Residents qualifying for the
senior citizen homeowners’ discount, as defined in §
50.052(E), will receive a $0.50 discount on monthly meter fee charges.
   (G)   Miscellaneous fees.
      (1)   Commercial or industrial accessory equipment systems or structures
(cooling water system, compressed air system, pick modular, material handling
equipment, commercial hoods, guard shacks and the like):
         (a)   Permit fee: $500 per unit; and
         (b)   Review fee: $150 per unit per discipline.
      (2)   Battery charging station:
         (a)   Permit fee: $750;
         (b)   Review fee: $500; and
         (c)   Plumbing fee: $300
      (3)   Eyewash station:
         (a)   Permit fee: $200; and
         (b)   Review fee: $100.
      (4)   Construction trailer:
         (a)   Permit fee (all construction trailers): $100;
         (b)   Electric fee (construction trailers with electric): $500; and
         (c)   Review fee (all construction trailers): $50.
      (5)   Telecommunications/cellular tower:
         (a)   Permit fee: $5,000; and
         (b)   Review fee: $2,500.
      (6)   Telecommunications/cellular antenna and equipment cabinet:
         (a)   Permit fee: $500; and
         (b)   Review fee: $500.
      (7)   Satellite dish (does not include standard DIRECTV, DISH NETWORK or
similar dishes smaller than two feet in diameter):
         (a)   Permit fee (all satellite dishes): $90;
         (b)   Electric fee (satellite dishes with electric): $75; and
         (c)   Review fee: $50.
      (8)   Residential electric vehicle (EV) chargers:
         (a)   Permit fee: $75; and
         (b)   Review fee: $50.
      (9)   Nonresidential electric vehicle (EV) chargers:
         (a)   Permit fee: $500;
         (b)   Review fee: $1,200; and
         (c)   Zoning fee: $100.
      (10)   Residential solar panels:
         (a)   Permit fee: $25; and
         (b)   Review fee: $50.
      (11)   Nonresidential solar panels:
         (a)   Permit fee: $500; and
         (b)   Review fee: $1,200.
      (12)   Demising wall:
         (a)   Permit fee: $1 per lineal foot, minimum permit fee: $500; and
         (b)   Review fee: $50 for each discipline.
      (13)   Commercial roofing permit fee (fee is calculated for each level of
roof):
         (a)   Less than 10,000 square feet: $250;
         (b)   Ten thousand to 99,999 square feet: $500; and
         (c)   One hundred thousand square feet or more: $750.
      (14)   Commercial siding/brick re-facing: permit fee: $500.
      (15)   Trash compactor (interior and exterior):
         (a)   Permit fee: $200; and
         (b)   Review fee: $100.
      (16)   Parking lot re-striping:
         (a)   Permit fee: $125;
         (b)   Zoning review fee for fewer than 25 spaces: $50; and
         (c)   Zoning review fee for 25 or more spaces: $100.
      (17)   Parking lot resurfacing/ re-construction:
         (a)   Permit fee: $125;
            1.   Up to 1,000 square feet each; and
            2.   Additional 1,000 square feet $4 per square feet.
         (b)   Plan review fee: $50.
      (18)   Low voltage wiring:
         (a)   Industrial/warehousing less than 30,000 square feet: $500;
         (b)   Industrial/warehousing over 30,000 square feet: $1,000; and
         (c)   Retail/office/institutional:
            1.   First 5,000: $150; and
            2.   Over 5,000 square feet: $500.
      (19)   Crane:
         (a)   Permit fee: $500; and
         (b)   Applicant responsible for payment of consultant(s) fee(s).
      (20)   Commercial fence (applies to all applications except for
individual single-family residential, duplex and townhome lots):
         (a)   Permit fee: $0.25/lineal foot (minimum fee $250);
         (b)   Zoning fee: $50; and
         (c)   Electric fee: $500.
      (21)   Other accessory structures (applies to applications for accessory
structures, not listed in this section, on commercial property):
         (a)   Permit fee: $100 per inspection;
         (b)   Plan review fee: $50; and
         (c)   Zoning review fee: $50.
   (H)   Land development fees.
      (1)   Annexation agreement: as per village’s professional services
agreement;
      (2)   Annexation and zoning: $200 per acre (but not less than $2,000),
plus cost of public hearing notices;
      (3)   Concept plan:
         (a)   For properties less than ten acres in area: $500 for the initial
review, plus $250 for each subsequent review; and
         (b)   For properties greater than ten acres in area: $750 for the
initial review, plus $250 for each subsequent review.
      (4)   Rezoning: $1,000, plus cost of public hearing notices;
      (5)   Special use permits (not including planned unit development):
$1,000, plus cost of public hearing notices;
      (6)   Planned unit development - general/final development plan:
         (a)   For nonresidential property less than ten acres in area: $2,500
for a maximum of three reviews, plus $1,000 for each subsequent review, plus
cost of public hearing notices;
         (b)   For nonresidential property between ten acres and 70 acres in
area: $4,000 for a maximum of three reviews, plus $1,500 for each subsequent
review, plus cost of public hearing notices;
         (c)   For nonresidential property greater than 70 acres in area:
$6,000 for a maximum of three reviews, plus $2,500 for each subsequent review,
plus cost of public hearing notices;
         (d)   For residential property less than ten acres in area: $2,500 for
a maximum of three reviews, plus $1,000 for each subsequent review, plus $50
per dwelling unit, plus cost of public hearing notices;
         (e)   For residential property between ten acres and 70 acres in area:
$4,000 for a maximum of three reviews, plus $1,500 for each subsequent review,
plus $50 per dwelling unit, plus cost of public hearing notices; and
         (f)   For residential property greater than 70 acres in area: $6,000
for a maximum of three reviews, plus $2,500 for each subsequent review, plus
$50 per dwelling unit, plus cost of public hearing notices.
      (7)   Planned unit development - general/final development plan
amendment:
         (a)   Major change: same fees as planned unit development - general/
final development plan division (J)(7) below; and
         (b)   Minor change: $1,500, plus any additionally accrued public
notice fees, consultant fees or other miscellaneous fees.
      (8)   Site plan:
         (a)   For properties less than ten acres in area: $1,500 for a maximum
of three reviews, plus $700 for each subsequent review;
         (b)   For properties between ten acres and 70 acres in area: $2,500
for a maximum of three reviews, plus $1,000 for each subsequent review;
         (c)   For properties greater than 70 acres in area: $3,500 for a
maximum of three reviews, plus $1,500 for each subsequent review; and
         (d)   The site plan fee does not apply to projects developed under
planned unit development.
      (9)   Landscape plan:
         (a)   For properties less than ten acres in area: $750 for a maximum
of three reviews, plus $325 for each subsequent review;
         (b)   For properties ten acres in area or larger: $1,000 for a maximum
of three reviews, plus $500 for each subsequent review; and
         (c)   The landscape plan fee does not apply to projects developed
under planned unit development.
      (10)   Engineering plan.
         (a)   For projects being developed within the corporate limits of the
village, the fee shall be 4.5% of the engineering improvement cost estimate.
Upon application, 3% of the proposed cost estimate is due. Upon approval of the
engineering plans, the balance (based on the approved cost estimate) shall be
paid.
         (b)   For projects being developed outside the corporate limits of the
village, the fee shall be 6% of the engineering improvement cost estimate. Upon
application, 3% of the proposed cost estimate is due. Upon approval of the
engineering plans, the balance (based on the approved cost estimate) shall be
paid.
      (11)   Preliminary plat:
         (a)   For nonresidential projects: the greater of: $100 per acre or
$1,000; and
         (b)   For residential projects: the greater of: $100 per acre or
$1,000, plus $30 per dwelling unit.
      (12)   Final plat:
         (a)   For nonresidential projects: the greater of $100 per acre or
$1,000; and
         (b)   For residential projects: the greater of $100 per acre or
$1,000, plus $30 per dwelling unit.
      (13)   Sign permits:
         (a)   For temporary sign: the greater of $2 per square foot or $50;
and
         (b)   For all other signs: the greater of $15 per square foot or $100.
   (I)   Variances.
      (1)   Zoning variances for single-family residential: $150 per request,
plus cost of public hearing notices;
      (2)   Zoning variances for all except single-family residential: $1,000
per request, plus cost of public hearing notices; and
      (3)   Development regulations variances: $500 per request, plus cost of
public hearing notices.
   (J)   Text amendments.
      (1)   Zoning ordinance text amendment: $1,000, plus professional fees as
per village’s professional services agreement, plus cost of public hearing
notices.
      (2)   Zoning map correction: no fee.
      (3)   Comprehensive plan amendment: $1,000, plus professional fees as per
village’s professional services agreement, plus cost of public hearing notices.
   (K)   Appeals. Appeals from decision of Zoning Administrator: $1,000, plus
cost of public hearing notices.
   (L)   Zoning certificates.
      (1)   Existing residential structures: $100.
      (2)   Existing nonresidential structures: $500.
      (3)   Garage: $50.
      (4)   Room addition: $50.
      (5)   Pool: $30.
      (6)   Other accessory structure: $10.
      (7)   New dwelling unit: $50.
      (8)   New nonresidential structure or addition: $100.
   (M)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Development review committee: $1,200.
      (2)   Planning and Zoning Commission: $600, plus cost of public hearing
notices.
      (3)   Zoning Board of Appeals: $600, plus cost of public hearing notices.
      (4)   Village Board: $1,500, plus cost of public hearing notices.
   (N)   Zoning and code verification requests/letters.
      (1)   Requests for letters or statements verifying the existing zoning
classification of a property, the existence or nonexistence of violations of
Title XV based on then-existing village records, and the existence of other
zoning-related approvals including variances, special use permits, planned unit
developments, map amendments or text amendments shall be made on such forms as
the Department of Community Development shall from time to time provide.
      (2)   The fee for the preparation and issuance of all such requested
letters or statements shall be $100 with respect to each separate parcel or lot
requested, as determined by reference to the property identification numbers
assigned by the county.
(Prior Code, § 43.02) (Ord. 35-01, passed 2-21-2001; Ord. 104-01, passed 12-19-
2001; Ord. 0010-02, passed 1-16-2002; Ord. 0086-02, passed 11-20-2002; Ord. 04-
0139, passed 4-21-2004; Ord. 05-0271, passed 4-20-2005; Ord. 05-0303, passed 8-
23-2005; Ord. 05-0304, passed 8-23-2005; Ord. 06-0487, passed 12-6-2006; Ord.
10-0819, passed 2-3-2010; Ord. 10-0839, passed 4-7-2010; Ord. 14-1111, passed
4-2-2014; Ord. 15-1170, passed 1-21-2015; Ord. 17-1355, passed 3-1-2017; Ord.
18-1501, passed 9-19-2018; Ord. 21-1709, passed 6-16-2021; Ord. 22-1775, passed
4-20-2022; Ord. 22-1814, passed 12-7-2022; Ord. 23-1859, passed 8-16-2023)
§ 43.03 FIRE DEPARTMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Plan review.
      (1)   Fee schedules.
(1) Building fire and life safety review.
All occupancy classes other than classes R- Fee Additional Information/Comment
1, R-2, R-3 and R-4.
(1) Building fire and life safety review. All occupancy classes other   Fee  Additional
than classes R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4.                                          Information/Comment
   New construction, or building addition greater than 50% of original square footage
 New construction 30,000 square feet or less                           $395  
 New construction 30,001—80,000 square feet                          $475  
 New construction 80,001 square feet to 130,000                        $580  
 New construction 130,001 square feet or greater                       $675  
 Other miscellaneous building fire and life safety review              $170  
                                                                             Up to 20,000 square
 Tenant build out/remodel                                              $295 feet, then follow
                                                                             schedule above
   Building fire and life safety review - R Class occupancies
 Miscellaneous other residential fire and life safety building review  $200  
 R-1 Classification - Hotels/motels, boarding houses                   $650  
 R-2 Classification - Apartments, condominiums, dormitories            $350 +25 per unit
 R-3 Classification - Adult care, child care, congregate living        $475  
 R-4 Classification - Residential care/assisted living                 $525  
(2) Fire protection systems                                             Fee  Additional
                                                                             Information/Comment
   Sprinkler systems, wet/dry - installation/modifications - fire suppression systems
 Up to 20 sprinkler head                                               $270  
 21—50 sprinkler heads                                               $350  
 51—200 sprinkler heads                                              $435  
 201—300 sprinkler heads                                             $575  
 301 sprinkler heads or more                                           $650 + $0.50 per head
                                                                             over 301
 Commercial cooking systems or hood and duct kitchen system            $425  
 Dry chemical system, clean agent system, FM200 carbon dioxide         $350  
 Fire pump - submitted as not part of sprinkler system                 $400  
 Foam system                                                           $375  
 Hose valve/standpipe modification                                     $325  
 Hose valve/standpipe - new installation                               $170 Per standpipe
 Other extinguishing systems                                           $250  
 Spray booth                                                           $400  
(3) Fire alarm installation/modifications                               Fee  Additional
                                                                             Information/Comment
 All occupancy classes other than R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4                $325  
 Carbon monoxide/gas detection alarm systems                           $250  
 Fire alarm modifications/repairs (3 devices or less)                  $170  
 Miscellaneous other fire alarm reviews                                $225  
 R1 Classification - hotels/motels, boarding houses                    $425  
 R2 Classification - apartments, condominiums, dormitories             $400  
 R3 Classification - adult care, child care, congregate living         $350  
 R4 Classification - residential care/assisted living                  $350  
(4) Fuel storage                                                        Fee  Additional
                                                                             Information/Comment
 LPG, flammable/combustible fuel tanks, fuel cell                      $350  
(5) Miscellaneous plan review fees                                      Fee  Additional
                                                                             Information/Comment
 Card access systems/security systems - fire and life safety review    $200  
 Expedite fee - all types/per plan review                              2-½X listed plan review
                                                                        fee
 Other un-categorized plan reviews                                     $225  
 Photovoltaic (solar) systems                                          $350  
 Plan handling/consultant submittal                                    $150 per plan/submittal
    Third-party plan review may be used at the discretion of the Fir     
  Prevention Bureau and is subject to the consultant’s fee schedule
 Racking, shelving, conveyor systems                                   $350  
                                                                        50% of the fee charged
 Revised plan review                                                   for the review of the
                                                                        original plan or
                                                                        submittal
 
      (2)   Inspection or acceptance test fees not included. Plan review fees
do not include any inspections or acceptance tests. The fees for inspections,
acceptance tests and other Fire Department inspectional services are set forth
in division (B) below.
   (B)   Inspections, tests and special fees.
(1)   InspectioFee Additional Information/Comment
(1)   Inspections                                                                   Fee  Additional Information/Comment
 Above ceiling inspection                                                             $200  
 Annual inspection                                                                    $ -   
 Bureau inspection of reported violation                                              $500  
 Bureau re-inspection of reported violation                                           $600  
 Change of ownership, use or rental inspection                                        $200  
 Change of ownership, use or rental re-inspection                                     $150  
 Fire and life safety inspection (final for occupancy)                                $200  
 First re-inspection after annual inspection                                          $ -   
 Fourth and all subsequent re-inspections after annual inspection                     $225  
  Off hour inspections - before or after normal work hours (8:00 a.m.—4:00 Weekdays  $150 Monday—Friday per person/hour
  p.m.)                                                                      Weekends/ $300 Saturday—Sunday/holidays per person/
                                                                             holidays       hour
 Other miscellaneous inspections not listed                                           $200  
 Pre-inspection advisory/consultation walk-through (1-hour minimum)                   $175 Per hour
 Racking inspection                                                                   $275 Per each inspection (phased)
 Racking re-inspection                                                                $300 Per each inspection
 Second and third re-inspections after annual inspection                              $175  
 Unauthorized occupancy or work - inspection/site visit                               $250 penalty and 2x the plan review fee and
                                                                                       inspection fee
 
 
(2) Fire alarm systems                    Fee  Additional Information/Comment
 Alarm inspection and acceptance test    $275  
 Carbon monoxide/gas detection alarm     $325  
  systems
 Other miscellaneous fire alarm          $225  
  inspections not listed
 Re-test after inspector/acceptance test $300  
  failure
 
 
(3) Fireworks                                          Fee  Additional
                                                            Information/Comment
 Display application/permit                           $425  
 Duty personnel (2-hour minimum)                      $150  
 Fire Department  Unit type determined ATV/brush unit $200  
 vehicle stand by upon permit review   EMS or wngine  $400  
 Pre-advisory walk through                            $150  
 Site Safety Officer (2-hour minimum)                 $175  
 
(4) Fire protection systems       Fee            Additional Information/Comment
 Clean agent system or other     $250            
  extinguishing systems
 Commercial kitchen - hood and   $250            
  duct system
  Commercial kitchen - hood and
 duct system re-inspection after $300            
  failure
 Fire pump test - witness        $350            
 Other miscellaneous inspections $200            
  not listed
 Sprinkler dry system air test   $225            
  Sprinkler system hydrostatic
 re-inspection/test - after      $300            
  failure
 Sprinkler system hydrostatic    $250            
  witness/test
 Sprinkler system pressure test  $225            
  Sprinkler system trip re-test
 or inspection after final       $250            
  acceptance failure
 Sprinkler system trip test/     $200            
  final acceptance
 Stand pipe/hose valve           $250            
  inspection
 System flush - witness          $175            
(5) Water supply                  Fee            Additional Information/Comment
 Water supply - hydrant flow     $275            
  test
(6) Mechanical systems            Fee            Additional Information/Comment
 Mechanical - gas removal/       $225            
  exhaust system
 Mechanical - large fan test     $200            
 Mechanical re-inspection        $200            
 Mechanical - smoke exhaust test $200            
(7) Life safety                   Fee            Additional Information/Comment
  Life safety - bureau inspection
 of reported hazard or dangerous $300            
  condition
 Life safety - card access/      $200            
  security systems
 Life safety - emergency lights  $175            
  and/or exit signs inspection
 Life safety - exit and/or       $175            
  egress inspections
 Life safety - occupant load     $175            
  inspection
(8) Miscellaneous                 Fee            Additional Information/Comment
 Fire extinguisher training      $300           Per class/25 student maximum
 Fire watch (2-hour minimum)     $200           Per person/per hour
  Less than 96 business hours
 notice to schedule inspection/  $175            
  test - add to fee
  Missed scheduled appointment or
 inspection by owner/occupant/   $275            
  contractor
 Photovoltaic (solar) systems    $275            
 Project consultation meeting    $175           Per hour
  (1-hour minimum)
 Residential rapid entry box -   $50            Refundable upon return of knox
  rental deposit                                 box
(9) Special Hazards/Operational   Fee            Additional Information/Comment
Permits
 Failure to obtain or renew      $150            
  operational permit
 Special hazards first re-       -              No fee for first re-inspection
  inspection after violations
  Special hazards fourth and all
 subsequent re-inspections after $350           Per inspection
  violations
 Special hazards/operational     Fee per permit See
  permits                                        Chapter 91 schedule
  Special hazards second and
 third re-inspections after      $250           Per inspection
  violations
 
   (C)   Motor vehicle incident response cost recovery fees. The following
charges shall be imposed upon parties requesting, served by or otherwise
responsible for calls for the following listed Fire Department response
services involving a motor vehicle incident:
      (1)   Level 1: hazardous materials assessment and scene stabilization:
$478.50 per incident;
      (2)   Level 2: includes Level 1 services as well as any required clean up
and material used (sorbents) for hazardous fluid clean up and disposal: $544.50
per incident;
      (3)   Level 3: vehicle fires. Provide scene safety, fire suppression,
breathing air, rescue tools, hand tools, hose, tip use, foam, structure
protection and clean up gasoline or other automotive fluids that are spilled as
a result of the accident/incident: $665.50 per incident;
      (4)   Level 4: includes Level 1 and 2 services as well as extrication
from vehicles requiring the use of any equipment (heavy rescue tools, ropes,
airbags, cribbing and the like): $1,980 per incident;
      (5)   Level 5: includes Levels 1, 2 and 4 services involving multiple
engine company responses or mutual aid agreement responses, or incidents
requiring airborne patient transportation: $2,420 per incident; and
      (6)   Extraction rescue/recovery services: in addition, any of the
foregoing levels of motor vehicle incident response that require extrication
rescue/recovery services shall be charged an additional fee of $375 per person
so extricated. As used herein, EXTRICATION RESCUE/RECOVERY SERVICES shall mean
and include services relating to or involving the removal of a person from a
vehicle involved in a motor vehicle collision or other accident where
specialized extrication tools are used, or where a person extricated is
required to be immobilized on a backboard or other comparable device.
   (D)   Ambulance transport fees for residents and nonresidents. The following
charges shall be imposed upon both resident and nonresident parties requesting,
served by or otherwise responsible for calls for the following listed ambulance
transport services, and except as otherwise indicated, are imposed on a one-way
basis for transportation from the location where the call for ambulance service
is requested to a hospital.
      (1)   Basis for calculation of ambulance transport fees. As of January 1
of any given year, the basis for ambulance transport fees charged by the
Village Fire Department during the year in question shall be the costs set
forth in the most recent annual report then on file with the State Department
of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) and/or the Federal Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services (the “annual report”), reflecting the actual cost
incurred for the transport of persons by ambulance, whether resident or
nonresident. All persons transported by ambulance shall be charged ambulance
fees equal to the cost for such transport as listed in the annual report,
together with a mileage fee equal to the distance traveled to transport the
patient to the hospital at $15 per mile.
      (2)   Any resident or nonresident refusing transport but requiring basic
life support (BLS) on scene shall be charged $50 for the third and each
subsequent on-scene BLS service within a given calendar year. BLS is defined as
care involving the treatment of non-life threatening injuries or illnesses,
requiring only basic levels of care.
      (3)   Any resident or nonresident refusing transport but requiring
advanced life support (ALS) on scene shall be charged $100. ALS is defined as
care involving the use of advanced medical procedures, including, but not
limited to, the administration of medication, intravenous therapy and
electrocardiogram testing and interpretation.
   (E)   Hazmat incident response fees. The following charges shall be imposed
upon parties requesting, served by or otherwise responsible for calls for the
following listed Fire Department response services involving a hazmat incident.
The fees and charges set forth in this division (E) shall represent and include
the minimum removal and remedial action cost for village and Fire Department
response to a hazardous material incident for which a party may be held liable
pursuant to the provisions of §
32.038. Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the village’s right and ability
under said §
32.038 to recover its actual removal and remedial action costs incurred in
response to a hazardous material incident even if such costs exceed the fees
and charges set forth in this division (E), or the village’s right and ability
to recover other fees and charges as set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Level 1 - basic response: includes engine response, first responder
assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, set-up and command: $700,
based on an assumed one-hour response by an engine company.
      (2)   Level 2 - intermediate response: includes engine response, first
responder assignment, hazmat certified team and appropriate equipment,
perimeter establishment, evacuations, set-up and command, Level A or B suit
donning, breathing air and detection equipment. Set-up and removal of
decontamination center: $2,500, based on an assumed two-hour response by an
engine company and hazmat response team.
      (3)   Level 3 - advanced response: includes engine response, first
responder assignment, hazmat certified team and appropriate equipment,
perimeter establishment, evacuations, first responder set-up and command, Level
A or B suit donning, breathing air and detection equipment and robot
deployment. Set-up and removal of decontamination center, detection equipment,
recovery and identification of material: $5,900, based on an assumed three hour
on-scene response by an engine company and Department hazmat team. Includes
basic disposal and clean-up services performed by responding Department hazmat
teams, but does not include costs incurred by the responding Department hazmat
teams for materials used and third party disposal and clean up services
required in connection with the response, which will be billed in addition on a
pass-through basis.
      (4)   Additional response time charges: in the event that Department
personnel or equipment is required on-scene in connection with a response to a
given hazardous material incident in excess of the response times included and
assumed within the above response levels, the minimum hourly charges for such
response time shall be as set forth below:
         (a)   Hazmat team: $300 per hour per team;
         (b)   Engine company: $400 per hour;
         (c)   Truck company: $500 per hour;
         (d)   Additional/other equipment: $300 per hour; and
         (e)   Materials and services from third party providers. Billed on a
pass through basis.
   (F)   Pipeline/power line incident response fees. The following charges
shall be imposed upon parties requesting, served by or otherwise responsible
for calls for the following listed Fire Department response services involving
a pipeline/power line incident. The fees and charges set forth in this division
(F) shall represent and include the minimum removal and remedial action cost
for village and Fire Department response to a pipeline/power line incident for
which a party may be held liable pursuant to the provisions of §
32.038. Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the village’s right and ability
under said §
32.038 to recover its actual removal and remedial action costs incurred in
response to a hazardous material incident even if such costs exceed the fees
and charges set forth in this division (F), or the village’s right and ability
to recover other fees and charges as set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Level 1 - basic response: includes engine response, first responder
assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, set-up and command and
inspections, where no damage to or breakage of pipeline/power line facilities
is involved: $400, based on an assumed one-hour response.
      (2)   Level 2 - intermediate response: includes engine response, first
responder assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, set-up and command
and may include, as required, hazmat team response, Level A or B suit donning,
breathing apparatus donning and deployment of detection equipment, supervision
and/or assistance of damaged pipeline/power line repair: $1,000, based on an
assumed two-hour response.
      (3)   Level 3 - advanced response: includes engine response, first
responder assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, set-up and command
and may include, as required, hazmat team response, Level A or B suit donning,
breathing apparatus donning and deployment of detection equipment, supervision
and/or assistance of intermediate to major pipeline/power line repair, set up
and removal of decontamination center and the detection, recovery,
identification, cleanup and disposal of materials. Does not include costs
incurred by the responding Department hazmat teams for materials used and third
party disposal and clean up services required in connection with the response,
which will be billed in addition on a pass-through basis. Variable fee based on
actual response time spent by personnel and equipment in responding to
incident.
      (4)   Additional response time charges: in the event that Department
personnel or equipment is required on-scene in connection with a response to a
given pipeline/power line incident in excess of the response times included and
assumed within the above response levels, the minimum hourly charges for such
response time shall be as set forth below. These charges, as well as all other
actual costs incurred, may also be used in calculating the fee for a Level 3
advanced response to a pipeline/power line incident:
         (a)   Hazmat team: $300 per hour per team;
         (b)   Engine company: $400 per hour;
         (c)   Truck company: $500 per hour;
         (d)   Additional/other equipment: $300 per hour; and
         (e)   Materials and services from third party providers: billed on a
pass through basis.
   (G)   Fire investigation fee. The following charges shall be imposed upon
parties requesting, served by or otherwise responsible for calls for the
following listed Fire Department response services involving a fire
investigation. Includes response to a fire by Department investigative team to
assess scene safety, investigate fire, identify fire source, use of Arson dog/
K-9 units as appropriate, identification equipment, mobile detection units and
preparation of fire report: $275 per hour logged. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the fire investigation fee shall not be applicable to or charged
with respect to fire investigations or calls for the other services listed
hereinabove with respect to fires or incidents involving owner-occupied single-
family residential property.
   (H)   Water incident response fee. The following charges shall be imposed
upon parties requesting, served by or otherwise responsible for calls for the
following listed Fire Department response services involving a water incident.
The fees and charges set forth in this division (H) shall represent and include
the minimum removal and remedial action cost for village and Fire Department
response to a pipeline/power line incident for which a party may be held liable
pursuant to the provisions of §
32.038. Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the village’s right and ability
under said §
32.038 to recover its actual removal and remedial action costs incurred in
response to a hazardous material incident even if such costs exceed the fees
and charges set forth in this division (H), or the village’s right and ability
to recover other fees and charges as set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Level 1 - Basic response. Includes engine response, first responder
assignment, perimeter establishment, evacuations, first responder set-up and
command, scene safety and investigation (including possible patient contact,
hazard control): $400, based on an assumed one hour response, plus $50 per hour
for each rescue responder deployed to the incident.
      (2)   Level 2 - Intermediate response. Includes Level 1 services, clean
up services, use of sorbents, minor hazmat clean up and disposal services:
$800, based on an assumed two hour response, plus $50 per hour for each rescue
responder deployed to the incident.
      (3)   Level 3 - Advanced response. Includes Level 1 and Level 2 services,
dive and rescue team activation, donning breathing apparatus, deployment of
detection equipment, recovery and identification of material. Does not include
costs incurred for materials used and third party disposal and clean up
services required in connection with the response, which will be billed in
addition on a pass-through basis: $2,000, based on an assumed three hour
response, plus $50 per hour for each rescue responder deployed to the incident,
plus $100 per hour for any hazmat team member deployed to the incident.
      (4)   Additional response time charges. In the event that Department
personnel or equipment is required on-scene in connection with a response to a
given water incident in excess of the response times included and assumed
within the above response levels, the minimum hourly charges for such response
time shall be as set forth below:
         (a)   Hazmat team: $300 per hour per team;
         (b)   Engine company: $400 per hour;
         (c)   Truck company: $500 per hour;
         (d)   Additional/other equipment: $300 per hour; and
         (e)   Materials and services from third party providers. Billed on a
pass through basis.
   (I)   Back country/special rescue fees; technical rescue service fees.
      (1)   The following charges shall be imposed for calls for the following
listed Fire Department response services involving a back country or special
rescue. Includes services provided in response to requests for rescues from
wilderness areas, canyons/ravines, holes/shafts, underground areas and other
locations or circumstances not otherwise addressed in this section but which
require the Department to respond with trained rescue personnel or specialized
equipment. Fee will be calculated based on a rate of $400 per hour for the
initial response vehicle and $70 per hour for each rescue team member deployed.
Additional vehicles and rescue personnel deployed in response to such an
incident will be billed at the same hourly rates. Costs incurred for materials
or services will be billed on a pass through basis.
      (2)   The following charges shall be imposed for Fire Department
provision of technical rescue services as hereinafter defined, where the
Department is required to respond with trained rescue personnel or specialized
equipment. Fee will be calculated based on a rate of $400 per hour for the
initial response vehicle and $70 per hour for each rescue team member deployed.
Additional vehicles and rescue personnel deployed in response to such an
incident will be billed at the same hourly rates. Costs incurred for materials
or services will be billed on a pass through basis. As used herein, TECHNICAL
RESCUE SERVICES means and includes emergency rescue or response services
involving high angle rescue/recovery, confined space rescue/recovery,
structural collapse rescue/recovery, underwater/submerged rescue/recovery or
vehicle/ machinery rescue/recovery.
      (3)   The following listed categories of persons shall be jointly and
severally liable for the provision of any response services set forth in this
division (I):
         (a)   Owners of vehicles at which such response services are provided;
         (b)   Any and all persons involved in activities contributing to or
responsible for the need for such response services;
         (c)   Owners or possessors of any property to which or for the benefit
of which such response services were provided;
         (d)   Individuals for whom such rescue services are provided, and any
persons responsible for the need of such individuals to receive such response
services; and
         (e)   Individuals responsible for the creation of any conditions
resulting in the need for such response services to be provided.
   (J)   Chief response. The following charges shall be imposed upon parties
requesting, served by or otherwise responsible for calls for the following
listed Fire Department response services that necessitate the presence of or
on-scene command by the Department Chief or a Department Assistant Chief.
Includes response to any incident by the Chief or any Assistant Chief,
establishment of command and directing response to an incident: $250 per hour.
   (K)   Late/unpaid invoices. Unpaid balances of invoices for fees and charges
due and owing under this section that are not paid within 30 days of the date
of the invoice shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, bear interest
at a rate of 1.5% per month. Thereafter, unpaid balances of invoices for fees
and charges due and owing under this section that are not paid within 90 days
of the date of the invoice shall incur a penalty equal to 10% of the unpaid
amount, and may be referred to the Fire Department’s collections services
provider.
(Prior Code, § 43.02A) (Ord. 12-1017, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 14-1111, passed 4-
2-2014; Ord. 14-1150, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 17-1356, passed 4-5-2017; Ord. 17-
1388, passed 9-20-2017; Ord. 20-1673, passed 11-18-2020; Ord. 22-1763, passed
3-16-2022; Ord. 22-1814, passed 12-7-2022; Ord. 23-1834, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 43.04 POLICE DEPARTMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Sex Offender Registration Act fees. In connection with every
registration required to be made with the Chief of Police or their designee by
persons required to so register pursuant to the provisions of the Sex Offender
Registration Act, 730 ILCS 150/1 et seq. (the “Act”), there is imposed an
initial registration fee of $100 for the initial registration, and a subsequent
annual renewal fee of $100. Consistent with the provisions of the Act, the
Chief of Police or their designee may waive these fees upon making a
determination that the registrant is indigent and unable to pay such fees. All
proceeds of these registration fees shall be used and remitted as required by
the provisions of the Act.
   (B)   Overweight permit fees. In addition to the permit fees set forth
below, the permit fee shall also include such costs and expenses as the
applicant shall be required to bear in connection with its operations under the
permit, as set forth in
Chapter 75.
      (1)   Overweight vehicle/load: not on 135th Street or Airport:
         (a)   Single-trip: $75;
         (b)   Round-trip: $125;
         (c)   Limited continuous operation, 90 days: $500; and
         (d)   Limited continuous operation, annual: $1,500.
      (2)   Overweight vehicle/load: route includes 135th Street or Airport
Road bridges:
         (a)   Single-trip: $150;
         (b)   Round-trip: $250;
         (c)   Limited continuous operation, 90 days: not available; and
         (d)   Limited continuous operation, annual: not available.
      (3)   Overlength vehicle/load:
         (a)   Single-trip: $50;
         (b)   Round-trip: $75;
         (c)   Limited continuous operation, 90 days: $250; and
         (d)   Limited continuous operation, annual: $500.
      (4)   Overwidth vehicle/load:
         (a)   Single-trip: $50;
         (b)   Round-trip: $75;
         (c)   Limited continuous operation, 90 days: $250; and
         (d)   Limited continuous operation, annual: $500.
      (5)   Overheight vehicle/load:
         (a)   Single-trip: $50;
         (b)   Round-trip: $75;
         (c)   Limited continuous operation, 90 days: $250; and
         (d)   Limited continuous operation, annual: $500.
      (6)   Overweight/overdimension vehicles for excess weight/dimension under
§
75.16(C): permit fee shall be three times the permit fee applicable for vehicle
weights/dimensions hereinabove set forth plus the estimated costs to be
incurred by the village for staff and consultant review of the permit
application, and for Village Police Department traffic control, road closure or
escort services as required by the Department.
   (C)   There is imposed an administrative fee of $750 on the registered owner
of any motor vehicle used within the corporate limits of the village that the
Police Department or any sworn officer thereof has probable cause to believe
was used on the commission of the offense of fleeing or attempting to elude a
peace office under 625 ILCS 5/11-204 or 625 ILCS 5/11-204.1. The identity of
the registered owner shall be determined by the Police Department through the
records of the Secretary of State. Upon such determination, such registered
owner shall be served with a hearing notice in the form required by §
41.11 which notice shall advise the registered owner of the imposition of the
$750 administrative fee, that a hearing shall be held to sustain or overturn
the imposition of the $750 administrative fee and which shall otherwise set
forth such information as is required by §
41.11. The hearing and any other related proceedings shall be held in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of Chapter 41. In any such
hearing, it shall be a defense to the imposition of the administrative fee that
the vehicle in question had been stolen from the registered owner prior to the
commission of the offense of fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 43.02B) (Ord. 15-1178, passed 2-18-2015; Ord. 17-1386, passed 6-
21-2017; Ord. 23-1854, passed 6-21-2023)
§ 43.05 DELINQUENT FEES, PAYMENTS OR OBLIGATIONS - SUSPENSION OR WITHHOLDING OF
PERMITS, APPROVALS AND THE LIKE.
   In the event that any person or entity shall become delinquent by a period
of time in excess of 30 days (with the existence of any state of delinquency to
be determined by reference to the requirements of this code, any relevant
agreement or contract entered into by and between the village and the person or
entity in question, the standard practices, policies or requirements of any
department of the village, or the provisions of any applicable law) in the
payment of any fees or monies owed to the village for any reason whatsoever, or
in the performance of any obligation whatsoever owed to the village (whether
such obligations arise from the provisions of this code, the terms of any
relevant contract or agreement entered into by and between the village and the
person or entity in question; the standard practices, policies or requirements
of any department of the village; or the provisions of any applicable law), the
village and the proper personnel of its various departments shall, with respect
to such delinquent person or entity, be authorized to withhold or suspend the
issuance of any permit or approval, the performance of any service, the
processing of any application, the conduct of any review or process or the
performance of any other action whatsoever and without limitation that such
delinquent person or entity may from time to time or at any time request from
the village, whether or not the delinquency in question arises from or relates
to the permit, approval, review, process, service or action at issue, and to
continue such withholding or suspension until such time as the delinquency in
question shall be fully corrected, remediated and otherwise brought into
compliance.
(Prior Code, § 43.03) (Ord. 0008-03, passed 2-19-2003; Ord. 12-1017, passed 11-
7-2012)
APPENDIX A: SQUARE FOOT CONSTRUCTION COSTS
Group (2018 International Building Code) IA IB IIA IIB IIIA IIIB IV VA VB
Group (2018
International    IA     IB     IIA    IIB    IIIA   IIIB   IV     VA     VB
Building Code)
A-1 Assembly,
theaters, with   263.06 254.15 247.55 237.53 223.05 216.60 229.90 207.42 199.94
stage
A-1 Assembly,
theaters,        241.02 232.11 225.51 215.49 201.01 194.56 207.86 185.38 177.89
without stage
A-2 Assembly,    205.93 199.80 194.89 186.91 176.19 171.34 180.27 159.46 154.02
nightclubs
A-2 Assembly,
restaurants,     204.93 198.80 192.89 185.91 174.19 170.34 179.27 157.46 153.02
bars, banquet
halls
A-3 Assembly,    243.83 234.92 228.32 218.30 204.21 198.79 210.67 188.58 181.10
churches
A-3 Assembly,
general,
community halls, 204.02 195.11 187.51 178.49 163.01 157.56 170.86 147.38 140.89
libraries,
museums
A-4 Assembly,    240.02 231.11 223.51 214.49 199.01 193.56 206.86 183.38 176.89
arenas
B Business       212.46 204.72 197.90 188.18 171.81 165.32 180.77 151.15 144.35
E Educational    222.69 214.99 208.81 199.81 186.17 176.74 192.93 162.78 157.80
F-1 Factory and
industrial,      125.58 119.68 112.86 108.68 97.37  92.83  104.02 80.23  75.34
moderate hazard
F-2 Factory and
Industrial, low  124.58 118.68 112.86 107.68 97.37  91.83  103.02 80.23  74.34
hazard
H-1 High Hazard, 117.37 111.47 105.65 100.47 90.40  84.87  95.81  73.27  N.P.
explosives
H234 High Hazard 117.37 111.47 105.65 100.47 90.40  84.87  95.81  73.27  67.37
H-5 HPM          212.46 204.72 197.90 188.18 171.81 165.32 180.77 151.15 144.35
I-
1 Institutional, 211.58 204.34 198.27 190.28 175.02 170.20 190.53 156.95 152.25
supervised
environment
I-
2 Institutional, 355.95 348.21 341.39 331.67 314.48 N.P.   324.26 293.82 N.P.
hospitals
I-
2 Institutional, 247.27 239.53 232.71 222.99 207.36 N.P.   215.58 186.70 N.P.
nursing homes
I-
3 Institutional, 241.59 233.85 227.03 217.31 202.46 194.97 209.90 181.80 173.00
restrained
I-
4 Institutional, 211.58 204.34 198.27 190.28 175.02 170.20 190.53 156.95 152.25
day care
facilities
M Mercantile     153.55 147.41 141.50 134.53 123.48 119.63 127.88 106.75 102.31
R-1 Residential, 213.59 206.35 200.28 192.29 176.78 171.95 192.54 158.70 154.00
hotels
R-2 Residential, 179.04 171.80 165.73 157.74 143.25 138.43 157.99 125.18 120.47
multiple family
R-3 Residential,
one- and two-    166.68 162.17 157.99 154.10 149.61 144.19 151.48 138.79 130.58
family
R-4 Residential,
care/assisted    211.58 204.34 198.27 190.28 175.02 170.20 190.53 156.95 152.25
living
facilities
S-1 Storage,     116.37 110.47 103.65 99.47  88.40  83.87  94.81  71.27  66.37
moderate hazard
S-2 Storage, low 115.37 109.47 103.65 98.47  88.40  82.87  93.81  71.27  65.37
hazard
U Utility,       89.90  84.75  79.27  75.71  67.97  63.50  72.24  53.83  51.28
miscellaneous
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 43, App. A) (Ord. 21-1709, passed 6-16-2021)
CHAPTER 44: TAXATION
Section
Tax Rights and Responsibilities
   
44.001   Title
   
44.002   Scope
   
44.003   Definitions
   
44.004   Notices
   
44.005   Late payment
   
44.006   Payment
   
44.007   Certain credits and refunds
   
44.008   Audit procedure
   
44.009   Appeal
   
44.010   Hearing
   
44.011   Interest and penalties
   
44.012   Abatement
   
44.013   Installment contracts
   
44.014   Statute of limitations
   
44.015   Voluntary disclosure
   
44.016   Publication of tax ordinances
   
44.017   Review procedure
Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
   
44.030   Imposition; rate
   
44.031   Report required; payment
Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
   
44.045   Imposition; rate
   
44.046   Collection
Municipal Replacement Vehicle Tax
   
44.060   Imposition; rate
   
44.061   Report required; payment
Self-Storage Facility Tax
   
44.075   Short title
   
44.076   Definitions
   
44.077   Tax imposed
   
44.078   Books and records
   
44.079   Payment and penalty for nonpayment
Tax Abatement Program for New Nonresidential Development
   
44.090   Creation
   
44.091   Eligibility
   
44.092   Application; review by Mayor’s Council for Economic Development
   
44.093   Decision of Village Board
   
44.094   Documents
Hotel and Motel Room Tax
   
44.105   Definitions
   
44.106   Tax rate
   
44.107   Books and records
   
44.108   Transmittal of tax revenue
   
44.109   Collection
   
44.110   Proceeds of tax and fines
Occupation Taxes
   
44.125   Home rule municipal retailer’s occupation tax; imposition
   
44.126   Municipal service occupation tax; imposition
   
44.127   Collection and enforcement
   
44.128   Municipal cannabis retailers’ occupation tax
Motor Fuel Tax
   
44.140   Motor Fuel Tax
Food and Beverage Tax
   
44.155   Definitions
   
44.156   Imposition of tax
   
44.157   Collection and administration of tax
   
44.158   Enforcement; penalties
Municipal Real Estate Transfer Tax
   
44.170   Definitions
   
44.171   Tax imposed
   
44.172   Liability for tax
   
44.173   Declaration forms
   
44.174   Deeds; exemptions
   
44.175   Revenue stamps required
   
44.176   Transfer in trust or transfer of controlling interest in a real estate
entity owning property within the village
   
44.177   Recordation of deeds
   
44.178   Proceeds of tax
   
44.179   Violation of provisions
   
44.180   Payment of other municipal charges and accounts
   
44.181   Refund of tax
Municipal Gas Use Tax
   
44.195   Short title
   
44.196   Definitions
   
44.197   Tax imposed
   
44.198   Collection of tax
   
44.199   Books and records
   
44.200   Application of tax to large users
Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax and
Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax
   
44.215   Municipal grocery retailers’ occupation tax imposed
   
44.216   Municipal grocery service occupation tax
   
44.217   State Department of Revenue to administer both taxes
   
44.218   Effective date
 
   
44.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business licensing regulations, see Title XI
**** TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES ****
§ 44.001 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Village of
Romeoville Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 44.01) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.002 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village’s procedures in
connection with all of its locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Prior Code, § 44.02) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The President and Board of Trustees of the village.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Finance Director is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR to act in the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR’S stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code (35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.) or fees collected by the village
other than infrastructure maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Romeoville, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 44.03) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.004 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class mail, addressed to the persons concerned at the
persons’ last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Prior Code, § 44.04) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.005 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable United States postmark dated on or before the due date, properly
addressed to the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Prior Code, § 44.05) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.006 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Prior Code, § 44.06) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.007 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Prior Code, § 44.07) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.008 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the date of the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. In such a case, the audit shall be conducted not less than seven
days nor more than 30 days from the date the original notice is given, unless
the taxpayer and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient
time, and the local tax administrator shall send notice to the tax payer
notifying the taxpayer of the new audit date resulting from the taxpayer’s
request for an extension. In the event taxpayer is unable to comply with the
audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may request another date within the
30 days from the date of the audit as stated in the original notice, approved
in writing by the taxpayer and the local tax administrator, that is convenient
to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or person
collecting the tax fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within
the time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination
and assessment based on the tax administrator’s determination of the best
estimate of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Prior Code, § 44.08) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.009 APPEAL.
   (A)   (1)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a
taxpayer upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of
tax due, a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any
tax.
      (2)   The notice shall include the following information:
         (a)   The reason for the assessment;
         (b)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         (c)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         (d)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund
and collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Prior Code, § 44.09) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.010 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
44.009, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Prior Code, § 44.10) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.011 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The village provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of the tax, to be 2% per
calendar month, or any fraction thereof.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance, nor shall the late filing or payment penalty herein imposed apply if
the controlling ordinance imposes a late filing or late payment penalty;
provided that such penalty conforms to the limits established by the Act.
(Prior Code, § 44.11) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.012 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Prior Code, § 44.12) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.013 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment under such an installment contract is
30 days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have 14 working days to cure any
delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the 14-day
period or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment
contract with the local administrator, the installment contract shall be
canceled without further notice to the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 44.13) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.014 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the village,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 44.14) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.015 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer.
(Prior Code, § 44.15) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.016 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the foregoing publication requirements. Copies of all
tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the
Village Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 44.16) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.017 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local tax administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Prior Code, § 44.17) (Ord. 04-0123, passed 2-18-2004)
**** MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX ****
§ 44.030 IMPOSITION; RATE.
   A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of renting
automobiles in this village at a rate of 1% of the gross receipts from the
rentals made in the course of such business while this subchapter is in effect,
in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-7.
(Prior Code, § 122.01) (Ord. 813, passed 1-6-1982)
§ 44.031 REPORT REQUIRED; PAYMENT.
   Every person engaged in the business of renting automobiles in the village
shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the
State Department of Revenue, required by §§ 2 and 3 of “An Act in Relation to a
Tax upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property
to Purchasers for Use Consumption,” approved June 29, 1933, as amended. At the
time the report is filed, there shall be paid to the State Department of
Revenue the amount of tax imposed on account of the renting of automobiles
during the preceding month.
(Prior Code, § 122.02) (Ord. 813, passed 1-6-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Retailers Occupation Tax Act, see 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
**** MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX ****
§ 44.045 IMPOSITION; RATE.
   A tax is imposed on the privilege of using in this village an automobile
which is rented from a rentor outside the state and which is titled or
registered with an agency of this state’s government in this village at a rate
of 1% of the rental price of the automobile while this subchapter is in effect,
in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-8.
(Prior Code, § 122.10) (Ord. 814, passed 1-6-1982)
§ 44.046 COLLECTION.
   The tax provided for in this subchapter shall be collected from the persons
whose state address for titling or registration purposes is given as being in
this village.
(Prior Code, § 122.11) (Ord. 814, passed 1-6-1982)
**** MUNICIPAL REPLACEMENT VEHICLE TAX ****
§ 44.060 IMPOSITION; RATE.
   A tax is imposed upon each vehicle, as defined in § l-146 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-146), purchased in this village by or on behalf of
an insurance company to replace a vehicle of an insured person in settlement of
a total loss claim. The tax shall be in the amount of $50 per vehicle
purchased.
(Prior Code, § 122.20) (Ord. 887, passed 4-18-1984)
§ 44.061 REPORT REQUIRED; PAYMENT.
   Every insurance company that purchases a replacement vehicle shall complete
and file with the State Department of Revenue a replacement vehicle certificate
(Form RVT-7). At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax imposed.
(Prior Code, § 122.21) (Ord. 887, passed 4-18-1984)
**** SELF-STORAGE FACILITY TAX ****
§ 44.075 SHORT TITLE.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be known as the “self-storage
facility tax” and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the
village, the state or any other municipal corporation or political subdivision
thereof.
(Ord. 23-1858, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 44.076 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDIVIDUAL STORAGE SPACE. Within the self-storage facility, any space rented
or leased by a person for the purpose of storing personal property.
   OCCUPANT. A person, their sublessee, successor or assigns, entitled to the
use of the storage space at a self-storage facility under a rental agreement.
   OWNER. The owner, operator, lessor or sublessor of a self-storage facility,
their agent or any other person authorized by them to manage the facility, or
to receive rent from all occupants under a rental agreement.
   PERSON. Any individual, copartnership, firm, association, joint stock
company, corporation or any combination of individuals of whatever form or
character.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Movable property not affixed to land and includes, but is
not limited to, goods, merchandise, household items, tools, machinery and
equipment.
   RENTAL AGREEMENT. Any agreement or lease, written or oral, that establishes
or modifies the terms, conditions, rules or any other provisions concerning the
use of a self-storage facility.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. Any real property designed and used for the purpose
of renting or leasing storage space to occupants for the purpose of storing and
removing personal property. A SELF-STORAGE FACILITY, as defined in this
section, is not a warehouse for the purpose of Article 7 of the Uniform
Commercial Code, 810 ILCS 5/7-101 et seq. In the event an owner issues any
warehouse receipt, bill of lading or other document of title for the personal
property stored, the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code, 810 ILCS 5/1-
101 et seq., do not apply.
(Ord. 23-1858, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 44.077 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is imposed and shall accrue and shall be collected a tax as herein
provided upon the rental or leasing of any individual storage space in the
village at the rate of 5% of the gross rental or leasing charge. The ultimate
incidence of and liability for payment of the tax imposed by this section shall
be borne by the occupant of any such individual storage space. The tax shall be
in addition to any and all other taxes. It shall be the duty of every owner of
every self-storage facility to collect the tax from the occupant and pay over
to the Village Treasurer tax under the rules and regulations prescribed by the
village corporate authorities and as otherwise provided by this section.
(Ord. 23-1858, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 44.078 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The owner of any self-storage facility shall maintain complete and accurate
books, records and accounts showing the gross receipts from rental charges and
the tax collected each month, which shall be made available to the village or
its designee for examination and for audit by the village upon reasonable
notice and during customary business hours.
(Ord. 23-1858, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 44.079 PAYMENT AND PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   Every owner within the village shall file with the Village Treasurer a
sworn tax return on a quarterly basis, due not later than the fifteenth day of
every fourth month commencing with the date of a business license issued
showing tax receipts received with respect to storage space rented or leased
during the preceding monthly period and upon forms prescribed by the Village
Treasurer. At the time of filing the return, the owner shall pay to the Village
Treasurer all taxes due for the period to which the return applies.
   (B)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of 2% per month on the amount of tax which remains unpaid shall be added and
collected. Whenever any person shall fail to pay any amounts as herein
provided, upon request of the Village Treasurer, the Village Attorney shall
bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of taxes on
behalf of the village in any court of competent jurisdiction, or before an
administrative hearing officer pursuant to
Chapter 41, with costs of such enforcement to be borne by the owner.
(Ord. 23-1858, passed 7-19-2023)
**** TAX ABATEMENT PROGRAM FOR NEW NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ****
§ 44.090 CREATION.
   There is established eligibility requirements and procedures for the
abatement of property taxes for new nonresidential construction and development
within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 122.30) (Res. 375-85, passed 1-2-1985)
§ 44.091 ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Eligible developers shall be limited to any nonresidential
developments in excess of one acre in land area or 5,000 square feet of usable
floor area, whichever is less.
   (B)   Development must commence within one year following approval of the
development plan by the village.
   (C)   Taxes to be abated shall apply only to the improvements as proposed
and to any increased value in the land as a result of the improvements.
   (D)   Taxes to be abated shall not exceed 50% of the value of the taxes
which would have been paid over a five-year period had the tax abatement not
been granted.
   (E)   In all cases, applications for tax abatement will not be considered
unless there is evidence and finding that the development in question will
locate in an area other than the village were it not for the issuance of tax
abatement.
   (F)   In all cases, applications for tax abatement will not be considered by
the village if a building permit has been issued for the property in question.
(Prior Code, § 122.31) (Res. 375-85, passed 1-2-1985; Res. 476-86, passed 10-8-
1986)
§ 44.092 APPLICATION; REVIEW BY MAYOR’S COUNCIL FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Applications for tax abatement shall be filed with the Village Clerk,
who in turn shall forward the application to the Chair of the Mayor’s Council
for Economic Development.
   (B)   The Mayor’s Council for Economic Development, shall, following receipt
of application, meet and review the application, and shall:
      (1)   Make determination of the total assessed value of the proposed
development and economic impact the development will have on the village;
      (2)   Make findings that abatement of taxes is necessary and proper to
ensure successful completion of the proposed development; and
      (3)   Forward a recommendation to the Village Board not later than 45
days following receipt of the application.
(Prior Code, § 122.32) (Res. 375-85, passed 1-2-1985)
§ 44.093 DECISION OF VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board shall, within 30 days, review findings and recommendations
of the Mayor’s Council for Economic Development, and following a public
hearing, may grant the requested tax abatement. The concurring vote of four of
the elected members of the Village Board shall be necessary to reverse the
recommendations of the Mayor’s Council for Economic Development. The concurring
vote of the majority of the elected members of the Village Board shall be
necessary to approve or concur with the recommendations of the Mayor’s Council
for Economic Development.
(Prior Code, § 122.33) (Res. 375-85, passed 1-2-1985)
§ 44.094 DOCUMENTS.
   Upon approval and adoption of an ordinance by the Village Board, the Village
Attorney shall cause the ordinance to be filed with the County Recorder of
Deeds and the County Clerk. The Village Board shall also authorize and execute
any and all other documents as may be necessary to effect the intents and
purpose of the abatement ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 122.34) (Res. 375-85, passed 1-2-1985)
**** HOTEL AND MOTEL ROOM TAX ****
§ 44.105 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL ROOM or MOTEL ROOM. A room within a structure offered for rental on a
daily basis and containing facilities for sleeping. One room offered for rental
with or without an adjoining bath shall be considered as a single hotel or
motel room. The number of HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOMS within a suite shall be computed
on the basis of those rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping.
   OWNER. Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the
operation of a hotel or motel room or receiving the consideration for the
rental of such hotel or motel rooms.
(Prior Code, § 122.40) (Ord. 1029-88, passed 3-2-1988)
§ 44.106 TAX RATE.
   (A)   (1)   There is levied and imposed a tax of 9% of the rent charged for
the privilege and use of renting a hotel or motel room within the village for
each 24-hour period or any portion thereof for which a daily room charge is
made; provided that the tax shall be imposed on and applicable to hotel stays
of 28 days or less. Persons residing in a hotel or motel that employs them
shall be exempt from payment of the tax.
      (2)   In the event that any person engaged in the business of owning and
operating any hotel or motel within the village allows or permits any person
not employed by said hotel or motel to stay and reside therein for any period
of time in excess of 28 days, there shall be a tax imposed on the owner or
operator of such hotel in the amount of $1,000 per each person so residing in
the hotel or motel person per each 28-period and any prorated fractional part
thereof, with the calculation of such period of time to commence on the first
day of occupancy of the hotel or motel occupant in question, subject to the
exemptions hereinafter set forth:
         (a)   Persons residing in the hotel or motel in excess of 28 days in
connection with work or business activities of an employer located within the
village or within the Chicago metropolitan area, as evidenced by written
documentation between the hotel or motel operator and the employer in question;
         (b)   Persons residing in the hotel or motel in excess of 28 days who
are relatives of or caregivers for patients admitted at a hospital within the
Chicago metropolitan area;
         (c)   Persons residing in the hotel or motel in excess of 28 days as a
result of fire, flood, tornado or other similar natural disaster or weather
related casualty, when reasonably documented by the relevant insurer or
governmental agency; and
         (d)   Persons residing in the hotel or motel in excess of 28 days who
are victims of domestic violence, sexual violence or violence directed at a
person relating to that person’s disability, where domestic violence and sexual
violence shall have the meanings set forth in 765 ILCS 750/10, and where
disability shall have the meaning set forth in the Illinois Human Rights Act,
775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., subject to the existence of a reasonably documented
agreement or arrangement between the hotel or motel and any government agency
or not for profit organization relative to the provision of temporary
transitional lodging for such persons.
      (3)   Subject to the exemptions identified in divisions (A)(2)(a) through
(A)(2)(d) above, no person engaged in the business of owning and operating any
hotel or motel within the village shall allow or permit any person not employed
by said hotel or motel to stay and reside therein for any period of time in
excess of 28 days. Likewise, and subject to the exemptions identified in
divisions (A)(2)(a) through (A)(2)(d) above, no person that has resided in a
village hotel or motel for 28 days shall reside further in such hotel or motel
without vacating from the same for a period of 48 hours.
      (4)   Hotel room and motel room maximum occupancy shall be limited to the
number of bed spaces within the hotel or motel room in question. Each queen
size and king size bed within a hotel or motel room shall count as two bed
spaces, with each such queen or king size bed thereby permitting two persons to
occupy the hotel room or motel room in question. Each twin or full size bed
shall count as one bed space, permitting one person to occupy the hotel or
motel room in question. Each rollaway bed shall count as one bed space
permitting one person to occupy the hotel or motel room in question, but not
more than one rollaway bed shall be permitted to be used within a hotel or
motel room at any given time. Nor more than two non-rollway beds shall be
permitted to be used within a hotel room or a motel room at any given time. No
person engaged in the business of owning and operating any hotel or motel
within the village shall allow or permit any hotel or motel room to be occupied
by any number of persons greater than the number of bed spaces lawfully present
within such hotel room or motel room.
   (B)   The ultimate incidence of any liability for payment of the tax is to
be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or motel
room, hereinafter referred to as the renter.
   (C)   The tax levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other taxes
and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or motel to
secure the tax from the renter of the motel and hotel room and to pay over to
the Village Treasurer or any authorized representative of their office the tax
under procedures prescribed by the Village Treasurer, or as otherwise provided
in this subchapter.
   (D)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this subchapter
shall secure the tax from the renter at the time they collect the rental
payment for the hotel or motel room.
(Prior Code, § 122.41) (Ord. 1029-88, passed 3-2-1988; Ord. 06-0401, passed 4-
19-2006; Ord. 14-1090, passed 2-5-2014; Ord. 24-1896, passed 1-17-2024)
Statutory reference:
   For state law as to hotel or motel room tax, see 26 U.S.C. subtitle C, ch.
24 (§§ 3401 through 3451) and 65 ILCS 5/8-3-14a
§ 44.107 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer or their authorized representative may enter the
premises of any hotel or motel for inspection and examination of records in
order to effectuate the proper administration of this subchapter and to assure
the enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere
with the Village Treasurer or their authorized deputy or representative in the
discharge of their duties in the performance of this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the Village Treasurer or their authorized
representative shall at all times have full access. Such records shall include
a daily sheet showing the number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the 24-
hour period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel or motel room where
such shall occur, and the actual hotel or motel tax receipts collected for the
date in question.
(Prior Code, § 122.42) (Ord. 1029-88, passed 3-2-1988) Penalty, see §
44.999
§ 44.108 TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE.
   (A)   The owner or owners of each hotel or motel room within the village
shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received with respect to each hotel
or motel room during each month from the first date of operation of the
business. The return shall be due on or before the last day of each succeeding
calendar month, and the return shall indicate for what period the return is to
be filed; for example, a return for January tax receipts shall be due on or
before the last day of February. If the owner’s average monthly tax liability
does not exceed $60, the Village Treasurer may authorize the owner to file the
returns to be filed on a quarter annual basis, with the return for January,
February and March of a given year being due by April 30 of such year; with the
return for April, May and June being due by July 31 of such year; with the
return for July, August and September of a given year being due by October 31
of such year; and with the return for October, November and December of a given
year being due by January 31 of the following year.
   (B)   At the time of filing the tax returns, the owners shall pay to the
Village Treasurer all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   (C)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of 1.5% per 30-day period, or portion thereof, from the date of delinquency
shall be added and collected.
(Prior Code, § 122.43) (Ord. 1029-88, passed 3-2-1988) Penalty, see §
44.999
§ 44.109 COLLECTION.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the
Village Attorney shall, on the request of the Village Treasurer, bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax on behalf of the
village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 122.44) (Ord. 1029-88, passed 3-2-1988) Penalty, see §
44.999
§ 44.110 PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this subchapter,
including penalties, shall be applied as follows.
   (A)   At least 5% of the gross tax revenue collected each year shall be
appropriated for and directed to the Finance Department to defray the costs of
administering and processing the imposition, application and collection of the
tax.
   (B)   Fifty percent of the net revenue collected each year shall be
appropriated to the Recreation Department to develop activities which encourage
tourism within the village or might otherwise attract nonresident overnight
visitors to the village.
   (C)   Any remaining net revenue collected each year, not exceeding 45%,
shall be transferred to the Village Treasury to be retained until lawfully
appropriated and expended by ordinance by the Village Board for activities
which promote tourism and conventions within the village or might otherwise
attract nonresident overnight visitors to the village.
(Prior Code, § 122.45) (Ord. 1029-88, passed 3-2-1988)
**** OCCUPATION TAXES ****
§ 44.125 HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX; IMPOSITION.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by, and in accordance with the provisions
of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, as amended, a tax is imposed, effective as of July 1,
2004, upon all persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property at retail within the corporate limits of the village (other than an
item of tangible personal property title or registered with an agency of the
government of the state), at a rate of 1% of the gross receipts from all such
sales made in the course of such business while the provisions of this section
are in effect. Effective as of January 1, 2010, the tax imposed shall be
imposed at the rate of 1.5% of the gross receipts from all such sales made in
the course of such business while the provisions of this section are in effect.
The tax imposed shall not be imposed upon the sale of food for human
consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics.
(Prior Code, § 122.50) (Ord. 04-0124, passed 2-18-2004; Ord. 09-0784, passed 9-
16-2009; Ord. 09-0796, passed 11-18-2009)
§ 44.126 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX; IMPOSITION.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by, and in accordance with the provisions
of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5, as amended, a tax is imposed, effective as of July 1,
2004, upon all persons engaged in the business of making sales of service at a
rate of 1% of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred
by such serviceperson either in the form of tangible personal property or in
the form of real estate as an incident to a sale of service. Effective as of
January 1, 2010, the tax imposed shall be imposed at the rate of 1.5% of the
selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such
serviceperson either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form
of real estate as an incident to a sale of service. The tax imposed shall not
be imposed upon the sale of food for human consumption that is to be consumed
off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks
and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics.
(Prior Code, § 122.51) (Ord. 04-0124, passed 2-18-2004; Ord. 09-0784, passed 9-
16-2009; Ord. 09-0796, passed 11-18-2009)
§ 44.127 COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The collection and enforcement of the taxes imposed by §§
44.125 and
44.126 (and any civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereof)
shall be collected and enforced by the State Department of Revenue. The State
Department of Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of §§
44.125 and
44.126.
(Prior Code, § 122.52) (Ord. 04-0124, passed 2-18-2004)
§ 44.128 MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed; rate. A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling cannabis at retail in the village (other than cannabis
purchased under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act) at
a rate of 3% of the gross receipts from those sales made in the course of that
business. The tax imposed shall be paid in addition to any and all other taxes
and charges imposed by law or ordinance.
   (B)   Authority. The tax imposed in this section is imposed pursuant to the
Illinois Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax Law, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-23 et
seq. (the “Act”).
   (C)   Collection of tax by retailers. The tax imposed by this section shall
be remitted by such retailer to the State Department of Revenue (the
“Department”). Any tax required to be collected to or as authorized by this
section and any such tax collected by such retailer and required to be remitted
to the Department shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state.
The Department shall collect all taxes imposed by this section and all civil
penalties that may be assessed incident thereto, and the Department shall have
full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 122.53) (Ord. 19-1593, passed 9-18-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, see 410 ILCS 130/1 et
seq.
**** MOTOR FUEL TAX ****
§ 44.140 MOTOR FUEL TAX.
   (A)   Motor fuel tax; imposition. Commencing with retail purchases of motor
fuel made on May 1, 2006 and for all such purchases made thereafter, there
shall be imposed and levied a tax upon the retail purchase of motor fuel within
the corporate limits of the village, at the rate of $0.04 per gallon or
fraction thereof irrespective of the unit of measure in which such motor fuel
is actually purchased. The tax imposed shall be in addition to any and all
other taxes imposed thereon. Each motor fuel retailer within the village shall
have the duty to secure the payment of the tax imposed from the purchaser of
the motor fuel at the time such motor fuel retailer collects the purchase price
from such purchaser, and to transmit the tax so collected as hereinafter
provided. Nothing herein shall be construed to impose any tax whatsoever on the
occupation of persons engaged in the sale of motor fuel, and the ultimate
incidence of and liability for the payment of the tax imposed shall at all
times be borne by the retail purchaser of motor fuel. As used in this chapter,
the term MOTOR FUEL shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Motor Fuel
Tax Law, 35 ILCS 505/1 et seq.; the term MOTOR FUEL RETAILER shall mean any
person engaged within the limits of the village in the business of selling
motor fuel to purchasers for use or consumption and not for resale in any form;
and the term PERSON shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Motor Fuel
Tax Law, 35 ILCS 505/1 et seq. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this
division (A), commencing with retail purchases of motor fuel made on May 1,
2010 and for all such purchases made thereafter, the rate of the tax imposed
and levied by this division (A) shall be $0.05 per gallon or fraction thereof,
irrespective of the unit of measure in which such fuel is actually purchased.
Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this division (A), commencing with
retail purchases of motor fuel made on September 1, 2015 and for all such
purchases made thereafter, the rate of the tax imposed and levied by this
division (A) shall be $0.05 per gallon of motor fuel or motor fuel gallon
equivalent or fraction thereof, irrespective of the unit of measure in which
such fuel is actually purchased for all motor fuel other than diesel fuel, and
the rate of the tax imposed and levied by this division (A) for diesel fuel
shall be $0.07 per gallon of diesel fuel or diesel fuel gallon equivalent or
fraction thereof, irrespective of the unit of measure in which such fuel is
actually purchased. As used herein, DIESEL FUEL shall mean any product intended
for use or offered for sale as a fuel for engines in which the fuel is injected
into the combustion chamber and ignited by pressure without electric spark. As
used herein, MOTOR FUEL GALLON EQUIVALENT shall mean and include that amount of
compressed natural gas that produces the same number of British thermal units
as a gallon of gasoline, as gasoline is defined under the Illinois Motor Fuel
Tax Law, 35 ILCS 505/1 et seq., which amount is determined to be 126 cubic feet
of compressed natural gas and DIESEL FUEL GALLON EQUIVALENT shall mean and
include that amount of liquefied natural gas that produces the same number of
British thermal units as a gallon of diesel fuel, as hereinabove defined, which
amount is determined to be 1.7 gallons of liquefied natural gas.
Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this division (A), commencing with
retail purchases of motor fuel made on June 1, 2018 and for all such purchases
made thereafter, the rate of the tax imposed and levied by this division (A)
shall be $0.06 per gallon of motor fuel or motor fuel gallon equivalent or
fraction thereof, irrespective of the unit of measure in which such fuel is
actually purchased for all motor fuel other than diesel fuel, and the rate of
the tax imposed and levied by this division (A) for diesel fuel shall be $0.09
per gallon of diesel fuel or diesel fuel gallon equivalent or fraction thereof,
irrespective of the unit of measure in which such fuel is actually purchased.
As used herein, DIESEL FUEL shall mean any product intended for use or offered
for sale as a fuel for engines in which the fuel is injected into the
combustion chamber and ignited by pressure without electric spark. As used
herein, MOTOR FUEL GALLON EQUIVALENT shall mean and include that amount of
compressed natural gas that produces the same number of British thermal units
as a gallon of gasoline, as gasoline is defined under the Illinois Motor Fuel
Tax Law, 35 ILCS 505/1 et seq., which amount is determined to be 126 cubic feet
of compressed natural gas and DIESEL FUEL GALLON EQUIVALENT shall mean and
include that amount of liquefied natural gas that produces the same number of
British thermal units as a gallon of diesel fuel, as hereinabove defined, which
amount is determined to be 1.7 gallons of liquefied natural gas.
   (B)   Collection and payment of tax; filing of return. Not later than the
last day of each calendar month, each motor fuel retailer within the village
shall be obligated to transmit to the Village Finance Department a sum of money
equal to the amount of motor fuel tax collected by such motor fuel retailer
during the preceding calendar month, together with a return containing an
accounting thereof, to be made on such forms as are provided by the Village
Finance Department from time to time, and which shall, at a minimum, state the
gross number of gallons of motor fuel purchased from such motor fuel retailer
during such preceding calendar month.
   (C)   Registration; recordkeeping. Each motor fuel retailer located within
the village shall register with the village on forms provided from time to time
by the Finance Department. Furthermore, each motor fuel retailer located within
the village shall have the duty and obligation to maintain full and complete
books and records showing the gross number of gallons purchased in each day and
each calendar month from such motor fuel retailer, the gross receipts in each
day and each calendar month resulting from such purchases and the amount of
motor fuel tax collected each day and each calendar month from the purchasers
of such motor fuel pursuant to the provisions of this section. Such records
shall be available within the village for examination and audit during all
regular business hours of the Village Finance Department.
   (D)   Late payment charges.
      (1)   Interest on past due motor fuel taxes. In the event that any motor
fuel retailer required under this subchapter to file a motor fuel tax return to
the village fails in any given calendar month:
         (a)   To file such return when and as required under this subchapter;
or
         (b)   To transmit the entire amount of motor fuel tax due and payable
to the village as and when due and payable pursuant to this subchapter, such
person shall pay to the village, in addition to the entire amount of tax
required to be transmitted, a late payment charge of 5% of the entire amount of
such tax that such person is required to have been transmitted to the village.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing late payment charge, any amount of tax
not transmitted when due shall bear interest at the rate of 2% per month, or
fraction thereof, until fully transmitted to the village as required by this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 122.60) (Ord. 04-0125, passed 2-18-2004; Ord. 06-0395, passed 4-
5-2006; Ord. 10-0843, passed 4-7-2010; Ord. 15-1209, passed 8-5-2015; Ord. 18-
1474, passed 4-4-2018)
**** FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX ****
§ 44.155 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Has the meaning set forth in §
112.001.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR FACILITY. Those premises from which any person has been
issued a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail that permits the
consumption of such alcoholic liquor upon such premises.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, corporation, company, representative or
entity of any kind without limitation. When used in reference to any
corporation, firm, company or entity, the same shall also include and refer to
the officers, members, managers or others responsible for or capable of causing
the same to act or to fail to act in relation to any of the provisions of this
subchapter.
   PREPARED FOOD. Any and all foods, beverages (including alcoholic liquor),
solids, liquids (whether or not such liquids are or contain alcoholic liquor)
or other matter regardless of the physical form in which the same exists, used
or intended to be used, for human consumption and the nourishment of the human
body, where the same has been prepared for immediate consumption, whether on or
off the premises of the retailer. The term shall exclude the following:
      (1)   Any item sold within a hermetically sealed container; provided,
however, that the foregoing exclusion shall not apply to any alcoholic liquors
in the manufacturer’s package and all such packaged liquors shall be deemed to
be prepared food as defined within this section for all relevant purposes under
this chapter;
      (2)   Any item reasonably expected to require cooking or other processing
prior to consumption;
      (3)   Any items prepared for immediate consumption upon the premises of
any not-for-profit entity recognized as tax exempt by the Internal Revenue
Service, any public or private school, any day care facility, any nursing home,
retirement home or other similar residential care facility or any hospital; or
      (4)   Any items purchased from a vending machine for which a valid
village license is in full force and effect.
   PREPARED FOOD RETAILER. Any person who offers prepared food for sale for use
or consumption and not for resale, and specifically shall include, without
limitation, the licensee of an alcoholic liquor facility.
   RETAIL. Denotes any sale for use or consumption and not for resale,
inclusive of all types of transfers and exchanges, whether for money, credit,
barter or other consideration.
(Prior Code, § 122.65) (Ord. 09-0783, passed 9-16-2009; Ord. 09-0795, passed
11-18-2009)
§ 44.156 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this section, effective as of May
1, 2014, the rate of the tax levied and imposed on the privilege of purchasing
prepared food at retail other than alcoholic liquor shall be 1.25%, and the
rate of such tax levied and imposed on the privilege of purchasing prepared
food at retail consisting of alcoholic liquor shall be 3%.
(Prior Code, § 122.66) (Ord. 09-0783, passed 9-16-2009; Ord. 14-1105, passed 4-
2-2014)
§ 44.157 COLLECTION AND ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   All prepared food retailers shall be jointly and severally responsible
to collect and account for the tax imposed by this subchapter from each
purchaser of prepared food at the time of the payment of the consideration for
each such purchase. Such tax shall be separately stated on the receipt of other
memorialization of the purchase transaction provided to the purchaser of
prepared food. Upon receipt of the payment of such tax, it shall be the duty of
each prepared food retailer to pay over all such taxes collected to the village
in the manner prescribed by this subchapter.
   (B)   All prepared food retailers shall likewise be jointly and severally
responsible for the keeping and maintaining of complete and accurate accounts,
books and records showing gross receipts received each day from the sale at
retail of prepared food. Such books and records shall be made available to the
village for examination, copying and auditing during regular business hours of
the Finance Department at a location within the corporate limits of the village
upon the request of the village made with reasonable prior notice.
   (C)   Each prepared food retailer shall file a sworn monthly tax return with
the Finance Director in such form and containing such information as they may
from time to time require, but which shall, at a minimum, state the gross
receipts received by such prepared food retailer during the relevant month, and
the amount of the tax imposed by this subchapter collected thereon. Such
returns shall be filed not later than the twentieth day of the month after the
month to which the return pertains, and shall be accompanied by payment in full
of all the tax imposed pursuant to this subchapter which is due and owing with
respect to the month to which the return pertains.
   (D)   In the event that any return is not filed when due, or any tax is not
paid when due, a late filing or payment penalty shall be imposed in an amount
equal to 5% of the amount of the tax due and owing to the village with respect
to the relevant month. Such penalty shall be imposed for each month or fraction
thereof during which the return in question remains unfilled, or during which
the tax in question remains unpaid, whether in whole or in part.
   (E)   In the event that any prepared food retailer shall collect any amount
upon a transaction not subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter or
collects any amount in excess of the amount of tax imposed by that subchapter,
and such prepared food retailer does not refund the same to the purchaser who
paid the same, the prepared food retailer shall pay over all such amounts to
the village together with the tax properly due and owing and account to the
village for the same on its monthly return for the relevant month.
(Prior Code, § 122.67) (Ord. 09-0783, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 44.158 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES.
   The village may enforce the provisions of this subchapter by filing an
action in the Circuit Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit of the county.
Without otherwise limiting the foregoing, the village may bring an action to
collect payment of unpaid taxes and penalties, to compel the filing of returns
required by this subchapter or to compel the keeping of or production of books
and records required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 122.68) (Ord. 09-0783, passed 9-16-2009)
**** MUNICIPAL REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX ****
§ 44.170 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEED. All documents transferring or reflecting or effecting the transfer of
legal title, equitable title or both legal and equitable title to real
property, or the beneficial interest in a land trust or a controlling interest
in a real estate entity, as the terms “beneficial interest,” “controlling
interest” and “real estate entity” are defined in Article 31 of the Property
Tax Code, 35 ILCS 200/31-1. Without otherwise limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the term DEED, as used in this chapter, shall also expressly include
all documents and instruments evidencing or effectuating the transfer of any
leasehold interest or lessee’s interest in a ground lease (including any
interest of the lessee in the related improvements) that provides for a term of
30 or more years when all options to renew or extend are included, whether or
not any portion of the term has expired. Delivery of any DEED shall be deemed
to have occurred when the transferee or purchaser, or their representative or
agent, receives possession of the DEED or in the case of a land trust when the
trustee receives possession of a valid assignment of a beneficial interest.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, partnership,
joint venture, club, company, business trust, municipal corporation, political
subdivision of the state, domestic or foreign corporation, limited liability
company, association, syndicate, society, entity or any group of individuals
acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, non-profit or
otherwise, and the United States or any instrumentality thereof. Whenever the
term PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term
as applied to associations shall mean the owners thereof, and as applied to
corporations, the officers thereof.
   RECORDATION. The recording of deeds with the Office of the County Recorder.
   VALUE. The amount of the full actual consideration for any transfer for the
real property including the amount of any mortgage or other lien on the real
property assumed by the grantee, purchaser or buyer.
(Prior Code, § 122.70) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005; Ord. 15-1189, passed 6-
16-2015)
§ 44.171 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed on the privilege of transferring of title to real estate,
or the privilege of transferring a beneficial interest in real property, and on
the privilege of transferring a controlling interest in a real estate entity as
the terms “beneficial interest,” “controlling interest” and “real estate
entity” are defined in Article 31 of the Property Tax Code, 35 ILCS 200/31-1,
located in the village as evidenced by the recordation of a deed by any person
or by the delivery of any deed, assignment of interest in the real property,
made after June 1, 2005, whether vesting the owner with the beneficial interest
or controlling interest in or legal title to real estate. The tax imposed shall
be $1.75 for every $500 of value, or fraction thereof, as stated in the
declaration. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other
taxes. Such a tax or other fee shall hereafter be referred to as a real estate
transfer tax.
(Prior Code, § 122.71) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005)
§ 44.172 LIABILITY FOR TAX.
   The liability for payment of the real estate transfer tax shall be borne by
the grantee or buyer involved in any such transaction unless otherwise
negotiated by contract. However, it shall be unlawful for the grantee or
purchaser to accept a conveyance if the transfer tax has not been paid. The tax
herein levied shall be in addition in any and all other taxes.
(Prior Code, § 122.72) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005)
§ 44.173 DECLARATION FORMS.
   At the time the tax is paid, or an exemption is applied for, there shall
also be presented to the Village Manager or their designee on a form prescribed
by the Village Manager, a declaration in substantial accordance with the Real
Estate Transfer Tax Law as set forth in 35 ILCS 200/31-1 et seq. However, the
execution by one of the grantors or sellers or their agents, and one of the
grantees or buyers or their agents, shall be deemed sufficient under this
section. The information required to be provided in the declaration shall be
given under the oath of the person affixing their signature thereto that the
matters contained therein are true and correct. The Village Manager shall
prescribe the form on which the declaration shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 122.73) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005)
§ 44.174 DEEDS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every deed shall show the date of the transaction which it evidences,
the names of the grantor and grantee and a legal description of the property to
which it relates.
   (B)   The following deeds or trust documents shall be exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter except as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   Deeds or trust documents representing real estate transfers made on
or before June 1, 2005. In addition to the foregoing, a transfer shall be
considered to have been made prior to June 1, 2005, if a valid written contract
of sale therefor was executed by the buyer and seller prior to May 1, 2005, and
the property transferred, if in a subdivision, was a lot of record on May 1,
2005 and a declaration therefor is filed on or before July 1, 2004;
      (2)   (a)   Deeds to or trust documents relating to:
            1.   Property acquired by any governmental body or from any
governmental body;
            2.   Property or interests transferred between governmental bodies;
or
            3.   Property acquired by or from any corporation, society,
association, foundation or institution organized and operated exclusively for
charitable, religious, educational and other not for profit purposes.
         (b)   However, deeds or trust documents, other than those in which the
Administrators of Veterans’ Affairs of the United States is the grantee
pursuant to a foreclosure proceeding, shall not be exempt from filing the
declaration.
      (3)   Deeds or trust documents which secure debt or other obligation;
      (4)   Deeds or trust documents that, without additional consideration,
confirm, correct, modify or supplement a deed or trust document previously
recorded;
      (5)   Deeds or trust documents where the actual consideration is less
than $100;
      (6)   Tax deeds;
      (7)   Deeds or trust documents that release property that is security for
a debt or other obligation;
      (8)   Deeds of partition;
      (9)   Deeds or trust documents made pursuant to mergers, consolidations
or transfers or sales of substantially all of the assets of corporations under
plans of reorganization under the Federal Internal Revenue Code, Title 26
U.S.C., or Title 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C.;
      (10)   Deeds or trust documents made by a subsidiary corporation to its
parent corporation for no consideration other than the cancellation or
surrender of the subsidiary’s stock;
      (11)   Deeds when there is an actual exchange of real estate and trust
documents when there is an actual exchange of beneficial interests, except that
money difference or money’s worth paid from one to the other is not exempt from
the tax. These deeds or trust documents, however, shall not be exempt from
filing the declaration;
      (12)   Deeds issued to a holder of a mortgage, as defined in Illinois
Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/15-1207) pursuant to mortgage foreclosure
proceedings or pursuant to a transfer in lieu of foreclosure; and
      (13)   A deed or trust document related to the purchase of a principal
residence by a participant in the program authorized by the Home Ownership Made
Easy Act, except that those deeds and trust document shall not be exempt from
filing the declaration.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, all
transactions exempted from the tax imposed by this chapter shall nonetheless be
subject to the imposition of a service fee in the amount of $40 in all cases
where a declaration is required to be filed, or where the issuance of any
exempt stamp or other related documentation is requested of the village in
connection with such transactions.
(Prior Code, § 122.74) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005; Ord. 10-0841, passed 4-
7-2010)
§ 44.175 REVENUE STAMPS REQUIRED.
   The real estate transfer tax herein levied and imposed shall be collected by
the Village Manager or their designee through the sale of a revenue stamp(s),
which shall be caused to be prepared by the Village Manager in such quantities,
denominations and/or description as the Village Manager may from time to time
prescribe. Such revenue stamp(s) shall be available for sale at and during the
regular business hours of the village office or at other locations designated
by the Village Manager. Upon payment of the real estate transfer tax herein
levied and imposed, the revenue stamps so purchased shall be affixed to the
deed or other instrument of conveyance. Any person so using and affixing a
revenue stamp or stamps shall cancel it and so deface it as to render it unfit
for use by marking it with their initials and the day, month and year when the
affixing occurs. Such markings shall be made by writing or stamping in
indelible ink or by perforating with a machine or punch. However, the revenue
stamp(s) shall not be so defaced as to prevent ready determination of its
denomination and genuineness.
(Prior Code, § 122.75) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005)
§ 44.176 TRANSFER IN TRUST OR TRANSFER OF CONTROLLING INTEREST IN A REAL ESTATE
ENTITY OWNING PROPERTY WITHIN THE VILLAGE.
   No person shall accept or acknowledge the transferring of a beneficial
interest in a real property located in the village or the transfer of a
controlling interest in a real estate entity owning property located in the
village, without first obtaining a real estate transfer declaration from the
transferor and transferee and unless revenue stamps in the required amount, as
set forth in this section, have been affixed to the deed or transfer document.
(Prior Code, § 122.76) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005)
§ 44.177 RECORDATION OF DEEDS.
   After the June 1, 2005, no deed conveying real property within the
corporation limits of the village shall be entitled to recordation by the
County Recorder of Deeds unless such deed shall bear either a village real
estate transfer tax stamp in the amount required by this subchapter, or a duly
certified statement of exemption.
(Prior Code, § 122.77) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005)
§ 44.178 PROCEEDS OF TAX.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this subchapter,
including interest and penalties, shall be paid to the village and shall be
credited to and deposited in the General Fund of the village for the use for
the preservation of open space and capital improvements.
(Prior Code, § 122.78) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005)
§ 44.179 VIOLATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In the event of failure by any person to pay the tax required in this
subchapter when the same shall be due, simple interest shall accumulate and be
due upon the tax at the rate of 1.5% per month commencing as of the first day
following the day when the deed was recorded or the assignment of beneficial
interest was accepted by the trustee. In addition, a penalty of 50% of the tax
and interest due shall be assessed and collected against any person who shall
fail to pay the tax imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   In the event of failure by any person to pay the village the tax
required herein when the same shall be due, said person shall be liable to the
village for such tax together with interest and penalties. The village may
bring an action to collect such tax, interest and penalties in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In addition to any other provision of §§
44.170 through
44.181, any person found in violation of §§
44.170 through
44.181, in a court of competent jurisdiction, of violating, disobeying,
omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with any provisions of §§
44.170 through
44.181, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $750. The imposition of
any fine shall not relieve any person from the liability to pay the tax and any
penalty or interest imposed herein.
(Prior Code, § 122.79) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005) Penalty, see § 
49.999
§ 44.180 PAYMENT OF OTHER MUNICIPAL CHARGES AND ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   No real estate transfer tax stamps shall be issued for any parcel of
land located within the village unless any and all debts and other obligations
due the village with respect to said parcel or transferors or transferees have
been paid in full or obligations to the village satisfied, including, without
limitation, water use charges, sewer use charges, water connection fees, sewer
connection fees, license fees, permit fees, application fees, inspection fees,
certificate fees, board-up fees, weed cutting fees, demolition fees and
judgments in favor of the village and against transferors or transferees,
grantors or grantees and other beneficial owners or persons having a
controlling interest therein, whether or not such fees, accounts or obligations
are secured by liens or other securities and whether or not the village may
have other remedies at law or in equity.
   (B)   Any person liable for the payment of the tax imposed herein, or
authorized representative thereof, upon written request, may obtain from the
Village Manager or their designee a statement of debts that may be due the
village with respect to the parcel.
(Prior Code, § 122.80) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005)
§ 44.181 REFUND OF TAX.
   (A)   Any person who has paid the tax provided for in this subchapter shall
be entitled to a refund of the amount of such tax which they had paid on a
purchase of a subsequent residential dwelling, as hereinafter provided if, and
only if, all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The person has previously been a grantor, transferor or seller in
conjunction with the sale of a single-family attached or detached dwelling or
condominium unit within the corporate limits of the village which they have
owned and occupied solely as a principal residence immediately prior to the
sale and a real estate transfer tax under this subchapter has been paid to the
village; and
      (2)   The person has purchased, and paid a subsequent real estate
transfer tax provided for in this subchapter in conjunction with the purchase
of one single-family attached or detached dwelling or condominium unit
(residential dwelling) within the corporate limits of the village, which is
their new principal residence within one year of the date of the aforesaid
previous sale and occupies the residence on the date of application for refund;
and
      (3)   The person makes the application for refund not later than one year
after the payment has been made on the subsequent residential dwelling and
provides adequate evidence of the fulfillment of the requirements of the
refund.
   (B)   Provided that the foregoing conditions are satisfied, the person shall
be entitled to a refund of the amount of the taxes paid on the purchase of the
subsequent residential dwelling, which were actually paid by the person as a
consequence of the subsequent purchase of one single-family dwelling in the
village.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing provisions (and without otherwise
modifying or affecting the foregoing provisions), any person who has actually
paid the tax provided for in this subchapter shall also be entitled to a refund
of the amount of such tax which they had paid on a purchase of a single-family
attached or detached residential dwelling or condominium unit within the
corporate limits of the village, where such person intends to and actually
occupies such single-family attached or detached residential dwelling or
condominium unit as their principal residence, and where such person has also
been a bona fide resident of the village for not less than the six months
immediately and continuously prior to the purchase thereof. All persons seeking
a refund of tax pursuant to the preceding sentence of this subchapter shall be
required to make application for such refund within one year after payment of
the tax in question, and shall support such application with adequate evidence
of the fulfillment of the requirements of the preceding sentence of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 122.81) (Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-20-2005; Ord. 11-0939, passed
11-2-2011)
**** MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX ****
§ 44.195 SHORT TITLE.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be known as the “municipal gas use
tax” and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the village, the
state or any other municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof.
(Prior Code, § 122.90) (Ord. 06-0438, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 44.196 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT. The Public Utilities Act as amended, 220 ILCS 5/1-101
et seq.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A public utility as defined in § 3-105 of the Public
Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/3-105.
   RETAIL PURCHASER. Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
   SALE AT RETAIL. Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term RETAILER means any
person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas.
(Prior Code, § 122.91) (Ord. 06-0438, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 44.197 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this subchapter, a tax is imposed on
the privilege of using or consuming gas in the village that is purchased in a
sale at retail at the rate of $0.025 per therm and, with respect to gas used or
consumed from and after September 1, 2006, subject to the provisions of §
44.200. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as otherwise may be provided
in this subchapter, effective as of May 1, 2010, the rate of tax on the
privilege of using or consuming gas within the village that is purchased in a
sale at retail within the village shall be $0.035 per therm for all gas so
purchased and used or consumed on or after such date, subject to the provisions
of §
44.200.
   (B)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to
impose a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling
or transporting gas.
   (C)   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser’s premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant to this subchapter on or before the payment due
date of the public utility’s bill first reflecting the tax, or directly to the
Village Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second month following
the month in which the gas is delivered to the retail purchaser if no public
utility has been designated to collect the tax pursuant to this subchapter or
if the gas is delivered by a person other than a public utility so designated.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity which, under the Constitutions of the United
States or state, may not be made the subject of taxation by the village.
   (E)   A person who purchases gas for resale and therefor does not pay the
tax imposed by this subchapter with respect to the use or consumption of the
gas, but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the Village Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second
month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
   (F)   The tax shall apply to gas for which the delivery to the retail
purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after February 1, 2005.
   (G)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as a result of mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment or subject to a refund if no such tax is due or to become
due; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three years prior to
the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited or refunded.
   (H)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(Prior Code, § 122.92) (Ord. 06-0438, passed 8-16-2006; Ord. 10-0842, passed 4-
7-2010; Ord. 10-0862, passed 5-19-2010)
§ 44.198 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   The President, Village Treasurer, Village Manager and Village Finance
Director are each authorized to enter into a contract for collection of the tax
imposed by this subchapter with any public utility providing gas service in the
village.
   (B)   The contract shall include and substantially conform with the
following provisions:
      (1)   The public utility will collect the tax from retail purchasers as
an independent contractor;
      (2)   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the Village
Treasurer no more often than once each month;
      (3)   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax
collections a service fee equal to 3% of the amounts collected and timely
remitted to the Village Treasurer;
      (4)   The public utility shall not be responsible to the village for any
tax not actually collected from a retail purchaser; and
      (5)   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon.
(Prior Code, § 122.93) (Ord. 06-0438, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 44.199 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records, including original
source documents and books of entry, denoting the activities or transactions
that gave rise, or may have given rise to any tax liability or exemption under
this subchapter. All such books and records shall, at all times during business
hours, be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
(Prior Code, § 122.94) (Ord. 06-0438, passed 8-16-2006)
§ 44.200 APPLICATION OF TAX TO LARGE USERS.
   (A)   Credit. Effective with respect to gas for which the delivery to the
retail purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after June 1, 2010, a
retail purchaser that uses or consumes more than 547,000 therms of gas in the
village during a month, shall, upon submitting evidence of such use and
consumption to the village based upon the retail purchaser’s monthly gas bill
and payment of the tax with respect to such use and consumption, be entitled to
a credit of 3.4 cents ($0.034) per therm, in the form of a refund from the
village, for each therm of gas used or consumed in the village during a month,
beginning with the first therm used or consumed above 547,000 therms in such
month. The village shall administer the credit. If the village enters into a
contract for collection of the tax imposed by this section with a public
utility providing gas service in the village, the public utility shall have no
responsibility to administer the credit or to provide gas usage information to
the village related to the credit.
   (B)   Direct payment. Effective with respect to gas used or consumed from
and after June 1, 2010, in lieu of the credit described in division (A) above,
a retail purchaser that demonstrates to the village that it uses or consumes
over 547,000 therms of gas in the village in a month based upon the retail
purchaser’s monthly gas bill may enter into an agreement with the village to
pay the tax directly to the Village Treasurer on a monthly basis at a rate of
$0.035 per therm for the first 547,000 therms of gas used or consumed in the
village in a month and $0.001 per therm for each additional therm of gas used
or consumed in the village in such month and such terms and conditions
(including, without limitation, payment of estimated taxes) as are negotiated
between the village and the retail purchaser. The Village President, or such
person as is designated by the Village President, is authorized to enter into
such an agreement with a retail purchaser. At least 45 days prior to the
effective date of any such agreement, the village shall provide notice to the
public utility that the retail purchaser is exempt from collection of the tax
by the public utility under the contract between the village and the public
utility for collection of the tax, if such a contract is then in effect and the
public utility shall not be required to provide gas usage information to the
village related to the retail purchaser.
   (C)   Credit provisions as of May 1, 2010. Effective with respect to gas
used or consumed from and after May 1, 2010, a retail purchaser that uses or
consumes more than 547,000 therms of gas in the village during a month shall,
upon submitting evidence of such use and consumption to the village based upon
the retail purchaser’s monthly gas bill and payment of the tax with respect to
such use and consumption, be entitled to a credit of $0.034 per therm, in the
form of a refund from the village, for each therm of gas used or consumed in
the village in such month, beginning with the first therm used or consumed
above 547,000 therms in such month. The village shall administer the credit. If
the village enters into or has entered into a contract for the collection of
the tax imposed by this subchapter with a public utility providing gas service
in the village, the public utility shall have no responsibility to administer
the credit or to provide gas usage information to the village related to the
credit.
   (D)   Direct payment provisions as of May 1, 2010. Effective with respect to
gas used or consumed from and after May 1, 2010, in lieu of the credit
described in division (C) above, a retail purchaser that demonstrates to the
village that it uses or consumes more than 547,000 therms of gas in the village
during a month based on such purchaser’s monthly gas bill may enter into an
agreement with the village to pay the tax directly to the Village Treasurer on
a monthly basis at a rate of $0.035 per therm for the first 547,000 therms used
or consumed in the village in a given month and $0.01 per therm for each
additional therm of gas used or consumed in the village in such month, and
provided further that any retail purchaser that has entered into an agreement
with the village prior to May 1, 2010 under the provisions of division (B)
above which agreement remains in effect as of May 1, 2010 shall be entitled to
amend such agreement to reflect the substance of this division (D). Such
agreements or amendments may contain such terms as are negotiated by the
village and the retail purchaser (including, without limitation, terms for the
payment of estimated taxes). The Village President or their designee shall be
entitled to enter into such agreements or amendments. The village shall provide
notice to any relevant public utility not less than 45 days prior to the
effective date of such an agreement that the retail purchaser is exempt from
collection of the tax imposed by this subchapter by the public utility under
the provisions of any contract for the collection of such tax between the
village and such public utility, and the public utility shall not be required
to provide gas usage information to the village related to such retail
purchaser.
(Prior Code, § 122.95) (Ord. 06-0438, passed 8-16-2006; Ord. 10-0842, passed 4-
7-2010; Ord. 10-0862, passed 5-19-2010)
**** GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX AND
MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX ****
§ 44.215 MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
subchapter is in effect. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of § 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS
5/8-11-24).
(Ord. 25-1992, passed 7-9-2025; Ord. 25-2029, passed 12-17-2025)
§ 44.216 MUNICIPAL GROCERY SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to making those sales
of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of
this tax shall be the same rate identified in §
44.215. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of § 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
(Ord. 25-1992, passed 7-9-2025; Ord. 25-2029, passed 12-17-2025)
§ 44.217 STATE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO ADMINISTER BOTH TAXES.
   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the State Department of
Revenue. The State Department of Revenue shall have full power to administer
and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 25-1992, passed 7-9-2025; Ord. 25-2029, passed 12-17-2025)
§ 44.218 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The taxes imposed by this subchapter shall take effect on the later of:
   (A)   January 1, 2026;
   (B)   The first day of July next following the adoption and filing of this
subchapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding
April 1; or
   (C)   The first day of January next following the adoption and filing of
this subchapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the
preceding October 1.
(Ord. 25-1992, passed 7-9-2025; Ord. 25-2029, passed 12-17-2025)
§ 44.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
this title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $750 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person found to have violated any of the provisions of §§
44.155 through
44.158 shall, upon conviction thereof (or upon entry of a guilty plea or other
plea the substance of which is to admit or fail to contest the charged
violations of this subchapter), be fined not less than $250 nor more than $750
for a first violation, and not less than $500 nor more than $750 for a second
or subsequent violation.
(Prior Code, § 122.68)
   (C)   In addition to any other provision of §§
44.170 through
44.181, any person found in violation of any of those sections, in a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with any provisions of §§
44.170 through
44.181, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $750. The imposition of
any fine shall not relieve any person from the liability to pay the tax and any
penalty or interest imposed therein.
(Prior Code, § 122.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996; Ord. 04-0170, passed 4-
20-2005; Ord. 09-0783, passed 9-16-2009)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATERWORKS SYSTEM
      
51.   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
      
52.   SANITARY SEWER USE
      
53.   PUBLIC WATERWORKS CROSS-CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PROTECTION
      
54.   WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
      
55.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
56.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
57.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
58.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: WATERWORKS SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply
   
50.002   Authorization
   
50.003   Definitions
Combined Waterworks and Sewerage System
   
50.015   Waterworks and sewerage systems combined
   
50.016   System property
   
50.017   Assets, obligations and liabilities to be combined
   
50.018   Monthly billing
Regulation and Management of Waterworks
   
50.030   Administration
   
50.031   Quantity and quality of water supply; liability
   
50.032   Ownership and maintenance of system
   
50.033   Damaging the water system
   
50.034   Metering water
   
50.035   Tapping water mains
   
50.036   Persons authorized to do plumbing
   
50.037   Street excavations
   
50.038   Service connections
   
50.039   Service pipe
   
50.040   Installation of water meters
   
50.041   Water supplied for air conditioning or refrigeration
   
50.042   Applicability of village regulations
   
50.043   Plumbing applications and permits
   
50.044   Water service outside the village limits
   
50.045   Special water installations
   
50.046   Private water sources; reuse of water
   
50.047   Deposits by tenants
   
50.048   Deposit and fee for use of fire hydrant
   
50.049   Plumbers’ fees
   
50.050   Reading water meters
   
50.051   Meter testing; changes
   
50.052   Water rates
   
50.053   Water bills; delinquency; liens
Water Emergency; Use of Sprinkling Devices Prohibited
   
50.065   Definitions
   
50.066   Limitations on use of sprinkling devices
   
50.067   Duty to inform Village President
   
50.068   Proclamation of water emergency
   
50.069   Notice of proclamation
   
50.070   Contents of notice
   
50.071   Ratification of proclamation
Irrigation and Lawn Sprinkler Systems
   
50.085   Lawn sprinkler systems; definition; application and permit
   
50.086   Registration required
   
50.087   Installation requirements for lawn sprinkler systems
   
50.088   Sprinklers in village right-of-way (parkway)
   
50.089   Water restrictions
   
50.090   Booster pump use
 
   
50.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 50.001 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Except as to uses or methods that were in existence prior to the
effective date of this section, the use or attempt to use as a potable water
supply groundwater from any location within the corporate limits of the village
which location is within the area described and depicted in Exhibit B, attached
to Ord. 06-392, passed April 5, 2006, hereto by the installation or drilling of
wells or any other method is prohibited, and the foregoing prohibition shall
expressly include and apply to the village.
   (B)   The use or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater from
any location within the corporate limits of the village which location is
within the area described and depicted in Exhibit A, attached to Ord. 10-0867,
passed July 7, 2010, hereto by the installation or drilling of wells or any
other method is prohibited, and the foregoing prohibition shall expressly
include and apply to the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.60) (Ord. 06-392, passed 4-5-2006; Ord. 10-0867, passed 7-7-
2010)
§ 50.002 AUTHORIZATION.
   To facilitate the enforcement and further the intention of the prohibition
set forth in §
50.001, the Village President is authorized and directed to execute a tiered
approach to corrective action agreement in substantially the form attached to
Ord. 06-392, passed April 5, 2006 as Exhibit C.
(Prior Code, § 50.61) (Ord. 06-392, passed 4-5-2006)
§ 50.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision or any other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes
or preparing foods.
(Prior Code, § 50.62) (Ord. 06-392, passed 4-5-2006)
**** COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM ****
§ 50.015 WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS COMBINED.
   The existing waterworks system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made, and the
existing sanitary sewerage system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made, of the village,
are declared to be a combined system. The combined waterworks and sewerage
system shall be maintained and operated as a single utility, and a charge or
rate shall be established for the use of the combined system which shall be
reasonable and commensurate with the service performed by the combined system
and shall be sufficient to maintain, operate and provide an adequate
depreciation fund and pay the principal and interest on any revenue bonds which
may be issued, which, by their terms, are made payable from the revenues of the
combined system.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 339, passed 4-5-1972)
§ 50.016 SYSTEM PROPERTY.
   All property, real, personal and mixed, comprising the now existing
waterworks system and sanitary sewerage system is determined and declared to
constitute the properties of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 339, passed 4-5-1972)
§ 50.017 ASSETS, OBLIGATIONS AND LIABILITIES TO BE COMBINED.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, the existing
waterworks system and sanitary sewerage system shall be owned and operated by
this village as a combined utility known as the combined waterworks and
sewerage system. All improvements and extensions to the waterworks or sewerage
system, either or both, shall be considered as improvements and extensions to
the combined utility and all the properties, assets, obligations and
liabilities of all kinds of the waterworks system and of the sanitary sewerage
system, existing, outstanding and accruing or to accrue, shall be held, used,
confessed and acknowledged as the properties, assets, obligations and
liabilities of the combined utility.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 339, passed 4-5-1972)
§ 50.018 MONTHLY BILLING.
   All water rates, sewer service charges and refuse collection charges are to
be billed on a monthly basis. Bills shall be issued by the fifth working day of
each month.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 899, passed 11-7-1984; Ord. 2156-92, passed 1-29-
1992)
**** REGULATION AND MANAGEMENT OF WATERWORKS ****
§ 50.030 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of the Village Water Department shall be with the
President and Board of Trustees and their authorized officers and committees.
Work in connection with or affecting the water system proper, and the reading
of water meters, shall be under the subordinate supervision of the Village
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 50.10) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958)
§ 50.031 QUANTITY AND QUALITY OF WATER SUPPLY; LIABILITY.
   (A)   The quantity, quality and pressure of water delivered by the village
to the premises of consumers at any given time shall be only as are within the
ability of the village to provide at that time, subject to the limitations and
conditions of the water supply, to the operation of the distribution system of
the village, to any other physical reason and to acts of God.
   (B)   During an emergency in which it may, in the opinion of the Village
Manager, be inadvisable or impossible to supply water to users in sufficient
quantities as might be desired by all users for all purposes, the Village
Manager shall have the right to curtail and to allocate the use of water from
the system to all users for all purposes, or to curtail or prohibit entirely
the users for all purposes, or to curtail or prohibit entirely the use of water
from its system for specific purposes. Any action shall be reported promptly by
the Village Manager to the Village Board, and the normal supply of water
restored as soon as conditions permit. Further, any water user, after being
approached to voluntarily adhere to any curtailment or prohibition of water
use, who is found to be in violation of such curtailment or prohibition may, at
the approval of the Village Manager, be subject to an administrative warning
ticket, the issuance of such to be made by personnel designated by the Village
Manager.
   (C)   It is specified and shall be understood by all persons, firms or
corporations whom the village may now or hereafter serve with water, that the
water service is subject to the express conditions and provisions of this
chapter and that the users take the water subject to the risks thereof. The
village shall in no manner be liable or responsible for any degree of loss or
damage whatsoever to any product or thing whatsoever, including life and
health, which may at any time claim to have been incurred by the act of the
village serving water hereunder or by the exercise by the village of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Leakage monitoring and correction for storage, transmission and
distribution systems.
   (E)   Development and implementation of public programs to encourage
efficient water use.
(Prior Code, § 50.11) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 1035-88, passed 6-15-
1988; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.032 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   All water pipe and fittings connected with the water system of this
village which are placed under any highway, street or alley of the village are
the property of the village, though the cost may have been paid by others. The
normal maintenance of the system between the village and the stopcock in the
parkway shall be by the village. The maintenance of the system between the
stopcock and the water meter shall be by the owner of the property to which
water is supplied.
   (B)   Water meters shall be installed in the manner prescribed in §
50.040 and shall be the property of the village even though cost of purchase
and installation is paid by others. Normal maintenance of meters shall be by
the village, but if damaged as in §
50.040, repairs shall be paid by the property owners.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   In the event the village needs to gain access to the water
meter or related equipment for repair, replacement or other necessary services,
the property owner shall be duly notified of the request for access to the
property.
         (b)   If reasonable notice has been given and access is not allowed,
the following incentives shall be imposed:
            1.   First billing cycle: $8 surcharge on water bill;
            2.   Second billing cycle: $8 surcharge on water bill;
            3.   Third billing cycle: $8 surcharge on water bill; and
            4.   Fourth billing cycle, water service terminated.
      (2)   REASONABLE NOTICE shall be a minimum of one mailed written notice
allowing for at least ten working days to respond prior to the first month
surcharge and a minimum of one mailed written notice allowing for at least ten
working days to respond prior to termination. In the event of termination,
water service will be restored upon receipt of a reconnection payment of $50.
   (D)   (1)   The property owner can request a special appointment for water
meter replacement for a time outside of the regularly scheduled meter
replacement hours of 7:30 a.m. through 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, as may
be made available by the Department provided the following fees, of which the
amounts may be subject to change from time to time as approved by the Village
Manager, are paid to the Department of Finance a minimum of 48 hours prior to
the appointment:
         (a)   Residential property: $25 for each meter replaced on a Saturday
only; and
         (b)   Commercial or industrial property: $250 for up to three meters
and $50 for each additional meter thereafter installed during the same water
shut-off.
      (2)   In the event the fee has not been paid 48 hours in advance of the
appointment, the appointment will be cancelled, and the cycle of distribution
of notices and incentives as provided in division (C) above shall be
reinstituted at the same point as was scheduled prior to the special
appointment being made.
(Prior Code, § 50.12) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 267, passed 11-15-1967;
Ord. 316, passed 7-21-1971; Ord. 1028-88, passed 2-3-1988; Ord. 04-0155, passed
6-2-2004; Ord. 17-1398, passed 9-6-2017)
§ 50.033 DAMAGING THE WATER SYSTEM.
   No person shall wilfully, negligently or accidentally break, injure, mar,
deface, interfere with or disturb any apparatus, attachment or appurtenance of
the Village Water Department, or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair
the intended use of the equipment. The perpetrators of such an act or acts,
either wilfully, negligently or accidentally, shall be liable to the village
for the costs and results thereof.
(Prior Code, § 50.13) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.034 METERING WATER.
   (A)   All water taken from the water mains of the village shall be metered
through meters installed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of §
50.040.
   (B)   Metering of all new construction will require use from a public
hydrant to be metered, except for emergency use.
   (C)   Metering of existing non-metered services will be required as part of
any major remodeling.
(Prior Code, § 50.14) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 267, passed 11-15-1967;
Ord. 316, passed 7-21-1971; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.035 TAPPING WATER MAINS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall tap a water main of this village after
the water main has been accepted by the village and put in service unless
authorized by the Village Manager.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.036 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO DO PLUMBING.
   No person except a licensed and bonded plumber, as provided in the village
plumbing code, and authorized village employees, shall do plumbing work within
this village in connection with or connected to the water system.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.037 STREET EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Any opening or excavation in any street or alley of this village, for
purposes related whatsoever to the water system of the village, shall be only
by authorized village employees, and by plumbers licensed and bonded as
required by the village.
   (B)   All excavations under the paved surface of any street and within five
feet of the paved surface of any street shall be backfilled with sand and
flooded to obtain maximum settlement before the base course and surface are
placed.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.038 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   Each distinct main building to which water is supplied shall be supplied
through a separate and independent water service pipe with a separate tap to
the water main, and a separate meter to each main building. Each separate
service pipe shall be equipped with a buffalo box located in the parkway near
the curb line and with a buffalo box or valve in the supply line just ahead of
meter controlled from within the building or in the meter vault. The village is
the only one permitted to turn off and on at the buffalo box. Fees for duty
call outs.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 267, passed 11-15-1967;
Ord. 316, passed 7-21-1971; Ord. 1008-87, passed 8-5-1987; Ord. 22-1762, passed
3-16-2022)
§ 50.039 SERVICE PIPE.
   (A)   The water service pipe shall run in as direct a line as possible
between water main to parkway stopcock to meter, and shall be approximately
five feet below ground level with no branches taken off between main and meter.
The service pipe shall extend above the basement floor if the meter is in the
basement, above the building floor if the meter is in building or above the
vault floor if the meter is in an outside vault. The service pipe must be of
copper, Type K, of weight and size as prescribed in the village plumbing code,
but no less than three-fourths-inch internal diameter except that where the
service pipe is more than two inches in diameter it may be ductile iron. It
shall be equipped with a shutoff both at the parkway and at the meter.
   (B)   All buildings connected to the village water distribution shall be
serviced by service pipes meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   Residential: one-inch maximum internal diameter;
      (2)   Commercial: one-inch minimum internal diameter; and
      (3)   Industrial: three-inch minimum internal diameter.
(Prior Code, § 50.19) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 267, passed 11-15-1967;
Ord. 316, passed 7-21-1971; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.040 INSTALLATION OF WATER METERS.
   (A)   The village shall furnish all water meters for service connections,
but the purchase price and installation charge shall be paid by the plumber, as
provided in the plumbing code, and shall be of such type, size and construction
as the village may specify. All meters connected to the village water
distribution system, whether installed by the village or by the plumber, shall
be and remain the property of the village, except additional auxiliary meters
installed at the request and expense of an owner or consumer for the purpose of
subdividing total water used which shall remain the property of the owner or
consumer. The cost and duty to maintain and read the additional or auxiliary
meter shall be borne by the owner or consumer.
   (B)   All water meters shall be installed as close as possible to the point
of the service pipes.
   (C)   No person other than employees of the Department of Public Works or an
authorized plumber, authorized by the Department, shall be permitted to
install, remove, change the location of or in any way attempt to service,
maintain or repair the water meter.
   (D)   The property homeowner is responsible to schedule and complete the
meter program.
   (E)   When practicable and feasible, the Department recommends sub-metering
in new multi-family buildings, as determined by the Building Inspector prior to
issuance of the plumbing permit, in such instances, the village shall own the
master meter to each building and the property owner shall own and maintain
meters used for subdividing total water use.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 267, passed 11-15-1967;
Ord. 296, passed 5-6-1970; Ord. 316, passed 7-21-1971; Ord. 2096-91, passed 4-
3-1991; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.041 WATER SUPPLIED FOR AIR CONDITIONING OR REFRIGERATION.
   Water will be supplied to air conditioning or refrigeration systems subject
to the following provisions.
   (A)   The terms AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM and REFRIGERATION SYSTEM, for the
purposes hereof, shall mean those systems using water from the village mains
for the dissipation of the heat of compression and for condensation of
refrigerant, as differentiated from those systems using air as a cooling medium
for those purposes.
   (B)   A WATER CONSERVING DEVICE shall mean a water cooling tower, spray
pond, evaporative condenser or other equipment, by which water is cooled after
use through contact with the air and by evaporation and is recirculated and re-
used, thereby limiting the use of fresh water from the mains to make up water
lost by evaporation and windage.
   (C)   All water-cooled air conditioning or refrigeration systems, either in
single or multiple units, of whatever horsepower size, using the village water
supply, shall be equipped with and have in operation a water conserving device.
The village water to be supplied to each system shall not exceed 0.2 gallons
per minute, per compressor horsepower of the system. However, if on rare
occasions of short duration, the condensing pressure in the system becomes
sufficiently high as to endanger life or property, additional water may be used
for the duration of the danger, on receipt of permission to do so by the
Director of Public Works. During the off-peak season of demand on the village
water system, namely November 1 to May 1, and subject to the ability of the
village to furnish the water, a greater volume of water than that specified
above may be used in air conditioning or refrigeration systems.
   (D)   Using village water as a prime cooling medium for space, products or
things, or in a mechanical system as described above but passing the water to
the sewer without recirculation is prohibited.
   (E)   The adoption of ordinances requiring the installation of closed system
air conditioning in all new construction and in all remodeling.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-16-
2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042 APPLICABILITY OF VILLAGE REGULATIONS.
   All details of plumbing installation as to materials, professional skill or
proficiency, methods, supervision, inspection and other regulations pertaining
to any and all appurtenances connected to the water system of the village,
shall be in compliance with this subchapter and with any other ordinances now
or hereafter in effect relating to plumbers or plumbing within this village.
(Prior Code, § 50.22) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.043 PLUMBING APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Inasmuch as plumbing is permitted to be done by only a licensed and
bonded plumber, the application to begin proposed plumbing work shall be made
to the Building Inspector by the plumber as agent of the property owner. The
applicant shall supply such information as required by the Building Inspector,
and from which the permit fee and deposit, if any, can be computed as provided
in the provisions of the plumbing code governing the plumbing fees and
deposits.
   (B)   On payment of the computed fee and deposit, if any, the Building
Inspector will issue a permit to be presented to the Director of Public Works
as notice of the plumber’s authority to begin work. No work whatsoever shall
begin until the issuance and presentation of the authorizing permit.
   (C)   On completion of the work and before covering as to hinder inspection,
the Plumbing Inspector shall be notified. They shall inspect the installation
as to its compliance with the plumbing code, this subchapter and the detail of
the permit by which the fee and deposit, if any, were computed.
   (D)   If the work is found in compliance, an authorized licensed plumber
shall make the final tap to the village main and begin the supply of water. If
it is found not in compliance, the tap to main shall not be made or, if made
for testing, shall be disconnected until compliance is reached.
(Prior Code, § 50.23) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958)
§ 50.044 WATER SERVICE OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE LIMITS.
   (A)   When any person, firm or corporation outside the village limits
desires to receive a water supply from the water mains, they shall make
application to the Director of Public Works in substantially the following
form.
 
APPLICATION TO THE VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE, ILLINOIS
FOR
WATER SERVICE OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE LIMITS
 
   The undersigned, hereinafter called the applicant, hereby applies to the Village of Romeoville, Illinois, for
water service to the following described place or places outside the village limits, and for permission to make
connection to the water system of the village for that purpose. In support of such application the applicant
represents:
 
      (1)   The street address or location of the property to be served is            which is legally described as
          .
      (2)   Size of service pipe connection is                           .
      (3)   Estimated volume of water to be used per annum is          gallons.
      (4)   Character of property, residential, commercial, industrial (strike out inapplicable.)
      (5)   Number and character of independent building to be served:
      (6)   Other information or remarks                                  .
 
The applicant further states that the applicant has read and is familiar with the provisions of the ordinance
entitled and known as the “Romeoville Water Ordinance,” and particularly those provisions thereof relating to the
furnishing of water to users outside the village limits, and agrees that if this application is approved and the
water connection made, the applicant will abide by and be governed by the provisions of the ordinance and all
amendments which may hereafter be made thereto, and by all other laws and regulations thereto appertaining now or
hereafter in force.
 
   This application, if and when approved by the Village Board, shall, together with the applicable provisions of the
appropriate ordinances and laws, constitute the Agreement between the applicant and the village.
 
The village may, in its discretion require that this application, following its approval to be recorded in the office
of the Recorder of Deeds, Will County, Illinois.
                                              
                        Applicant
 
Approval recommended                  20      
 
Approved by Village Board at meeting held                                20      
                         Village Clerk
 
 
   (B)   The application shall be reviewed by the Director of Public Works, who
shall make recommendations thereon to the Village Board. No connection for
water service outside the village shall be made unless and until the
applications are approved by the Village Board.
   (C)   Making water connections and furnishing water to every user outside
the village shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   The water connection and furnishing of water shall conform in its
entirety with the provisions of this chapter and the plumbing code of the
village as either or both may now exist or hereafter be amended.
      (2)   The furnishing of water by the village, and the use by the consumer
shall at all times be subject to all rules and regulations affecting water
users within the village, unless otherwise specified, and shall be subject to
any special regulations governing outside the village water users.
      (3)   In case any territory is annexed to the village in which any water
pipes are laid in accordance with these provisions, all pipes which are placed
in or under any highway, street or alley shall, on annexation, become the
property of the village.
      (4)   In the event of the annexation to the village of territory which
shall include the premises of the owners, the owners agree that they will not
hinder by legal or other means any local improvements for which they may in the
future be assessed or which may be levied against the premises, and further
agree that they will not sign any petition opposing the annexation to the
village of the territory in which the premises are located.
      (5)   The location of the water meter shall be at the discretion of the
village.
      (6)   It shall be the responsibility of the owners of the property
outside the village to which water is furnished to keep in good repair all
water pipe and fittings between the village main and the meter, and to promptly
report leaks or damage to the village.
      (7)   The connection fee for buildings outside the corporate limits shall
be 200% of the corresponding fee for buildings within the corporate limits of
the village, as set forth in §
50.038. The connection fee and all other costs of extending village water
distribution lines to the premises of the applicant shall be paid by the
applicant before the connection is made.
      (8)   No additional connection for the furnishing of a water supply to
any other building or place than that specified in the application shall be
made or permitted unless and until a new application is made and approved in
the manner set out above and the connection fee paid.
(Prior Code, § 50.24) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 267, passed 11-15-1967;
Ord. 316, passed 7-21-1971)
§ 50.045 SPECIAL WATER INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A special water installation within the village to be served by water
from the village mains is defined as that installation connecting to and
extending from a water main to a location within the village where the
extension would not ordinarily be made for reason of the village mains are not
laid in the street or alley bounding the premises and the connections are being
made at the special request of the property owner and at their entire expense.
   (B)   Application to the village for and the provisions governing special
water installations shall be as for water users outside the village limits as
in §
50.044 in so far as the provisions apply and to such other provisions as the
village may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 50.25) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958)
§ 50.046 PRIVATE WATER SOURCES; REUSE OF WATER.
   (A)   Water used in or about any private premises or public place, including
use for fire protection, from a source, such as wells, cisterns, rivers or any
other source except the village water supply system, shall be kept entirely
separate from and with no direct or indirect connections to the village water
supply system.
   (B)   No water from the village supply mains which has been used once for
any purpose shall be piped or conveyed in any manner into the village water
supply system so as to become mixed with or form a part thereof, nor shall any
used water from the village mains, or water from any private source, be used in
processing of foods or other things for human or animal consumption.
(Prior Code, § 50.26) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.047 DEPOSITS BY TENANTS.
   (A)   Deposits shall be required of all residential customers to whom
utility service is provided. The deposit for residential utility service shall
be $100. This deposit will be required at the time service is requested or that
the account has service terminated due to nonpayment of bill.
   (B)   Deposits shall be required of all businesses applying for utility
service. Deposits shall be based upon one month’s average usage for the type of
business to be performed. The deposit shall not be less than $100.
   (C)   At the discretion of the Finance Director, deposits may be required
for those customers whose account has been previously terminated for
nonpayment. This deposit will be computed based on the customer’s average
monthly billing and will not be more than three times the average monthly
billing.
   (D)   At the discretion of the Finance Director, the utility deposit for
property owners may be waived upon request if there has been no disconnection
of service for nonpayment for a period of two years.
   (E)   At the discretion of the Finance Director, a utility deposit on file
may be applied to the account upon request of the property owner if there has
been no disconnection of service for nonpayment for a period of one year.
   (F)   In addition to such other information as may be required by applicable
village ordinances in connection with the establishment of water and sanitary
sewer utility service to a commercial or industrial user thereof, all such
commercial or industrial water and sanitary sewer customers of the village
shall, contemporaneously with applying to the Finance Department to establish
such service, present the Finance Department with proof of compliance with the
provisions of §
52.18(L) requiring the completion of and submission to the Village Department
of Public Works of a sanitary sewer discharge questionnaire as a condition to
the establishment of an account for sanitary sewer utility service or a
connection to the village sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 50.27) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 529, passed 4-20-1977;
Ord. 605, passed 2-15-1978; Ord. 723, passed 4-16-1980; Ord. 953-86, passed 6-
18-1986; Ord. 2137-91, passed 10-16-1991; Ord. 2158-92, passed 2-19-1992; Ord.
2199-92, passed 12-16-1992; Ord. 2770-00, passed 6-8-2000; Ord. 92-01, passed
9-5-2001)
§ 50.048 DEPOSIT AND FEE FOR USE OF FIRE HYDRANT.
   (A)   A special water use permit may be requested by contractors, or others,
for the purpose of obtaining a supply of water for proper, authorized use. The
permit shall be valid for a period of not more than 30 days. The applicant must
complete the special water use permit application, and the Public Works shall
approve or deny such application within two working days. In the event that an
applicant requires an extension of the permit expiration date, such request
must be made, in writing, not less than five working days prior to the permit
expiration date, and shall be authorized in 30-day increments, and a new
hydrant meter deposit check shall be received prior to the approval of an
extension.
      (1)   Fee for water usage: $100.
      (2)   Deposit for hydrant meter: $2,000.
      (3)   Fee for extended water use for each 30-day extension: $50.
   (B)   If the water hydrant is found to be damaged by the Public Works
Department following completion of use, the applicant shall pay all costs of
necessary repairs, or replacement of the hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 50.28) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 2137-91, passed 10-16-
1991; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.049 PLUMBERS’ FEES.
   The fees and deposits required of plumbers proposing to do plumbing work in
connection with the water system of the village shall be as provided by
ordinance now or hereafter in effect.
(Prior Code, § 50.29) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958)
§ 50.050 READING WATER METERS.
   (A)   The supply of water through each separate service pipe must be
recorded by one meter, for which only one account will be rendered by the
Finance Director.
   (B)   Meters shall be read on a minimum bimonthly basis provided that any
meter may be read monthly instead of bimonthly on direction from the Finance
Director.
   (C)   Any meter that has not been read by village utility service workers
for a period of six months will be subject to termination of service until such
reading occurs. There will be a charge of $50 for reconnection of service.
(Prior Code, § 50.30) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 2137-91, passed 10-16-
1991; Ord. 2495-97, passed 9-17-1997)
§ 50.051 METER TESTING; CHANGES.
   (A)   In case of breakage, stoppage or any other irregularity in the meter,
the owner or consumer is to notify the Village Manager immediately and all
necessary repairs will be made by the village, except as provided in §
50.040.
   (B)   On the written request of the owner or consumer, the proper official
will test the meter serving the premises. A deposit of $5 will be required
before the meter is disconnected, which will be returned if the meter is found
to be registering incorrectly. A meter is incorrect if it is registering
greater than 2% of accurate on a flow equal to one-eighth of the diameter of
the service, such condition being to the disadvantage of the consumer.
Otherwise, the deposit will be retained by the village to cover the costs of
the test. The owner or consumer may be present at the time of the test, to whom
the results will be reported in any case. If the testing of a meter shows that
its was registering incorrectly, the charge to the consumer for water used
shall be on the basis of the consumption for the corresponding period of the
previous year. If the meter had not been in service for a year, or in the
corresponding period, or if for any other reason the charge for the
corresponding period cannot be justly applied, the charge shall be equitably
adjusted by the Village Manager. The minimum metered rate as hereinafter
specified will be charged as long as the meter remains out of service.
   (C)   On the written request of the owner or their authorized agent to the
Village Manager asking that the water be shut off and the meter removed, the
village will proceed to comply with the request, and the minimum rate as
hereinafter specified will cease on the date when the meter is removed. No
charge will be made when a meter is again installed. After the water supply has
been shut off for any reason except for repairs, the service will not be
reestablished unless a written order is given to the Village Manager by the
owner or authorized agent, nor until all arrears are paid.
(Prior Code, § 50.31) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958)
§ 50.052 WATER RATES.
   All village water to consumers shall be metered and all water shall be
charged at the regular classified rates in effect at the time the water is
consumed, with no allowance being made for excessive consumption due to leaks
or waste. The charge for water supplied through meters is fixed at the
following rates.
   (A)   (1)   For each increment of 1,000 gallons, the water rate shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Effective May 1, 2022: $7.42;
         (b)   Effective May 1, 2023: $7.79; and
         (c)   Effective May 1, 2024: $8.17.
      (2)   Each September 1 thereafter the rate shall be increased by 5% or
the annual percentage rate of the Cost of Living Index as of January 1 of such
year, whichever is greater. Effective as of May 1, 2001, and upon each May 1
thereafter, the rate shall be increased by 4% or the annual percentage rate of
the Cost of Living Index as of January 1 of such year, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing or any contrary provision of
this section, effective as of May 1, 2006, and for each May 1 thereafter, there
shall be no annual 3% increase in the aforementioned water rate of the village.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing or any contrary provision of
this section, effective as of May 1, 2010, and for each May 1 thereafter, there
shall be an annual increase in the aforementioned water rate of the village of
5%.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions or any contrary
provisions of this division (A), effective as of November 1, 2017, the water
rates charged to nonresidential water customers located within the corporate
limits of the village shall be increased by 3%; provided, however, that
nonresidential water customers that are either:
      (a)   Governmental entities; or
      (b)   Places of worship shall be exempt from the rate increase otherwise
required.
   (B)   Where the water is supplied through one meter to one building which
contains more than three-family dwelling units, store units or office units, or
more than three units in any combination thereof, there shall be an additional
charge of $2 per month for each unit in excess of three, which will be in
addition to the foregoing meter rates for water used, or to those rates in
effect at the time the water is used.
   (C)   The minimum bills for water supplied through a meter shall be equal to
the water rate for 1,000 gallons of water.
   (D)   (1)   Each and every user of water located wholly or partly outside of
the village limits shall be charged 200% of the meter rates as set forth in
division (A) above or as it may hereafter be amended. In each case where more
than one house or other place of residence, place of business or industry is
served through one and the same meter, a further and additional charge of $4
shall be made for each month on each additional house, residence, business or
industry. On or before July 1 of each year, the person or persons in whose
names the water account stands shall furnish to the Department of Public Works
a list in writing showing the name, address, description of property and the
character of the use of the property, that is, whether residential, commercial
or industrial, as to each and every additional unit of water being served
through the meter in question. The list shall be sworn to if required by the
Village Manager.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions or any contrary
provisions of this division (D), effective as of November 1, 2017, the water
rates charged to nonresidential water customers located outside of the
corporate limits of the village shall be increased by 5%; provided, however,
that nonresidential water customers that are either:
         (a)   Governmental entities; or
         (b)   Places of worship shall be exempt from the rate increase
otherwise required, and provided further, that the increase otherwise required
shall be subject to the terms and provisions of any agreement in effect as of
November 1, 2017 under which the village provides water service to
nonresidential customers located outside of the corporate limits of the
village.
   (E)   There shall be a senior citizens homeowners’ discount of 10% on the
water rate as established above. This discount will apply to the first 8,000
gallons of usage each billing cycle. To obtain the senior citizens homeowners’
discount, the senior citizen must present to the Finance Director or designated
agent at least once each year proof of the following:
      (1)   Their age being 62 years or older;
      (2)   Ownership of a single-family residence; and
      (3)   Residence in the above single-family residence.
   (F)   Sewer customers of the village are allowed a credit once per calendar
year for a swimming pool that is fully emptied and refilled. The sewer portion
of your bill will be adjusted for the amount of water consumed to fill the
pool. Sewer customers must complete the credit request from and the Finance
Department will calculate an adjustment based on the water usage during the
month the pool was filled minus the average water use during the previous six
months. The adjustment will not exceed the maximum gallons to fill the pool.
The customer’s account must be paid in full to receive the adjustment. A visit
to the property may be necessary to verify the pool had been filled. The
village will verify all proper pool permits and inspections have been completed
prior to issuing any credit. The credit request form must be completed within
60 days of filling a pool to receive any adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 50.32) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. 316, passed 7-21-1971;
Ord. 740, passed 7-2-1980; Ord. 918, passed 6-5-1985; Ord. 1038-88, passed 7-6-
1988; Ord. 2093-91, passed 4-3-1991; Ord. 2124-91, passed 8-21-1991; Ord. 2171-
91, passed 9-11-1991; Ord. 2155-92, passed 1-22-1992; Ord. 2484-97, passed 6-4-
1997; Ord. 2503-97, passed 9-17-1997; Ord. 2692-99, passed 9-15-1999; Ord.
2742-00, passed 3-15-2000; Ord. 72-01, passed 6-6-2001; Ord. 0022-03, passed 3-
19-2003; Ord. 06-0402, passed 4-19-2006; Ord. 10-0844, passed 4-7-2010; Ord.
17-1405, passed 9-20-2017; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-16-2022; Ord. 23-1859, passed
8-16-2023; Ord. 24-1925, passed 7-17-2024)
§ 50.053 WATER BILLS; DELINQUENCY; LIENS.
   (A)   Payment of water bills.
      (1)   Water bills are due when rendered.
      (2)   The owner of the premises and the occupant thereof and the user of
either water or sewerage service or both water and sewer service shall be
jointly and severally liable to pay for the service on said premises; such
service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition
that the owner of the premises, the occupant and the user of the service are
jointly and severally liable thereof.
      (3)   If the water bill is not paid within 21 days from the date of
issuance of the bill, a 10% penalty shall be added and thereafter the bill
shall not be considered paid unless and until the total bill plus all penalties
are paid in full.
   (B)   Delinquency of water bills. When the water bill for any premises
remains unpaid for 30 days, the water accounts shall be deemed delinquent.
   (C)   Notice of delinquency.
      (1)   Upon delinquency, the village shall give notice to the person, firm
or corporation in whose name the account stands on the records of the village.
      (2)   The notice may, but is not required to, be given by the village to
the owner of the premises in connection with which the water was used, if the
owner is other than the user and if their name and address is known to the
village.
   (D)   Form of notice of delinquency. The form of notice of delinquency shall
be in such form as the Finance Director may from time to time prescribe, and
shall inform the person notified of the amount of the delinquency and the
action which may be taken by the village in case the delinquency continues to
exist at the end of five days from the date of the notice and the right to have
a hearing before the Village Manager.
   (E)   Water to be shut off. In each case where delinquent water bills (at
least 60 days past due) are not paid within five days from the date of the
notice, the water furnished to the premises shall be shut off by the Public
Works Department, and shall not thereafter be restored until such time as the
full amount past due is fully paid including a service charge of $50 for
restoring the service, and all other provisions of the water ordinance have
been complied with. Duty call out fee after hours. Public Works will not
restore water until the meter has been replaced if the residence is in the
meter program list.
   (F)   Notice of lien.
      (1)   In each case where a delinquent water account is not paid within
five days from the date of the notice of delinquency, and when no negotiation
is completed allowing the account to be paid in installments, the Village Clerk
shall cause a notice of lien to be prepared and filed in the Office of the
County Recorder of Deeds.
      (2)   The notice of lien shall be in substantially the following form:
 
NOTICE OF LIEN FOR WATER FURNISHED
 
      To                                                                            
                  (Owner’s Name)
                                                                                
                  (Owner’s Address)
 
And to all Persons Now or Hereafter interested in the Following Property:
 
You and each of you are hereby notified that the Village of Romeoville, a municipal corporation, organized and existing under and by virtue of the Laws of the
State of Illinois, claims a lien upon the real estate commonly known as                         
Romeoville, Illinois, and otherwise described as follows, to wit:
 
   (Insert Legal Description)
 
In the County of Will and State of Illinois, for delinquent water rates for water supplied to said real estate by the claimant, Village of Romeoville, up to and
including
, 20    . You and each of you are further notified that the amount of money now claimed to be due the Village of Romeoville for delinquent water rates for water
furnished to said real estate as aforesaid is                        Dollars
($ ) which amount became delinquent of                                    , 20    .
 
   VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE
 
   A Municipal Corporation
 
   By                                      
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               ) SS.
COUNTY OF WILL         )
 
                             , being first duly sworn upon oath deposes and says that the undersigned is a duly authorized deputy collector employed in the
office of the Village Clerk of the Village of Romeoville, the books and records of the accounts for water furnished by the Village of Romeoville and that the
undersigned has read the foregoing notice of lien for water furnished and knows the contents thereof, and that all the statements contained therein are true.
 
                                                                      
Subscribed and sworn to before me this        day of           20     .                                 
                         Notary Public
 
   (G)   Record; release. The Village Clerk shall keep a record of all notices
of lien as may be filed pursuant to (F) above. Upon the full payment of any
delinquent water account which any notice of lien has been filed, the Clerk
shall execute a release evidencing the satisfaction and discharge of the lien
and deliver the release to the person paying the delinquent account.
(Prior Code, § 50.33) (Ord. 192, passed 11-5-1958; Ord. passed - -1971; Ord.
771, passed 1-21-1981; Ord. 997-87, passed 5-20-1987; Ord. 2137-91, passed 10-
16-1991; Ord. 2159-92, passed 2-19-1992; Ord. 2231-93, passed 7-21-1993; Ord.
04-0154, passed 6-2-2004)
**** WATER EMERGENCY; USE OF SPRINKLING DEVICES PROHIBITED ****
§ 50.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SPRINKLING and WATERING. The sprinkling or watering of lawns shall be
restricted to an odd-even basis, based on the street address of a given
property and the particular day of the month. This restriction shall be in
effect from May 10 through September 10. Should a water emergency be declared,
as provided for herein, this definition shall be null and void for the duration
of the declared emergency.
   SPRINKLING DEVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, such devices as hoses,
portable sprinklers and permanently installed sprinkler systems which are used
for such purposes as watering lawns or washing cars, windows or sidewalks.
SPRINKLING DEVICES shall not include those sprinkling devices used in
commercial car wash businesses nor sprinkling devices used for purposes of fire
protection.
   WATER EMERGENCY. A condition which exists when the water pumps of the
village water system, have been operating continuously at full capacity for a
period of 16 hours or the water level in the water storage tanks of the village
has fallen below 1,000,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 50.40) (Ord. 414, passed 7-17-1974; Ord. 2033-89, passed 10-18-
1989)
§ 50.066 LIMITATIONS ON USE OF SPRINKLING DEVICES.
   (A)   The sprinkling or watering of lawns shall be restricted to an odd-even
basis, based on the street address of a given property and the particular day
of the month, and shall be allowed only during the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 9:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   This restriction shall be in effect upon passage of this section until
modified by action of the corporate authorities.
   (C)   Should a water emergency be declared, as provided for herein, this
section shall become null and void for the duration of the declared emergency.
(Prior Code, § 50.41) (Ord. 414, passed 7-17-1974; Ord. 2114-91, passed 7-24-
1991) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.067 DUTY TO INFORM VILLAGE PRESIDENT.
   The Village Manager shall inform the President of the Village Board of
Trustees when a water emergency exists in the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.42) (Ord. 414, passed 7-17-1974)
§ 50.068 PROCLAMATION OF WATER EMERGENCY.
   The President of the Village Board of Trustees, on being informed of the
existence of a water emergency within the village, may proclaim that a water
emergency exists within the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.43) (Ord. 414, passed 7-17-1974)
§ 50.069 NOTICE OF PROCLAMATION.
   The President of the Village Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the
proclamation proclaiming that a water emergency exists within the village by
causing a copy of the proclamation declaring the water emergency to be posted
at the Village Hall and such other locations as may be necessary or desirable
and by other means as the President shall deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 50.44) (Ord. 414, passed 7-17-1974)
§ 50.070 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice of proclamation shall contain a declaration that a water
emergency exists within the village and the time period within which the
proclamation shall be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 50.45) (Ord. 414, passed 7-17-1974)
§ 50.071 RATIFICATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   No proclamation of a water emergency by the Village President shall be in
effect for a period extending beyond the next regular meeting of the Board of
Trustees. The Board shall ratify the proclamation of the President of the Board
of Trustees and provide for the period during which the restrictions imposed by
§
50.066 shall be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 50.46) (Ord. 414, passed 7-17-1974)
**** IRRIGATION AND LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEMS ****
§ 50.085 LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; DEFINITION; APPLICATION AND PERMIT.
   (A)   As used in this subchapter, LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEM shall mean and
include any irrigation system intended for irrigating lawns, shrubbery, trees,
plants, flowers or other vegetation to be installed underground and connected
in any way to the waterworks system of the village, including, but not limited
to, the water supply piping, valves, sprinkler heads or other irrigation or
water dispensing outlets.
   (B)   No lawn sprinkler system that will receive or use water from the
village waterworks system shall be installed unless the owner of the property
where such system is to be located and operated shall first submit to the
village an application therefor in such form as the village may require from
time to time, provide plans for such system to the village together with such
application; pay to the village the required application and/or plan review
fees therefor; install a lead-free RPZ backflow prevention device from the
following manufacturers: Watt’s, Febco, Wilkins; and obtain a permit for the
installation of the lawn sprinkler system, which permit shall only be issued by
the village in the event that the applicant has complied with all of the
requirements of this subchapter and the otherwise applicable requirements of
the code.
   (C)   In addition to such other requirements as may be set forth in this
subchapter, the application shall provide the name of the property owner at
which the lawn sprinkler system is to be located; the address of the
installation location; the make, model and quantity of sprinklers proposed to
be installed; the static pressure of the lawn sprinkler system; the gallons per
minute capacity per largest zone of the lawn sprinkler system; the type of pipe
proposed to be used in the installation; the manufacturer, type and size of the
booster pump to be used in the installation; the name, registration number
(either state or local) and signature of the irrigation contractor or licensed
plumber responsible for the installation of the lawn sprinkler system; the name
and license number of the plumber (who shall be required to have an IEPA cross-
connection control license) responsible for the physical connection between the
lawn sprinkler system and the backflow prevention device. In support of the
application, the applicant must also provide a plat of survey with the
sprinkler head and RPZ locations indicated on the plat.
(Prior Code, § 50.50) (Ord. 06-0486, passed 12-6-2006; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-
16-2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.086 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every irrigation contractor installing or proposing to install lawn
sprinkler systems in the village (or in any location served by the waterworks
system of the village) or maintaining a place of business within the village
for the conduct of such business shall annually register with the village.
Every irrigation contractor shall, at a minimum, provide to the department
their business name and address, telephone number, name of principal and FEIN
number together with such other information as the village may require for the
efficient administration of this subchapter, and in connection therewith pay to
the village the annual registration fee as set forth in the applicable
provisions of the code. Any plumber licensed with the state must register with
the village, but no fee will be required.
(Prior Code, § 50.51) (Ord. 06-0486, passed 12-6-2006) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.087 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS FOR LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   All installations of lawn sprinkler systems within the village or in any
location where the same shall be connected to the village waterworks system
shall conform to the following requirements, in addition to any other
applicable requirements of the village code.
   (A)   Lawn sprinkler and irrigation systems connected to the village water
system shall comply with the Illinois Plumbing Code. A list of materials to be
used underground shall be furnished with the permit application.
   (B)   Interior piping for lawn irrigation systems shall be copper, Type L -
(blue stripe on pipe), of weight and size as prescribed in the village plumbing
code, but no less than one inch internal to the exterior of building. The RPZ
can be installed outside.
   (C)   No lawn sprinkler system shall be caused or allowed to operate during
rain or in such a manner so as to produce water runoff, over-spraying, low head
drainage or any other condition which results in water flowing onto property
not intended to be served by the lawn sprinkler or landscape irrigation system,
as disclosed by the application for the lawn sprinkler system permit.
   (D)   All lawn sprinkler systems shall be equipped with either a rain
sensing or soil moisture sensing device which overrides the irrigation cycle of
the lawn sprinkler systems when it rains and/or when the soil has adequate
moisture.
   (E)   All backflow devices must be certified by a licensed plumber (who
shall be required to possess a valid IEPA cross-connection control device
certification), at a minimum, on an annual basis, and shall comply with the
Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 I.A.C. § 892.50. Within 30 days of the inspection, a
copy of the annual certification shall be sent to the Public Works Department.
   (F)   Upon the installation of every lawn sprinkler system, a licensed
plumber (who shall be required to possess a valid IEPA cross-connection control
device certification) shall affix to the backflow prevention device a tag
certifying that the installation of that system has been completed in
compliance with the minimum code of plumbing standards. The registered
irrigation contractor and the licensed plumber whose identifying information is
contained on the certification tag shall both be subject to the penalty
provisions of this chapter for violations of the provisions of this subchapter
or other applicable provisions of this code.
   (G)   The RPZ shall not be located more than five feet above the finished
floor, and the same restrictions apply if optional meter is purchased for use
in connection therewith.
   (H)   No person shall attach to a lawn sprinkler system any fixture intended
to supply water for human consumption.
   (I)   No person shall attach to a lawn sprinkler system any fixture other
than the backflow prevention device, sprinkler heads, valves and other parts
integral to the operation of the system, unless such fixture is clearly marked
as being for non-potable uses only.
(Prior Code, § 50.52) (Ord. 06-0486, passed 12-6-2006; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-
16-2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.088 SPRINKLERS IN VILLAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY (PARKWAY).
   Sprinkler heads are permitted in the parkway portions of village road or
street rights-of-way in compliance with the other requirements of this
subchapter; provided, however, that only one row of heads shall be permitted
and shall be located one foot from any hard surface (i.e., curb, sidewalk,
driveway and the like). Where no sidewalks are present, the sprinkler heads
shall be no closer than five feet from the street. When sprinkler heads are
installed in these areas, the village assumes no liability for sprinkler system
if it is damaged or needs to be replaced or repaired due to the required work
in these areas; by applying for and accepting a permit for the installation of
sprinkler heads in the parkway, the applicant and property owner shall be
deemed to have impliedly consented to the foregoing limitation of liability.
All such repair and replacement shall be the responsibility of the property
owner. Furthermore, in the event that any damage is caused to public
infrastructure during the installation of the sprinkling system, it shall be
the responsibility of the contractor or homeowner to immediately report the
damage to the Department of Public Works. All necessary repairs will be
completed in accordance with village regulations and at the expense of the
contractor or homeowner. Prior to the installation of any lawn sprinkler system
within the parkway portion of any village right-of-way, the property owner,
upon installation of a sprinkler system within village right-of-way, shall, at
the discretion of the village and in such form as the village may require from
time to time, enter into an appropriate license agreement with the village and/
or record a covenant running with the land against the site of the proposed
lawn sprinkler system to memorialize the foregoing requirements and the other
conditions of this subchapter. A copy of the recorded document must be
submitted with the application as a condition of the issuance of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 50.53) (Ord. 06-0486, passed 12-6-2006) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.089 WATER RESTRICTIONS.
   All lawn sprinkler systems shall adhere to the water conservation
regulations outlined in §
50.066.
(Prior Code, § 50.54) (Ord. 06-0486, passed 12-6-2006) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.090 BOOSTER PUMP USE.
   The following additional requirements shall apply to the use of any booster
pump in connection with a lawn sprinkler system.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 pounds per square inch or
less.
   (B)   The manufacturer, type and size of the pump used for installation
shall be provided on the permit application.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the property owner to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the Public
Works Department, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Prior Code, § 50.55) (Ord. 06-0486, passed 12-6-2006) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
this title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $750 for each offense.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalties, fines or sentences that may be
imposed pursuant to law, any person convicted of a violation of §
50.001 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750 for
each offense.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 414, passed 7-17-1974; Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-
1996; Ord. 06-392, passed 4-5-2006)
CHAPTER 51: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Access to records
   
51.03   Appeals
Charges for Wastewater Services
   
51.15   Basis for wastewater service charges
   
51.16   Basic user charge
   
51.17   Debt service charge computation
   
51.18   Capital improvement charge
   
51.19   Surcharge
   
51.20   Review of charges
   
51.21   Notification to users
   
51.22   Measurement of flow
   
51.23   Basic user rate
   
51.24   Debt service charge
   
51.25   Capital improvement charge
   
51.26   Non-metered users
   
51.27   Surcharge rates
   
51.28   Computation of wastewater service charge
Billing
   
51.40   Bills
   
51.41   Delinquent bills
   
51.42   Lien-notice of delinquency
   
51.43   Foreclosure of lien
   
51.44   Revenues
   
51.45   Accounts
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public waterworks cross-connection and backflow protection, see
Chapter 53
   Wastewater pretreatment, see
Chapter 54
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The President and Board of Trustees of the village.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the treatment works for the
cost of operation, maintenance and replacement.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C expressed in milligram per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments or
places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for the
payment of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like)
outstanding.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable “NPDES permit.”
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), as
amended.
   FEDERAL GRANT. The United States government participation in the financing
of the construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II - Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1281 et
seq., and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from handling, storage and sale of food.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS. Establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance
into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Schools, churches, penal institutions and
users associated with federal, state and local governments.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly-owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a);
or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuing authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
§ 402 of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 1.57
gallons of sewage per day, containing 1,956 pounds of BOD and 2,696 pounds of
suspended solids.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary (or combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units, such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and groundwaters or polluted
industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Interchangeable with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   STATE GRANT. The state participation in the financing of the construction of
treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act and for
making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm surface and groundwater drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in §
51.19.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CLASS. The type of user, RESIDENTIAL, INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL,
COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL as defined herein.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per month levied on all users levied
on all users of wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in §§
51.15 through
51.28 and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge, the debt service
charge, the capital improvement charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
      (1)   An arrangement of devices and structures for treating wastewater,
industrial wastes and sludge.
      (2)   Sometimes used as synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois, see 35 I.A.C. §§ 301.102 et seq.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.02 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The IEPA, USEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any
books, documents, papers and records of the village which are applicable to the
village system of user charges for the purpose of making an audit, examination,
excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the
(special and general conditions to any state grant), (federal regulations and
conditions of the federal grant) and (loan agreements and rules of any state
loan).
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.03 APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and charges established for user charges
in this subchapter shall be made available to a user within ten days of receipt
of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the
computations thereof shall be remedied by the Village Administrator within ten
days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
**** CHARGES FOR WASTEWATER SERVICES ****
§ 51.15 BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service applied by the
wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user charge, a
debt service charge, a capital improvement charge and applicable surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 51.15) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.16 BASIC USER CHARGE.
   (A)   The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the operation,
maintenance plus replacement (O, M & R) costs and shall be based on a monthly
flat rate charge for wastes having the following normal domestic
concentrations:
      (1)   A five day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 300 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids content of 350 ppm.
   (B)   The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the annual wastewater volume, pounds of BOD and pounds of
SS to be treated;
      (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all work categories;
      (3)   Proportion the estimated O, M & R costs to each user class by
volume, BOD and SS;
      (4)   Proportion the estimated O, M & R costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, BOD and SS;
      (5)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal domestic strength
sewage; and
      (6)   Compute surcharge costs per pound for BOD and SS concentrations in
excess of normal domestic strengths.
(Prior Code, § 51.16) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993; Ord. 0021-03, passed 3-
19-2003)
§ 51.17 DEBT SERVICE CHARGE COMPUTATION.
   The debt service charge is computed by apportioning the annual debt service
(as a fixed charge per billing period). A part of debt service is also covered
through the variable rate.
(Prior Code, § 51.17) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.18 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE.
   The capital improvement charge is levied on users to provide for capital
improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the sewage treatment works. The
capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the annual amount to be
accrued (as a fixed charge per billing period).
(Prior Code, § 51.18) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.19 SURCHARGE.
   (A)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the normal
domestic concentration of BOD (330 ppm) and SS (350 ppm). The surcharge will be
based on water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage meters for all
wastes which exceed the 330 ppm and 350 ppm concentration of BOD and SS,
respectively.
   (B)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the President and Board of Trustees and shall be
binding as a basis for surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 51.19) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.20 REVIEW OF CHARGES.
   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed, not less
often than annually, by certified public accountants for the village in their
annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or O, M & R costs.
(Prior Code, § 51.20) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.21 NOTIFICATION TO USERS.
   The users of the wastewater treatment services shall be notified annually,
in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to the wastewater operation, maintenance and
replacement.
(Prior Code, § 51.21) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.22 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to lowest even increment of 100
gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of their water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at their expense, water meters of a type approved
by the President and Board of Trustees for the purpose of determining the
volume of water obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the President and Board of Trustees if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is cancelled,
without the consent of the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 51.22) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.23 BASIC USER RATE.
   (A)   There shall be and there is established a basic user rate for the use
and for service supplied by the wastewater collection system of the village.
This basic user rate shall be $2.16 per 1,000 gallons to each user for O, M & R
and an additional $1.08 per 1,000 gallons to each user for debt service. As of
May 1, 1993, and through May 1, 2000, the total basic user rate shall be
increased by 5% or the annual percentage rate of the Cost of Living Index as of
January 1 of such year, whichever is greater. Effective as of May 1, 2001, and
each May 1 thereafter, the total basic user rate shall be increased by 4% or
the annual percentage rate of the Cost of Living Index as of January 1 of such
year, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing or any contrary provision of this
chapter, effective as of May 1, 2006, and for each May 1 thereafter, there
shall be an annual 3% increase in the aforementioned basic user rate of the
village.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing or any contrary provision of this
section, effective as of May 1, 2010, and for each May 1 thereafter, there
shall be an annual increase in the aforementioned basic user rate of the
village of 5%.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions or any contrary
provisions of this section, effective as of November 1, 2017, there shall be an
increase in the aforementioned basic user rate of 3% for all nonresidential
wastewater customers located within the corporate limits of the village, and
there shall also be an increase in the aforementioned basic user rate of 5% for
all nonresidential wastewater customers located outside of the corporate limits
of the village; provided, however, that nonresidential wastewater customers of
the village that are either:
      (1)   Governmental entities; or
      (2)   Places of worship shall be exempt from the rate increase otherwise
required, and provided further that the village increase otherwise required
shall be subject to the terms and provisions of any agreement in effect as of
November 1, 2017 under which the village provides wastewater service to
nonresidential customers located outside of the corporate limits of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 51.23) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993; Ord. 72-01, passed 6-6-
2001; Ord. 0022-03, passed 3-19- 2003; Ord. 06-0402, passed 4-19-2006; Ord. 10-
0844, passed 4-7-2010; Ord. 17-1405, passed 9-20-2017)
§ 51.24 DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   A debt service charge of $15 per month to each user of the wastewater
collection system facility of the village is established.
(Prior Code, § 51.24) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.25 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE.
   There shall be and there is established a capital improvement charge of .00
per 1,000 gallons to each user of the wastewater facility.
(Prior Code, § 51.25) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.26 NON-METERED USERS.
   (A)   All non-metered users of the wastewater facilities shall pay a flat
rate charge equal to 150,000 gallons per month.
   (B)   In the event use of the wastewater facilities is determined by the
President and Board of Trustees to be in excess of 150,000 gallons per month,
the President and Board of Trustees may require such flat rate user to install
metering devices on the water supply or sewer main to measure the amount of
service supplied.
(Prior Code, § 51.26) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.27 SURCHARGE RATES.
   The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as follows:
   (A)   Per pound of BOD: $0.27; and
   (B)   Per pound of SS: $0.36
(Prior Code, § 51.27) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.28 COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
   CW = CR X V + CD + CS
   Where   CW = wastewater service charge ($) per month
      CR = basic user rate
      V = volume of the water used per month
      CD = debt service charge
      CS = surcharge rate
(Prior Code, § 51.28)
**** BILLING ****
§ 51.40 BILLS.
   (A)   The rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly. The owner
of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall be
jointly and severally liable to pay for the service furnished to the premises
by the village.
   (B)   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the Village Treasurer by
the fifth working day of the month succeeding the period for which the service
is billed.
   (C)   All sewer bills are due and payable 21 days after being sent out. A
penalty of 10% shall be added to all bills not paid by the twenty-second day
after they have been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 51.45) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.41 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   If the charges for such services are not paid within 61 days herein
after the rendition of the bill for such services, such services shall be
discontinued without further notice and shall not be reinstated until all
claims are settled.
(Prior Code, § 51.46)
   (B)   (1)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service
to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s form for
application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the
title, address, room number and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of their bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time they may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of their choosing and may present orally or in
writing their complaint and contentions to the village official in charge of
utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer’s complaint. The hearing shall be conducted in
pursuant to §
41.20.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $20.
(Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.42 LIEN-NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for 120 days for
monthly service after it has been rendered, the Village Treasurer shall file
with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement
shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the
unpaid bill and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount, as
well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and
the village treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises if their address be known to the Treasurer, whenever such bill
remains unpaid for the period 45 days for a monthly bill after it has been
rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the Village Treasurer to record such lien or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the foregoing
section.
(Prior Code, § 51.47) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.43 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for nonpayment
of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in equity in the name of the village. The
Village Attorney is authorized and directed to institute such proceedings in
the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over such matters
against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid an additional 45
days in the case of a monthly bill after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 51.48) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.44 REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and money derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage Fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate and
apart from their private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of
the village and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be
delivered to the Village Treasurer not more than 72 hours after receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed
by the President and Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the
sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of
such system as the same may be delivered to them and deposit the same in the
account of the fund designated as the “Sewerage Fund of the village.”
(Prior Code, § 51.49) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.45 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular intervals, they shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
sewerage system.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual
audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the
wastewater facilities, including replacement cost, to indicate that sewer user
charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these regulations.
      (2)   In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
         (a)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
         (b)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
         (c)   Debit service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
         (d)   Number of users connected to the system;
         (e)   Number of non-metered users; and
         (f)   A list of users discharging non-domestic and industrial wastes
and volume of waste discharged.
(Prior Code, § 51.50) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 51.99) (Ord. 2204-93, passed 3-3-1993)
CHAPTER 52: SANITARY SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
Sewer Use Regulations
   
52.15   Use of public sewers required
   
52.16   Private sewage disposal
   
52.17   Building sewers and connections
   
52.18   Use of public sewers
   
52.19   Protection of sewage works from damage
   
52.20   Power and authority of inspectors
   
52.21   Sewer line maintenance/replacement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   A chapter regulating:
   (A)   The use of public and private sewers and drains, private sewage
disposal, the installation and connection of building sewers, the discharge of
waters and wastes into the public sewer system and providing penalties for
violations thereof; and
   (B)   The levying of charges for wastewater services (use charges).
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 2132-91, passed 9-18-1991; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The President and Board of Trustees of the village.
   BOD, BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemist oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable “NPDES permit.”
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) as
amended.
   FEDERAL GRANT. The United States government participation in the financing
of the construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II - Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1281 et
seq., and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly treated, and wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from handling, storage and sale of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process from the development, recovery or processing
of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly-owned
treatment works that: has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work
day; has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal system
receiving the waste; has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as
defined in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C.
§ 1317(a); or is found by the permit issuing authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent criteria from that treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
§ 402 of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 1.57
gallons of sewage per day, containing 1,956 pounds of BOD and 2,696 pounds of
suspended solids.
   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary (or combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and groundwaters or polluted
industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   STATE GRANT. The state participation in the financing of the construction of
treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act and for
making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm surface and ground water drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Romeoville.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL
PLANT.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois, see 35 I.A.C. §§ 301.102 et seq.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 2132-91, passed 9-18-1991; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** SEWER USE REGULATIONS ****
§ 52.15 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose situated within the village
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the
village, is required at their expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 52.10) (Ord. 2132-91, passed 9-18-1991; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.15, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by an authorized
representative of the village. The application for such permit shall be made on
a form furnished by the village (reference Appendix #1, attached to Ord. 2132-
91, passed September 18, 1991), which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the village.
A permit and inspection fee of $100 or reimbursement of costs shall be paid to
the village at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
village. The village shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
village when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the
receipt of written notice by the village.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Illinois Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225/1, and code and with the State
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than 15,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served,
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.15, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the village.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the local health
officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 52.11) (Ord. 2132-91, passed 9-18-1991; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover; make any connections with or
opening into; use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Public Works Director and/or
Village Manager.
   (B)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
   (C)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential,
wastewater service and to commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial
waste service. In either case, the owner or their agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the village, (reference Appendix #1, attached to
Ord. 2132-91, passed September 18, 1991). The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the village. A permit and inspection fee of $50
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be paid to the
village at the time the application is filed. The industry, as a condition of
permit authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater
constituents, characteristics and type of activity.
   (D)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (E)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may, directly or indirectly, be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the village, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. All costs to be borne by the applicant.
   (H)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is
approved in accordance with division (B) above and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the village before
installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the village
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of a village
authorized and qualified representative.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 52.12) (Ord. 2132-91, passed 9-18-1991; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the village. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the village, to a
storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any of the
following described, waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gasses in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk container and the like, either
hole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (5)   Any water, waste, sewage, discharge or wastewater containing a
concentration of 1000 mg/l COD or greater. As used in this section, COD denotes
a bulk parameter that measures the oxygen consuming capacity of organic and
inorganic matter present in water or wastewater; and
      (6)   Any water, waste, sewage, discharge or wastewater containing which
exhibits a ratio of BOD (as defined in §
52.02) to COD of less than 0.3.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears
likely, in the opinion of the village, that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream or constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the
acceptability of these waters, the village will give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies.
      (2)   The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F
(0°C and 65°C);
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped, with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to review
and approval of the village;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village for such materials;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge into the receiving waters;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Any wastes or waters have a pH in excess of 9.5;
         (i)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.05 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the village in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations;
         (j)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the village in compliance with state and federal regulations;
         (k)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, filler earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting “slugs,” as defined herein.
         (l)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters;
         (m)   Any water or wastewater containing more than 250 mg/l total
surfactants, where total surfactants are measured as the sum of:
            1.   Anionic surfactants as MBAS;
            2.   Nonionic surfactants as CTAS; and
            3.   Cationic surfactants measured as the difference between
sublation residue and MBAS and CTAS values.
         (n)   Any water or wastewater containing more than 300 mg/l BOD;
         (o)   Any water or wastewater containing more than 350 mg/l in total
of suspended solids. As used in this section, SUSPENDED SOLIDS shall have the
meaning set forth therefor in §
51.01; and
         (p)   Any water or wastewater containing any substance or material or
any concentration of any substance or material, where the discharge of such
substance, material or concentration thereof into any public sewer or
wastewater treatment system is prohibited by regulations or rules promulgated
or adopted by the State Environmental Protection Agency or the United States
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and/or which are in
violation of the Standards for Pretreatment, provided in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403,
June 26, 1978 and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the
village may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered, by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the
provisions of division (B) above.
      (2)   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the village, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the village, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at their expense.
   (H)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the village, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the village. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at their expense, and shall be maintained by them so as
to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (I)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analysis of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type and frequency of
laboratory analysis to be performed by the owner shall be stipulated by the
village, but no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with the federal, state and local standards are being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analysis to the village
at such times and in such a manner as prescribed by the village. The owner
shall bear the expense of all measurement, analysis and reporting required by
the village. At such times as deemed necessary the village reserves the right
to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (J)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analysis
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
   (K)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefore, in
accordance with §
52.15 hereof, by the industrial concern provided such payments are in
accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
   (L)   (1)   In order to ensure that commercial and industrial users of the
village’s sanitary sewer system adhere to and comply with the restrictions and
prohibitions set forth in this section pertaining to prohibited discharges into
the village’s sanitary sewer system, and to facilitate the village’s
investigation of apparent or suspected violations thereof, all such existing
commercial and industrial users, and all such users occupying facilities
located on any nonresidentially zoned property within the village or in areas
receiving sewer service from the village, shall be required to annually
complete and submit a discharge questionnaire (reference Appendix A, Ord. 92-
01, passed September 5, 2001); provided, however, that upon the completion of
and submission to the village of an initial discharge questionnaire commercial
and industrial users and all such users occupying facilities located on any
nonresidentially zoned property within the village or in areas receiving sewer
service from the village may thereafter comply with the provisions of this
division by annually submitting to the village a notarized statement of any and
all changes in the information requested by the discharge questionnaire or a
notarized statement that the information originally submitted in response to
the initial discharge questionnaire remains true, complete and correct in all
respects. Completed discharge questionnaires, statements of changes in
information submitted in response to a previously filed discharge questionnaire
or statements affirming the continuing truth, completeness and correctness of
information submitted in response to a previously filed discharge
questionnaire, as the case may be, shall be filed by existing commercial and
industrial users and all such users occupying facilities located on any
nonresidentially zoned property within the village or in areas receiving sewer
service from the village with the Village Department of Public Works not later
than January 31 of each calendar year, and all new commercial and industrial
users and all such users occupying facilities located on any nonresidentially
zoned property within the village or in areas receiving sewer service from the
village seeking to establish a new account for sanitary sewer service from the
village or to establish a new connection to the village’s sanitary system shall
file an initial completed discharge questionnaire with the village as a
condition to the establishment of such new sanitary sewer service account or
connection to the village’s sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Any commercial or industrial user of the village’s sanitary sewer
system or any such users occupying facilities located on any nonresidentially
zoned property within the village or in areas receiving sewer service from the
village that fail to complete and submit to the village an initial discharge
questionnaire, an annual statement of changes in information submitted in
response to a previously filed discharge questionnaire or an annual statement
affirming the continuing truth, completeness and correctness of information
submitted in response to a previously filed discharge questionnaire shall be in
violation of the provisions of this division (L) and shall be subject to all of
the applicable penalties therefor, including, but expressly not limited to, the
revocation of all permits and approvals previously granted to the commercial or
industrial user in question for the discharge of sewage or wastewater into the
village sanitary sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 52.13) (Ord. 2132-91, passed 9-18-1991; Ord. 92-01, passed 9-5-
2001; Ord. 103-01A, passed 11-20-2001; Ord. 0073-02, passed 10-2-2002; Ord. 25-
2001, passed 8-20-2025) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
   (B)   Industrial and commercial users will supply annually, or upon change,
all information relevant to chemicals used in conjunction with the operation
and maintenance of the facility.
(Prior Code, § 52.14) (Ord. 2132-91, passed 9-18-1991; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The duly authorized employees of the village, the State Environmental
Protection Agency and the United States Environmental Protection Agency,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The village or
its representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other
industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, duly authorized employees of the village, the State
Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Environmental Protection
Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees and the village shall indemnify the company against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain conditions as
required in §
52.18(I).
   (C)   Duly authorized employees of the village bearing proper credentials
and identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the village holds a duly negotiated, easement for the purpose of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
   (D)   Property owners shall have the right to refuse entry to portions of
their properties not subject to a public utility easement in favor of the
village, but in such an event, the village shall have the right to file for and
obtain an administrative search warrant to enter and search the premises in
question.
(Prior Code, § 52.15) (Ord. 2132-91, passed 9-18-1991; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 52.21 SEWER LINE MAINTENANCE/REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The property owner is responsible for the maintenance and repair of
the private sewer line from their structure to the main sewer or public sewer
including the tap into the main/public sewer.
   (B)   In the event the property owner finds it necessary to excavate the
private sewer line for maintenance or replacement, that shall be the property
owners responsibility.
   (C)   In those instances when property owners have had to excavate and as a
result, the sidewalk, curb and street have been dug out, the village will be
responsible for the restoration of the street (surface and subsurface) curb and
sidewalk.
   (D)   In those instances where division (C) above is involved, it is
recommended tunneling under the curb and sidewalk whenever practical. Sidewalk
and curb must be cut when removal is required.
   (E)   All work, as it is related to the replacement and/or repair of the
private sewer line, shall be in conformance with the village standard
construction specifications and will be inspected by a village inspector during
the repair and replacement.
(Prior Code, § 52.16) (Ord. 2236-93, passed 9-1-1993; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
52.19 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village may revoke any
permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of
this chapter.
   (B)   The village may pursue the enforcement of violations of this chapter
in an action filed with the Circuit Court of the 12th Judicial Circuit of the
county, together with such other and further relief as the village may be
entitled to under this chapter or other applicable law. In addition, the
village shall also have the right to enforce against violations of this chapter
and to obtain any other relief to which it may be entitled by means of
initiating appropriate proceedings before the village’s administrative hearing
officer pursuant to Chapter 41.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
this title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than
$250 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village by reason of such violation.
   (E)   Industrial and commercial users will pay fees relevant to acceptance
of flows difficult to stabilize through the processes employed for the
treatment of wastewater, reasonably calculated to reflect the incremental cost
to the village of treating the flows in question.
   (F)   Any person aggrieved by any action taken or notice issued under this
chapter shall have the right to appeal the same in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §
41.20.
(Prior Code, § 52.99) (Ord. 2132-91, passed 9-18-1991; Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-
20-1996; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-20-2025)
CHAPTER 53: PUBLIC WATERWORKS CROSS-CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
Protection Regulations
   
53.15   Auxiliary water supply
   
53.16   Toxic or hazardous substances under pressure
   
53.17   Toxic or hazardous substances not under pressure
   
53.18   Nonhazardous substances
   
53.19   Sewage treatment plant and pumping stations
   
53.20   Service connections from village water supply
   
53.21   Consumer to install, maintain required protection devices
Separation of Water Mains and Lines from Sewers
   
53.35   Horizontal separation of water mains
   
53.36   Vertical separation of water mains
   
53.37   Water service lines
Administration; Enforcement
   
53.50   Inspection and maintenance
   
53.51   Discontinuance of water service upon noncompliance
   
53.52   Violations; discontinuance of service
   
53.53   Resumption of service
Cross-reference:
   Construction of utility facilities in the rights-of-way, see
Chapter 55
   Waterworks system, see
Chapter 50
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. A physical break between a supply pipe and a receiving
vessel. The air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, and in no case less than
one inch.
   APPROVED CHECK VALVE. A check valve that seats readily and completely. It
must be carefully machined to have free-moving parts and assured
watertightness. The face of the closure element and valve seat must be of
bronze composition or other noncorrodible material which will seat tightly
under all prevailing conditions of field use. Pins and bushings shall be of
bronze or other noncorrodible, nonsticking material, machined for easy,
dependable operation. The closure element (that is, the clapper) shall be
internally weighted or otherwise internally equipped to promote rapid and
positive closure in all sizes where this feature is obtainable.
   APPROVED DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of at least two
independently acting approved check valves including tightly closing shutoff
valves on each side of the check valve assembly and suitable leak detector
drains plus connections available for testing the watertightness of each check
valve. Unless otherwise authorized by the Director of Public Works, a pressure
relief valve, rated at no more than 50 psi greater than the water service
pressure, shall be installed on the downstream side of the double check valve
assembly.
   APPROVED REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device
incorporating two or more check valves and an automatically operating
differential relief valve located between the two checks, two shutoff valves
and equipped with necessary appurtenances for testing. The device shall operate
to maintain the pressure in the zone between the two check valves less than the
pressure on the public water supply side of the device. At cessation of normal
flow, the pressure between the check valves shall be less than the supply
pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief
valve shall operate to maintain this reduced pressure by discharging to the
atmosphere. When the inlet pressure is two pounds per square inch or less, the
relief valve shall open to the atmosphere thereby providing an air gap in the
device. To be approved, these devices must be readily accessible for
maintenance and testing and installed in a location where no part of the device
will be submerged. Unless otherwise authorized by the Director of Public Works,
a pressure relief valve rated at no more than 50 psi greater than the water
service pressure shall be installed on the downstream side of the reduced
pressure principle flow prevention device.
   APPROVED WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply approved by or under the public
supervision of the Director of Public Works. In determining what constitutes an
approved water supply, the Director shall have the final judgment as to its
safety and potability.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the village water supply.
   CONSUMER. Any person to whom water is sold and furnished from the village
water supply by the village.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the village water supply by
the presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, radiological or
biological) to a degree which creates a hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any unprotected connection between any part of the village
waterworks system used or intended to supply water for drinking purposes and
any source or system containing water or substances that are not or cannot be
approved as safe, wholesome and potable for human consumption.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the village or their authorized
representatives.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, association, organization, partnership,
trust or association of persons, joint venture, corporation or company.
   PREMISES. Integrated land area, including improvements thereon, undivided by
public thoroughfares or water distribution mains of the village where all parts
of the premises are operated under the same management and for the same
purpose.
   PROTECTIVE DEVICE. Any of the following devices:
      (1)   Air gap separation;
      (2)   Approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device; or
      (3)   Approved double check valve assembly.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service connection from the
village water supply at its point of delivery to the consumer. If a meter is
installed, SERVICE CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter. No
unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of any meter of backflow
protective device located at the point of delivery to the consumer shall be
permitted.
   WATER SUPPLY OF VILLAGE. An approved water supply sold and delivered to
consumers’ premises through the waterworks system of the village.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987)
**** PROTECTION REGULATIONS ****
§ 53.15 AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Each service connection from the village water supply for furnishing
water to premises having an auxiliary water supply shall be protected against
backflow of water from the premises into the village water supply, unless the
auxiliary water supply is an approved water supply or is accepted as an
additional source by the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   If the auxiliary water supply is not an approved water supply or if it
is not accepted as an additional source and approved in the manner specified in
division (A) above, and the auxiliary water supply is handled in a separate
piping system with no known cross-connection, the village water supply shall be
protected by an approved double check valve assembly installed at the service
connection to the premises. When the auxiliary water supply may be
contaminated, the Director may order the village water supply protected by an
air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device installed at the service connection.
   (C)   If the auxiliary water supply is not an approved water supply or if it
is not accepted as an additional source and approved in the manner specified in
division (A) above, and cross-connections are known to exist between the
village water supply and the auxiliary water supply which cannot presently be
eliminated, the village water supply shall be protected by an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device installed at the service
connection to the premises. A double check valve assembly may be used in lieu
of such device if the experience of the Director indicates that double check
valves are reliably operated, and if approved by the Director.
   (D)   When the auxiliary water supply may be contaminated, the Director may
order the village water supply protected by an air gap separation installed at
the service connection.
(Prior Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.16 TOXIC OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES UNDER PRESSURE.
   At the service connection to any premises on which any material dangerous to
health or toxic substance in toxic concentration is or may be handled under
pressure, the village water supply shall be protected by an air gap separation.
The air gap shall be located as close as practicable to the service cock and
all piping between the service cock and receiving tank shall be entirely
visible. If these conditions cannot reasonably be met, the village water supply
shall be protected with an approved lead-free reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device in accordance with national and local plumbing
codes.
(Prior Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987; Ord. 06-0485, passed 12-
6-2006; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.17 TOXIC OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES NOT UNDER PRESSURE.
   At the service connection to any premises on which any material dangerous to
health or toxic substance in toxic concentration is not handled under pressure
but is otherwise handled in such a manner as to constitute a cross-connection,
the village water supply shall be protected by an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device unless such cross-connection is abated to
the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works. An approved double check
valve assembly may be used in lieu of such device if experience indicates that
double check valves are reliably operated and if approved by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 53.07) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.18 NONHAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
   At the service connection to any premises on which a substance that would be
objectionable (but not necessarily hazardous to health) if introduced into the
village water supply is handled in such a manner as to constitute a cross-
connection, the village water supply shall be protected by an approved double
check valve assembly unless such cross-connection is abated to the satisfaction
of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 53.08) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.19 SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT AND PUMPING STATIONS.
   At the service connection to any sewage treatment plant or sewage pumping
station, the village water supply shall be protected by an air gap separation.
The air gap shall be located as close as practicable to the service cock and
all piping between the service cock and receiving tank shall be entirely
visible. If these conditions cannot be reasonably met, the village water supply
shall be protected with an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device; provided this alternative is acceptable to the Director of
Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 53.09) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987)
§ 53.20 SERVICE CONNECTIONS FROM VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Each service connection from the village water supply for furnishing
water to premises on which any substance is or may be handled in such a manner
as to permit entry into the village water supply shall be protected against
backflow of the substance from the premises into the village water supply. This
shall include the handling of process waters and waters originating from the
village water supply which have been subject to change in quality.
   (B)   Backflow protective devices shall be installed on the service
connection to any premises that have internal cross-connection.
(Prior Code, § 53.10) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987; Ord. 06-0485, passed 12-
6-2006) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.21 CONSUMER TO INSTALL, MAINTAIN REQUIRED PROTECTION DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of each consumer at their own expense
to purchase, install and keep in good working order and safe condition any and
all protective devices required by this chapter. The village shall not be
responsible for any loss or damage directly or indirectly resulting from or
caused by improper or negligent installation, operation, use, repair,
maintenance of or interference with any protective device by any consumer or
any other person.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the occupant or building/property
owner to ensure the required annual inspection of the backflow device is
preformed, as required, and a copy of the preformed inspection is received by
the Public Works Department. If the device requires further maintenance or
replacement, this shall be handled within five days following the inspection
and the appropriate documents also forwarded to the Public Works Department.
   (C)   If a device requires replacement, the inspection report submitted for
the new replacement device must also declare the serial number and size of the
device that previously existed.
(Prior Code, § 53.11) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987; Ord. 06-0485, passed 12-
6-2006; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see § 53.99
**** SEPARATION OF WATER MAINS AND LINES FROM SEWERS ****
§ 53.35 HORIZONTAL SEPARATION OF WATER MAINS.
   (A)   A water main shall be laid at least ten feet horizontally from any
existing or proposed drain or sewer line. However, should local conditions
prevail which would prevent a lateral separation of ten feet, a water main may
be laid closer than ten feet to or in the same trench as a storm or sanitary
sewer; provided the main is laid in a separate trench or on an undisturbed
earth shelf located to one side of the sewer and at such an elevation that the
bottom of the water main is at least 18 inches above the top of the sewer.
   (B)   If it is impossible to obtain proper horizontal and vertical
separation as stipulated in this section and §
53.36, both the water main and sewer shall be constructed of mechanical-joint,
cast-iron pipe and shall be pressure-tested to assure watertightness before
backfilling.
(Prior Code, § 53.20) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.36 VERTICAL SEPARATION OF WATER MAINS.
   (A)   Whenever water mains must cross house sewers, storm drains or sanitary
sewers, the water main shall be laid at such an elevation that the bottom of
the water main is 18 inches above the top of the drain or sewer. This vertical
separation shall be maintained for that portion of the water main located
within ten feet horizontally of any sewer or drain crossed, this ten feet to be
measured as the normal distance from the water main to the drain or sewer.
   (B)   Where conditions exist such that the minimum vertical separation set
forth in division (A) above cannot be maintained, or it is necessary for the
water main to pass under a sewer or drain, the water main shall be laid with
mechanical-joint, cast-iron pipe; and the mechanical-pipe shall extend on each
side of the crossing until the normal distance from the water main to the sewer
or drain line is at least ten feet. Where a water main must cross under a
sewer, a vertical separation of 18 inches between the bottom of the sewer and
the top of the water main shall be maintained, along with means to support the
larger-sized sewer lines to prevent their settling and breaking the water main.
(Prior Code, § 53.21) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.37 WATER SERVICE LINES.
   The horizontal and vertical separation between water service lines and all
sanitary sewers, storm sewers or any drain shall be the same as for water
mains, as detailed in §§
53.35 and
53.36. However, when minimum horizontal and vertical separation cannot be
maintained, brass, copper or lead, in addition to mechanical-joint, cast-iron
pipe, may be used for water service lines.
(Prior Code, § 53.22) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987) Penalty, see § 53.99
**** ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 53.50 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer, at any premises in which
backflow prevention devices are required by these regulations are installed, to
have inspections, tests, maintenance and repairs made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in the manufacturer’s instructions. Records of such inspections,
tests, maintenance and repairs shall be kept by the consumer at the premises
and a copy of such information shall be forwarded to the Public Works
Department within 30 days of the date the work was performed.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at
times of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within 15 days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a plumber who is registered with the
village and also carries the State Environmental Protection Agency cross-
connection control device inspector license. Proof of licensing shall be in
writing, and include the license numbers.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Servicing performed and date completed; and
      (6)   Physical location.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay. The inspection report submitted for the new device
shall also include the serial number and size of the device which was replaced.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without obtaining the required permit
from the Building Department.
   (G)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Plumbing Inspector or
their authorized agent shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time,
any property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the
owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Director any information which they may request regarding the piping system or
systems or water use on such property. The refusal to provide such information,
when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the Director, be deemed evidence
of the presence of improper connections as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.30) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987; Ord. 06-0485, passed 12-
6-2006; Ord. 22-1762, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.51 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE UPON NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed on the premises of any
consumer unless the village water supply is protected as required by this
chapter.
   (B)   Delivery of water to the premises of any consumer may be discontinued
by the Director of Public Works if any protective device required by this
chapter has not been installed, inspected, tested and maintained; is defective;
or has been removed or bypassed.
   (C)   Delivery of water shall be discontinued immediately and without notice
to the consumer if the Director determines that:
      (1)   The village water supply is being contaminated or is in immediate
danger of contamination;
      (2)   A protective device required by this chapter has not been
installed, is defective or has been removed or bypassed; and
      (3)   The consumer cannot immediately be located.
   (D)   Delivery of water shall not be resumed until any protective device
required by this chapter and approved by the Director has been properly
installed, or until conditions at the consumer’s premises causing the
contamination or danger of contamination have been abated or corrected to the
satisfaction of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 53.31) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.52 VIOLATIONS; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Director is authorized and directed to discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any property
wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this subchapter is
known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as they may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee is paid to the
village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Director is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public
water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the Director or the State Environmental Protection
Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply. Neither the Public Water Supply, the
Director or its agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any
injury, damage or lost revenues, which may result from termination of the
customer’s water supply, in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether
or not the termination was with or without notice.
   (B)   The Director shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any backflow
prevention device required by these regulations is not installed, tested,
maintained or repaired in a manner acceptable to the Director, or if it is
found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure
cut-off required by these regulations is not installed and maintained in
working order.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Director, and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
(Prior Code, § 53.32) (Ord. 1015-1987, passed 9-2-1987; Ord. 06-0485, passed
12-6-2006)
§ 53.53 RESUMPTION OF SERVICE.
   Once discontinued, delivery of water shall not be resumed until any
protection device required by this chapter and approved by the Director of
Public Works has been properly installed, or until the conditions at the
consumer’s premises creating the need for a protective device have been abated
or corrected to the satisfaction of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 53.33) (Ord. 1015-87, passed 9-2-1987)
CHAPTER 54: WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Enactment
   
54.002   Purpose and policy
   
54.003   Administration
   
54.004   Jurisdiction
   
54.005   Funding
   
54.006   Abbreviations
   
54.007   Definitions
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
54.020   Applicability
   
54.021   Prohibited discharge standards
   
54.022   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
54.023   State limits
   
54.024   Local limits
   
54.025   Right of revision
   
54.026   Sampling facilities
   
54.027   Monitoring requirements
   
54.028   Analytical requirements
   
54.029   Protection of village sampling and flow metering equipment from damage
   
54.030   Grease management
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
54.045   Pretreatment facilities
   
54.046   Additional pretreatment measures
   
54.047   Spill prevention contaminant and counter measures plan/slug control
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
   
54.060   Wastewater information and analysis
   
54.061   Wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
54.062   Wastewater discharge permitting; existing connections
   
54.063   Wastewater discharge permitting; new connections
   
54.064   Wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
54.065   Application signatories and certification
   
54.066   Wastewater discharge permit decisions
Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
   
54.080   Wastewater discharge permit duration
   
54.081   Wastewater discharge permit contents
   
54.082   Wastewater discharge permit appeals
   
54.083   Wastewater discharge permit modification
   
54.084   Wastewater discharge permit transfer
   
54.085   Wastewater discharge permit revocation
   
54.086   Wastewater discharge permit reissuance
   
54.087   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Reporting Requirements
   
54.100   Reports
   
54.101   Pretreatment requirements for non-categorical industrial users
   
54.102   Pretreatment requirements for categorical industrial users
   
54.103   Periodic compliance reports/self-monitoring reports
   
54.104   Reports of changed conditions
   
54.105   Authorized representative change notification
   
54.106   Reports of potential problems
   
54.107   Reports from unpermitted users
   
54.108   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
54.109   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
54.110   Report submittal due dates
   
54.111   Record keeping
Compliance Monitoring
   
54.125   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
54.126   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
54.140   Confidential and public information
Publication of Users in Significant Noncompliance
   
54.155   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
54.170   Notification of violation
   
54.171   Compliance agreements
   
54.172   Show cause order
   
54.173   Compliance orders
   
54.174   Cease and desist orders
   
54.175   Emergency suspensions
   
54.176   Termination of discharge
Penalties and Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
54.190   Failure to report or notify
   
54.191   Injunctive relief
   
54.192   Civil penalties
   
54.193   Remedies nonexclusive
   
54.194   Sanctions attach to property
Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
54.205   Performance bonds
   
54.206   Liability insurance
   
54.207   Water supply severance
   
54.208   Public nuisances
   
54.209   Contractor listing
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
54.220   Upset
   
54.221   Bypass
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
54.235   Pretreatment charges and fees
   
54.236   Severability
   
Appendix A:   Enforcement Response Plan
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 54.001 ENACTMENT.
   Pursuant to the requirements of Title II of the Clean Water Act amendments,
33 U.S.C. §§ 1281 et seq., and regulations promulgated thereunder, the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act of 1970, 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq., as amended, and in
accordance with the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1 et seq., this chapter
is enacted by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 54.001) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.002 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
publicly-owned treatment works for the village and enables the village to
comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water
Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40
C.F.R. pt. 403).
      (2)   The objectives of this chapter are:
         (a)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly-
owned treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
         (b)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly-
owned treatment works that will pass through the publicly-owned treatment
works, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible
with the publicly-owned treatment works;
         (c)   To protect both publicly-owned treatment works personnel who may
be affected by air, wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and
the general public;
         (d)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and
sludge from the publicly-owned treatment works;
         (e)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost
of operation, maintenance and improvement of the publicly-owned treatment
works; and
         (f)   To enable the village to comply with its national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit conditions, biosolids use and disposal
requirements and any other federal or state laws to which the publicly-owned
treatment works is subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly-owned treatment
works. The chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits;
provides for monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities; establishes
administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program established herein.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged to the
POTW, without having first complied with the terms of this chapter. At minimum,
all users are subject to the prohibited discharge standards in §
54.021, change notification in §
54.105 and hazardous waste notification in §
54.109, if applicable. Spill/slug control planning may also be necessary for
some users as identified in §
54.047.
(Prior Code, § 54.002) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.003 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Pretreatment Coordinator and/or the
person delegated by the Coordinator, or the President of the village as such,
shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any
powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Pretreatment Coordinator or the
President of the village may be delegated by the Pretreatment Coordinator to
other village personnel or agents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 54.003) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.004 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to the village and to persons outside the village
who are, by contract or agreement with the village, users of the village POTW,
including all discharges located within the Bolingbrook service area, as
defined by the joint wastewater service agreement, entered into by and between
this village and the Village of Bolingbrook.
(Prior Code, § 54.004) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.005 FUNDING.
   It is the intent of the village to pass all costs of the program to
industrial users. The charges shall apply to those dischargers subject to the
pretreatment program.
(Prior Code, § 54.005) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.006 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   (A)   IAC - Illinois Administrative Code;
   (B)   BOD - Biochemical oxygen demand;
   (C)   BMR - Baseline monitoring report;
   (D)   C.F.R. - Code of Federal Regulations;
   (E)   CIU - Categorical industrial user;
   (F)   COD - Chemical oxygen demand;
   (G)   DNQ - Detected not quantifiable;
   (H)   FOG - Fats, oils and grease;
   (I)   GI - Grease interceptor;
   (J)   gpd - Gallons per day;
   (K)   IEPA - Illinois Environmental Protection Agency;
   (L)   IU - Industrial user;
   (M)   CTAS - Cobalt thiocyanate active substance;
   (N)   mg/l - Milligrams per liter;
   (O)   ND - Not detected;
   (P)   NPDES - National pollutant discharge elimination system;
   (Q)   NSCIU - Non-significant categorical industrial user;
   (R)   NSRU - Non-significant regulated user;
   (S)   NUA - Non-uniform allocation;
   (T)   POTW - Publicly-owned treatment works;
   (U)   PQL - Practical quantification limit;
   (V)   PSES - Pretreatment standards for existing sources;
   (W)   PSNS - Pretreatment standards for new sources;
   (X)   ppm - Part per million;
   (Y)   RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq.;
   (Z)   SIU - Significant industrial user;
   (AA)   SNC - Significant noncompliance;
   (BB)   SSC - Spill/slug control;
   (CC)   SWDA - Solid Waste Disposal Act;
   (DD)   MBAS - Methylene blue active substances;
   (EE)   TSS - Total suspended solids;
   (FF)   U.S.C. - United States Code; and
   (GG)   USEPA - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 54.006) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT or CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation, by a responsible corporate officer:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility, including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual Wastewater Permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility or its designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company and the
written authorization is submitted to the village.
      (5)   If an authorization under division (4) above is no longer accurate
because a different individual or position has responsibility for the overall
operation of the facility, or overall environmental matters for the company, a
new authorization satisfying the requirements of division (4) above must be
submitted to the village within five working days of the change in personnel.
   BATCH DISCHARGE. A single planned or scheduled release of a known volume
accumulated on site over a period of time containing one or more pollutants.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
54.021 (40 CFR § 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment requirements,
operating procedures and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or
leaks, biosolids or waste disposal or drainage from raw materials storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
approved in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   BIOSOLIDS. The nutrient-rich organic materials resulting from the treatment
of sewage sludge.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by USEPA in accordance with §
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a specific category
of users with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). Chemical oxidation under standard laboratory
procedures as described in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   COMBINED WASTE STREAM FORMULA. The formula set forth in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6
(e).
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A sample of wastewater collected based on a flow
proportional or time proportional method.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use, such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   COORDINATOR. See PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR.
   DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued to a user that specifies the requirements
for discharge of wastewater or the requirements for zero discharge of
wastewater as appropriate.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility or installation from
which there is or may be a discharge, which is not a new source.
   FATS, OIL AND GREASE (FOG). Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats,
waxes, oils and any other material that is extracted by a solvent in a method
approved in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136.
   FLOATABLE OIL. FOG in a state such that it will separate by gravity from
wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility.
   FLOW. Volume of wastewater per unit of time.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling, storage and sale of
produce or food.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a waste stream on a onetime basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to
exceed 15 minutes.
   HAULED WASTE. Wastewater that is removed from the facility which it was
created in a container meant for vehicular transport for disposal elsewhere.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into a POTW
from any non-domestic source.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge from a non-domestic
source.
   INDUSTRIAL (WASTE STREAM, WASTEWATER). A combination of liquid and water
earned wastes discharged from any industrial user, including the wastewater
from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge by any user which, alone or in conjunction with
discharges by other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use of disposal and which is a
cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTWs NPDES permit (including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the prevention of
wastewater or sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with the
following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or
more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean Water Act, being
33 U.S.C. § 1345; the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901
et seq. (including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and including state regulations contained
in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D or SWDA);
the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substance Control
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; and the Marine Protection Research and
Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   LOCAL LIMIT. A limit on discharges of a specific pollutant developed and
enforced by the village upon users or facilities to implement the general and
specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTES. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER or mg/l. A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent representing 0.001 grams of the constituent in one liter
of water.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD, CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge
limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a specific category of users and which appear in
40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N, pts. 405 through 471.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The national
program for issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing, terminating, monitoring
and enforcing permits from point sources to waters of the United States, and
imposing and enforcing pretreatment requirements, under §§ 307, 402, 318 and
405 of the Act.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT (NPDES PERMIT). A
permit issued under the national pollutant discharge elimination system for
discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant
to the Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section; provided
that one of the following is true:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the site. In determining whether these are substantially
independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated
with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in
the same general type of activity as the existing source, should be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE, as defined under this section, has
commenced if the owner of operator has done one of the following:
         (a)   Begun, or caused one of the following to begin as part of a
continuous on-site construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including, clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment that is intended to be used in its operation within
a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts that can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
division.
      (4)   New sources shall install and have in operating condition and shall
“start-up” all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable
pretreatment standards before beginning to discharge. Within the shortest
feasible time (not to exceed 90 days), NEW SOURCES shall meet all applicable
standards.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL (SOURCE, USER). Any partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity or any other legal entity or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local
governmental entities. See definition of USER.
   NON-SIGNIFICANT REGULATED USER (NSRU). A source of indirect discharge from a
non-residential source that is regulated through a discharge permit issued by
the village’s pretreatment program that the Coordinator deems as having the
potential to interfere with the intent of this chapter, but is not classified
as an SIU.
   PASS THROUGH. The discharge of pollutants that exits the POTW into waters of
the United States in quantities or concentrations, which, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of
any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or basicity of a solution, calculated by taking
the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, wastewater sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt or industrial, municipal, agricultural and
industrial wastes and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH,
temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor.)
   PPM. Parts per million and is equivalent to milligrams per liter when water
is the solvent.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The village facilities designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes; by
process changes; or by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the
pollutants unless allowed by an applicable PRETREATMENT standard.
   PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR. The Director of Public Works of the village or
designee.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. The for any specified pollutant,
village prohibitive discharge standards as set forth in 35 I.A.C. pt. 310
village specific limitations on discharge as set forth in 35 I.A.C. pt. 310 and
effluent standards or the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards,
whichever standard is most stringent.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances. These prohibitions
appear in §
54.021 and 40 CFR § 403.5.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). The “treatment works,” as defined by
§ 212 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1292, owned by the village and any devices
and systems used in the conveyance, storage, treatment, recycling or
reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature that
are connected to the village POTW regardless of ownership, but does not include
sewers, pipes and other conveyances not connected to the village POTW treatment
plant.
   RESIDENTIAL (SOURCE OR USER). Any single-family or multi-family dwelling
unit designed primarily as a place of human habitation which discharges only
domestic wastewater to the POTW. If a residential user operates a business out
of their dwelling, at the discretion of the Coordinator, the introduction of
pollutants into the POTW originating from the operation of the business may be
subject to regulation under this chapter.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which is designed to carry wastewater from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SANITARY WASTEWATER. See WASTEWATER.
   SHALL/MAY. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any industrial user of the POTW who:
         (a)   Is subject to any national categorical pretreatment standards;
or
         (b)   A user that:
            1.   Has an average process wastewater discharge flow of 25,000
gallons (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blow-down
wastewater) or more per work day;
            2.   Has a discharge flow of process wastewater that makes up 5% or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
            3.   Is designated as such by the village on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (2)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (1)(b)
above has not reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the village may at
any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a
user, determine that such user should not be considered a significant
industrial user.
   SLUDGE. The settleable solids separated from the liquids during the
wastewater treatment processes.
   SLUG or SLUG LOAD. Any discharge of water or wastewater which is non-
routine, episodic nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or
a non-customary batch discharge that could cause a violation of the prohibited
discharge standards in §
54.021.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   T. As in Cyanide, T means total.
   TAP. The connection to the sewer main through the use of a factory “wye” or
“tee”, a saddle connection, an Inserta tee or other plumber connection (i.e.,
hammer tap).
   TOTAL SURFACTANTS. The sum of anionic surfactants as MBAS, nonionic
surfactants as CTAS and cationic surfactants measured as the difference between
sublation residue and MBAS and CTAS values.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Total suspended matter, expressed in
milligrams per liter, that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension
in water, wastewater or other liquids and is removable by laboratory
filtration, as prescribed methods in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136.
   TOTAL TOXIC ORGANICS. The summation of all quantifiable values greater than
the practical quantitation limit for the toxic organics specified in the
applicable regulation.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the
reasonable control of the industrial user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance or careless or improper operation.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water having a quality equal to or better than the
effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
and treatment by the POTW.
   USER. Any person or source that contributes, causes or permits the
contribution of wastewater into the POTW.
   USEPA. See ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Romeoville.
   WASTEWATER. The combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
      (1)   SANITARY WASTEWATER means the combination of liquid and water
carried wastes discharged from toilets and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER means a combination of liquid and water
carried wastes discharged from any industrial user, including the wastewater
from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. The document or documents issued to a user by
the village pursuant to §§
54.080 through
54.087.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT or WWTP. The portion of the
POTW which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
   WATERS OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water
courses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems,
drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Those standards defined in the Title 35 of the
I.A.C.
(Prior Code, § 54.007) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 54.020 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged to any
facility served by the village, without having first complied with the terms of
this chapter.
   (B)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the POTW which contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
54.021, or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in
40 C.F.R. pt. 403, and any amendments thereto, or which in the judgment of the
Village may have a deleterious effect upon the POTW or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may reject the wastes, require pretreatment to an
acceptable condition for discharge to the POTW or require control over the
quantities or rates of discharge. If the Coordinator permits the pretreatment
or equalization of wastewater flows, the design and installation of the
facilities and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Coordinator and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances
and laws
   (C)   Each user that discharges wastewater to the POTW shall provide
wastewater treatment and best management practices as required to comply with
this chapter and shall comply with all categorical pretreatment standards,
local limits and the prohibitions set forth in §
54.021 within the time limitations specified by USEPA, the state or the
Pretreatment Coordinator, whichever is more stringent.
(Prior Code, § 54.020) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.021 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   The following general prohibitions apply to all users of a POTW whether or
not they are subject to a categorical pretreatment standard or any other
national, state or local pretreatment standard:
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, to the village sewage works, any pollutant or wastewater
contaminant that will pass through, cause interference with, inhibition of or
upset to the operation of the POTW.
   (B)   No user shall contribute or cause to be discharged, either directly or
indirectly, any of the following described pollutants, substances or wastewater
into the POTW.
      (1)   No discharger shall increase the use of potable or process water in
any other way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment in order to achieve compliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement except where expressly authorized to do so
by an applicable categorical pretreatment standard;
      (2)   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, uncontaminated
noncontact cooling water, stormwater, surface and groundwaters, roof runoff,
spill contaminant area runoff, footing drains or construction drainage except
as specifically permitted by the Pretreatment Coordinator;
      (3)   Any solids, solid wastes, liquids or gases which, by reason of
their nature or quantity, are or may be sufficient, either alone or by
interaction, to cause safety hazards, fire or explosion or be injurious in any
other way to the facilities or personnel of the village, or to the operation of
village POTW. Materials considered in this regard are those with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods specified in 40
C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (4)   Any solid, solid waste or viscous substance that shall or may cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer, or other interference to the operation of
the wastewater system. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to:
grease, grease trap wastes, garbage with particles greater than one-half-inch
in any direction, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or
fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime,
stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags,
spent grains or hops, paper, wood, plastics, residues from gas, tar or asphalt,
residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oils, mud or glass
grinding or polishing waste, fatty acids or esters of fatty acids or any
material which can be disposed of as trash;
      (5)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      (6)   Any wastewater containing noxious or malodorous solids, liquids or
gases, which either singly or by their interaction are capable of creating a
public nuisance or hazard to life, or to interfere with, inhibit or upset any
operation of POTW, including, but not limited to, prevention of entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems or which necessitates the village taking special measures to
counteract and/or alleviate the impact of the pollutant(s);
      (8)   Any wastewater having a temperature which shall inhibit biological
activity in the village’s POTW facilities, but in no case heat in such a
quantity that the influent temperature at the sewage treatment plant to which
the user discharges will exceed 40°C (104°F);
      (9)   Any substance or combination of substances which shall cause the
village facilities to be in violation of its NPDES permit(s), or to cause the
village’s POTW to violate receiving stream water quality and/or general
effluent discharge standards;
      (10)   Any substance with objectionable color that is not removed in the
treatment processes, such as, but not limited to: dye waste, ink waste and
vegetable tanning solutions;
      (11)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or higher than 10.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel in the system. The pH limits shall be met at
all times, and are not subject to averaging;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction, to injure, interfere with or upset any
wastewater treatment processes or facilities, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals or to exceed limitation as set forth in the existing Act or the Act as
it may be amended;
      (13)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants, released in
a discharge at a flow rate and/or concentration (including any slug load),
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which may interfere with,
inhibit or upset the POTW;
      (14)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes,
except in accordance with village, state and federal rules governing such
discharges;
      (15)   Any wastewater containing any organism, including viruses,
considered pathogenic and/or detrimental to process organisms other than by
direct excrement and any other wastes defined as medical waste;
      (16)   Any leachate or remediation wastewater, except at discharge points
designated by the PT Coordinator;
      (17)   All trucked or hauled wastes;
      (18)   Biosolids, sludges, screenings or other residues from the
pretreatment of nonresidential wastes;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the POTW effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (20)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances that may cause excessive foaming in the POTW. Wastes prohibited in
this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could
be discharged to the POTW;
      (21)   Any solid, solid waste or viscous substances that have caused an
obstruction to the flow in a sewer that is eliminated by a professional service
or contractor;
      (22)   Any substances that inhibit the use of UV for disinfection
purposes; and
      (25)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, filler earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or dissolved solids
(such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
(Prior Code, § 54.021) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025) Penalty, see § 54.999
§ 54.022 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The pretreatment requirement shall apply to all non-domestic users
subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, promulgated by the
USEPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b)
and (c), currently discharging or scheduled to discharge to the village. The
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, found in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1,
Subchapter N, pts. 405 through 471, are incorporated into this chapter.
   (B)   Limits in Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall apply to the
discharge from the process regulated by the standard or as otherwise specified
by the standard. Compliance with National Categorical Pretreatment Standards is
mandatory.
      (1)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in
terms of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(c) unless specifically restricted by the
categorical standard. These equivalent limitations calculated in accordance of
the following requirements are deemed pretreatment standards. Users shall be
required to comply with the equivalent limitations instead of the promulgated
categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived. An
alternative pretreatment limit shall not be used if the alternative limit is
below the analytical detection limit for any of the regulated pollutants.
      (2)   (a)   When the limits in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit production, the village
may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual users.
         (b)   The village calculating equivalent mass-per-day limitations
shall calculate such limitations by multiplying the limits in the standard by
the user’s average rate of production. This average rate of production shall be
based not upon the designed production capacity, but rather upon a reasonable
measure of the user’s actual long-term daily production during a representative
year. For new sources, actual production shall be estimated using projected
production.
         (c)   The village calculating equivalent concentration limitations
shall calculate such limitations by dividing the mass limitations by the
average daily flow rate of the user’s regulated process wastewater. This
average daily flow rate must be based upon a reasonable measure of the user’s
actual long-term average flow rate, such as the average daily flow rate during
the representative year.
      (3)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Pretreatment
Coordinator shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream
formula in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(e); provided that the regulation allows the
wastewaters to be mixed and the user can supply the information necessary to
issue an alternative limit.
      (4)   A user may request a variance from USEPA based on fundamentally
different factors. The request must comply with the procedural and substantive
provisions in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.13.
      (5)   A user may request a net gross adjustment to a categorical
pretreatment standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.15.
   (C)   All users that are subject to National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards are required to file reports as required in this chapter, signed by
an authorized representative. These reports shall include all information that
the village deems necessary to make compliance determinations.
(Prior Code, § 54.022) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.023 STATE LIMITS.
   All users are subject to state standards and requirements as defined in 35
I.A.C. 307 and any future amendments or revision thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 54.023) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025) Penalty, see § 54.999
§ 54.024 LOCAL LIMITS.
   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass
through and interference.
   (A)   Conventional pollutants; guidelines for discharge. The guidelines
listed below are daily maximum limits:
      (1)   No user should discharge any wastewater containing concentrations
greater than the guidelines as set forth below into any sewers that connect,
either directly or indirectly, to the POTW;
 
Pollutant         Concentration
Ammonia nitrogen  50.0 mg/l
BOD               300.0 mg/l
Color             400 ADMI
FOG               100.0 mg/l
Total surfactants 250.0 mg/l
TSS               350.0 mg/l
 
      (2)   The village reserves the right to set specific standards for all
applicable pollutants above on a case-by-case basis. These standards shall be
set forth in a wastewater discharge permit per §§
54.080 through
54.087;
      (3)   The above limits apply at the point where wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations of metallic substances are for total metal
unless otherwise indicated FOG shall be measured as defined in 40 C.F.R. pt.
136, Table 1B, Parameter 41;
      (4)   If deemed appropriate by the Coordinator, and if POTW capacity and
loading allows, alternative limits may be developed for permitted users using
the non-uniform allocation methodology presented in the United States
Environmental Protection Agency’s “Local Limits Development Guidance” as
amended from time to time. These non-uniform allocation (NUA) limits shall be
written into the permit issued to the user and shall operate in place of the
local limit for the aforementioned pollutants described in division (A)(1)
above;
      (5)    Best management practices (BMP); and
      (6)   The Coordinator may develop BMPs by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits to implement local limits and the requirements
contained in this section.
   (B)   Mass limitations. The village reserves the right to establish, by
ordinance or in a wastewater discharge permit, mass limitations rather than
concentration limitations on discharges.
(Prior Code, § 54.024) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 07-0563, passed 7-
18-2007; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8- 20-2025)
§ 54.025 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The village reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits, more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to
the POTW.
   (A)   The village reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent limitations or requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter. The
specific limitations on discharges are derived from the maximum allowable
industrial loading (MAIL) calculation. The MAILS are allocated only to those
users, at the village’s discretion, that contribute the regulated pollutant.
All remaining users are held to either the background concentration or slightly
higher than background but lower than the specific discharge limit. In no case
shall the sum of allocations exceed the MAIL.
   (B)   The village will maintain a reserve of the maximum allowable headworks
pollutant loading for each pollutant for new industries or increase of
pollutant loading from existing industries The village will recalculate the
maximum concentrations from time to time using site specific data and will
consider revisions to state and federal regulations that may impact the
calculations.
(Prior Code, § 54.025) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.026 SAMPLING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   All commercial and industrial users are required to install a
monitoring manhole for each separate discharge in the building sewer in
accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the village.
      (2)   When required by the village, a categorical industrial user shall
install a large manhole or sampling chamber for the regulation location of the
categorically regulated discharge in the building sewer in accordance with
plans and specifications approved by the village.
      (3)   When required by the village, a non-categorical industrial user
shall install a large manhole or sampling chamber for the regulation of a batch
discharge within the building in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the village.
   (B)   Monitoring manhole installation.
      (1)   (a)   Such facilities will be installed and maintained at all times
at the user’s expense. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in
good working order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that the sample
results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
         (b)   Installation will be consistent with the requirements of §
54.024.
      (2)   The manhole or chamber shall be easily accessible to authorized
representatives of the village 24 hours per day, seven days per week and shall
be located in dedicated easements.
      (3)   When required, the sampling chamber shall contain a Palmer-Bowlus
or Parshall flume or equivalent, unless a weir or similar device is approved by
the village, with a recording and totalizing register. Metered water supply may
be used to determine wastewater flow if it is substantiated to the village that
the metered water supply and wastewater quantities are approximately the same,
or where an adjustment agreed to by the village is made in the metered water
supply to determine wastewater flow.
      (4)   The sampling chamber, metering device and documentation of the
frequency of sampling, sampling methods and analysis of samples shall be
subject, at any reasonable time, to inspection by the village.
      (5)   In the event that a suitable sampling facility does not exist, as
per division (A) above, the SAMPLING FACILITY shall be considered to be either
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected or the point of process wastewater discharge.
(Prior Code, § 54.026) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 07-0563, passed 7-
18-2007; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8- 20-2025)
§ 54.027 MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Flow monitoring. All permitted users are required to monitor flow of
potable water and/or wastewater at frequency stated in the user’s wastewater
discharge permit. All other users are required to flow monitor upon the request
of the village.
      (1)   (a)   Metered water supply may be used to determine wastewater flow
if it is substantiated to the village that the metered water supply and
wastewater quantities are approximately the same, or where an adjustment agreed
to by the Pretreatment Coordinator is made in the metered water supply to
determine wastewater flow and is documented through the use of sub-meters and/
or production records. In the event that the wastewater flow cannot be
substantiated at any regulated location, the user shall be required to install
flow monitoring consistent with this section.
         (b)   In the event the village, or surrounding area, should suffer
from a water shortage, the Village Board shall have the authority to suspend
the provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) above in order to encourage water
conservation. In the event that the President of the village determines and
declares that such water shortage exists, to such an extent and degree as to
constitute an emergency, then the Village President shall have the authority to
suspend the provisions of division (A)(1)(a) above pending ratification by the
Village Board at its next regularly scheduled meeting following the suspension
by the Village President. In determining whether a water shortage exists, the
Village President and Village Board may consider water shortages in the
surrounding area in addition to the adequacy of the supply of the village water
system. In the event that a future water shortage appears evident, the
provisions of division (A)(1)(a) above may also be suspended by the Village
President or Village Board prior to the existence of an emergency.
      (2)   Under authorization from the village, users may be permitted to
install additional water meters on the exterior of the user’s structure at the
user’s sole cost and expense for the purpose of measuring water not discharged
to the POTW. All users shall register with the village and provide information
requested by the village concerning the installation of additional water
meters. The Building Inspector shall have the right to inspect and regulate the
installation of additional water meters. The wastewater volume discharged to
the POTW shall be determined by subtracting the volume shown on the additional
water meter(s) from the total metered amount of water supplied to the premises.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge sampling. A user shall pay the cost of sampling
of its discharge and the cost of analyses of its samples, whether or not the
sampling and analyses are performed by the user or by the village.
      (1)   Sample frequency.
         (a)   Any NSRUs with a wastewater discharge permit shall sample their
effluent and report the results to the Coordinator in a manner consistent with
the requirements of the wastewater discharge permit.
         (b)   The sampling frequency listed in a wastewater discharge permit
may be modified by the Coordinator in the event that additional samples are
needed to demonstrate consistent compliance.
      (2)   Sample collection.
         (a)   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements shall be
based on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed
during the period covered by the report, based on data that is representative
of conditions occurring during the reporting period as defined in the
wastewater discharge permit.
         (b)   One or more grab samples may be required by the Coordinator in
the event of an infrequent batch discharge or to show compliance with
pretreatment standards, including daily maximum pretreatment standards. The
Coordinator may also allow, during an infrequent batch discharge, multiple grab
samples to be collected and composited, as appropriate, to determine compliance
with daily maximum pretreatment standards. Grab samples may not be composited
to determine compliance with instantaneous local limits.
         (c)   Samples for FOG, temperature, pH, cyanide, chromium (VI),
phenols, sulfides and volatile organic compounds shall be obtained using the
number of grab samples determined by the Coordinator to assess and assure
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards. Multiple grab samples that
are individually preserved as specified in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 and appropriate
USEPA guidance that are collected during a 24-hour period must not be
composited and must be analyzed separately to determine compliance with
instantaneous local limits. However, results may be averaged to determine
compliance with the pollutant’s respective daily maximum limit, when
applicable.
         (d)   To determine compliance with daily maximum limits only, samples
for the following pollutants may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows:
            1.   For cyanide, chromium (VI), phenols and sulfides: multiple
grab samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; and
            2.   For volatile organics and FOG: multiple grab samples may only
be composited in the laboratory.
         (e)   Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the
compositing procedures as documented in approved USEPA methodologies may be
authorized by the Coordinator, as appropriate.
   (C)   Applicability. At minimum, all significant industrial users are
required to sample based on the frequency stated in the discharge control
document. Other users are required to sample upon the request of the village.
   (D)   Frequency. All users with wastewater discharge permits must sample
their effluent and report the results to the POTW at least twice yearly for
those parameters specified in the user’s permit. The village shall have the
right to perform its own sampling at any time.
   (E)   Sample collection.
      (1)   Except as indicated in division (E)(2) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques.
      (2)   In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may authorize the use of time proportional sampling
preferably collecting at least 96 aliquots during the 24-hour work day; or a
minimum of four grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide
a representative sample of the effluent being discharged. A proportional number
of samples shall be collected for wastewater discharges less than 24 hours. In
addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous
discharge limits.
(Prior Code, § 54.027) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.028 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted
as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136,
unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
If 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, or where the USEPA determines that the pt. 136 sampling
and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question,
sampling and analyses shall be performed using validated analytical methods or
any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures
suggested by the Coordinator or other parties approved by USEPA.
   (B)   Analytical reports submitted to the village must comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   The practical quantification limit (POL) must be less than half of
the effluent limit for the pollutant being analyzed.
      (2)   The analysis method used, method detection limit (MDL) and the PQL
must be listed for each pollutant analyzed.
      (3)   Results which were not detected by the analysis must be reported as
“Not Detected,” or “ND,” or “<[MDL],” or equal.
      (4)   Results which were detected by the analysis at or above the MDL,
but the result was not quantifiable, must be reported as the concentration
detected and noted in the report as “Detected Not Quantifiable,” or “DNQ,” or
using an appropriate qualifier and footnote description.
      (5)   If a result is detected, it must be reported. Failure to report a
detected result constitutes significant noncompliance.
   (C)   As the Coordinator deems necessary, a user may be required to analyze
for one or more pollutants not listed in the local limits or pretreatment
standards to satisfy the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.028) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.029 PROTECTION OF VILLAGE SAMPLING AND FLOW METERING EQUIPMENT FROM
DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment that is
owned or contracted by the village. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 54.029) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025) Penalty, see § 54.999
§ 54.030 GREASE MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of
Romeoville Grease Management Ordinance.”
   (B)   Enactment. Pursuant to the requirements of Title II of the Clean Water
Act amendments and regulations promulgated thereunder; the State Environmental
Protection Act of 1970, as amended; and in accordance with the Illinois
Municipal Code, this chapter is hereby enacted by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Purpose and policy. This section establishes uniform maintenance and
monitoring requirements for controlling the discharge of grease from food
service facilities discharging into the village’s treatment works and for
regulation of grease haulers operating within the village limits. The
objectives of this section are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of excessive amounts of grease into
village’s treatment works;
      (2)   To prevent clogging or blocking of the village’s sewer lines due to
grease build-up causing sanitary sewer overflows onto streets into stormwater
systems or waterways and into residences and commercial buildings, resulting in
potential liability to the village;
      (3)   To prevent maintenance and odor problems at wastewater pumping
stations due to grease build-up;
      (4)   To implement a process to recover costs for any liability incurred
by the village for damage caused by grease blockages resulting in sanitary
sewer overflows;
      (5)   To establish fees for the recovery of costs resulting from the
program established herein;
      (6)   To register grease haulers operating within the village; and
      (7)   To establish enforcement procedures for violations of this section.
   (D)   Administration. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Pretreatment
Coordinator shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Pretreatment
Coordinator may be delegated by the Pretreatment Coordinator to other village
personnel or agents of the village.
   (E)   Applicability.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all food service
facilities discharging into the village’s treatment works and to all grease
haulers doing business within the village.
      (2)   Where there is a conflict between this section and the Illinois
Building Code - Plumbing, as amended (current edition), the Illinois Building
Code - Plumbing, as amended (current edition) shall be applicable.
      (3)   The village currently regulates the improper discharge of grease
into water or wastewater pursuant to the village’s Wastewater Discharge and
Industrial Pretreatment Standards Technical Manual, on file in the office of
the Village Clerk, which has the full force and effect of an ordinance pursuant
to this code and is incorporated herein by reference. Where there is a conflict
between this section and the village’s Wastewater Discharge and Industrial
Pretreatment Standards Technical Manual, this section shall be applicable.
   (F)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the Wastewater Department or their designee.
      FOOD SERVICE FACILITY or FACILITY. Any business or food service facility
which prepares and/or packages food or beverages for sale or consumption. This
does not apply to private residences. FOOD SERVICE FACILITIES may include, but
are not limited to, food courts, food manufacturers food packagers,
restaurants, grocery stores, bakeries, lounges, meat markets, hospitals,
hotels, nursing homes, churches, schools, cafeterias delicatessens, coffee
shops, concession stands and all other food service facilities not specifically
listed above.
      FOOD SERVICE FACILITY OWNER or OWNER. In the case of individual food
service facilities, the owner or proprietor of the food service facility. Where
the facility is a franchise operation, the owner of the franchise is the
responsible person or entity. Where the facility is owned by a partnership,
corporation or other type of business entity, the individual who is authorized
to legally act on behalf of the business entity under state law shall be the
responsible person. Where two or more food service facilities share a common
grease interceptor, the OWNER shall be the individual who owns or assumes
control of the grease interceptor or the property on which the grease
interceptor is located. OWNER shall also mean their duly authorized
representatives employees or agents.
      GMP INSPECTOR. A member of the staff of the village’s grease management
program, designated by the director to enforce the village’s grease management
ordinance.
      GRAY WATER. All liquid contained in a grease interceptor that lies below
the floating grease layer and above the food solids layer.
      GREASE. A material either liquid or solid, composed primarily of fats,
oils or grease from animal or vegetable sources.
      GREASE HAULER. A company who collects the contents of a grease
interceptor or trap and transports it to an approved recycling or disposal
facility.
      GREASE INTERCEPTOR. An interceptor whose rated flow exceeds 50 gpm or has
a minimum storage capacity of 750 gallons or more and is a device located
underground and outside of a facility. It is designed to collect, contain or
remove food wastes or grease from the wastewater while allowing the balance of
the liquid waste to discharge to the wastewater collection system by gravity.
      GREASE TRAP. An interceptor whose rated flow is 50 gpm or less and is a
device located inside a facility and/or under a sink designed to collect,
contain or remove food wastes and grease from the wastewater while allowing the
balance of the liquid waste to discharge to the wastewater collection system by
gravity.
      NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOV). A written notice informing a food service
facility owner or grease hauler that a violation of this section has occurred.
      REGISTERED HAULER. A grease hauler registered with the village in
accordance with this section who is authorized to perform inspection, cleaning
and grease disposal for food service facilities.
      SANITARY FACILITIES. Bathrooms, bathroom fixtures, bathroom groups, hand
sinks or other similar fixtures or facilities
      TREATMENT WORKS. Any part of the village’s wastewater system as defined
in § 26-117 of the Village of Romeoville Code.
   (G)   Facility inspections.
      (1)   Entry. Each facility shall allow the Pretreatment Coordinator or
their designee’s the right of entry upon real property for the purpose of
inspection, observation, records examination, measurement and sampling in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Inspections. The GMP inspector shall inspect food service
facilities on either an unannounced or scheduled basis to verify continued
compliance with the requirements of this section. The GMP inspector shall
inspect all grease traps or interceptors, plumbing connections, the logbook and
file, other pertinent data or take samples as necessary. The GMP inspector
shall record all observations in a written report. Any deficiencies shall be
noted, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Failure to properly maintain the grease interceptor or trap in
accordance with the provisions of this section;
         (b)   Failure to report changes in operations, or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Failure to maintain logs, files, records or access for
inspection or monitoring activities;
         (d)   Inability of existing grease interceptor or trap to prevent
discharge of grease into the village’s treatment works; and
         (e)   Any other inconsistency with or violation of this section.
      (3)   Re-inspections. The GMP inspector shall inspect any repairs,
replacements or other deficiencies and shall provide written notice of
compliance or noncompliance. In the event of continuing noncompliance, re-
inspections will be performed.
   (H)   Grease traps and interceptors.
      (1)   Permit required. Any food service facility that intends to erect,
install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any grease trap or
interceptor is required to make application to the Building Inspector and
obtain the required permit. The facility shall submit with its permit
application the appropriate design criteria in accordance with the Illinois
Building Code - Plumbing, as amended (current edition).
      (2)   Requirements. All food service facilities are required to have a
grease interceptor or trap properly installed in accordance with any and all
applicable requirements of the Illinois Building Code - Plumbing, as amended
(current edition).
         (a)   New facilities. On or after the effective date of this section,
food service facilities which are newly proposed or constructed, or existing
food service facilities which will be expanded or renovated to include a food
service facility, where such a food service facility did not previously exist,
shall be required to install a grease interceptor or trap according to the
requirements of the Illinois Building Code - Plumbing, as amended (current
edition), and to operate and maintain the grease interceptor or trap according
to the requirements contained in this section.
         (b)   Existing facilities.
            1.   Food service facilities existing prior to the date of this
section shall be permitted to operate and maintain existing grease interceptors
or traps; provided their grease interceptors or traps are in good operating
condition.
            2.   The village may require an existing facility to install a new
grease interceptor or trap that complies with the requirements of the Illinois
Building Code - Plumbing, as amended (current edition), or to modify or repair
any noncompliant plumbing or existing grease interceptor or trap when any one
or more of the following conditions exist:
               a.   The facility is found to be contributing grease in
quantities sufficient to cause line stoppages or necessitate increased
maintenance on the wastewater collection system;
               b.   Grease concentrations exceed four hundred (200) mg/l on
wastewater effluent as determined by sampling performed by the GMP inspector;
               c.   The facility does not have a grease interceptor or trap;
               d.   The facility has an irreparable or defective grease
interceptor or trap;
               e.   Remodeling of the food preparation or kitchen waste
plumbing system is performed which requires a plumbing permit to be issued by
the village;
               f.   The facility is sold or undergoes a change of ownership;
and
               g.   The facility does not have plumbing connections to a grease
interceptor or trap in compliance with the requirements of this section.
      (3)   Plumbing connections. Grease interceptors or traps shall be
installed in accordance with Illinois Building Code - Plumbing, as amended
(current edition). Wastewater from sanitary facilities shall not be introduced
into the grease interceptor or trap under any circumstances.
      (4)   Records maintenance. Each food service facility shall maintain a
bound logbook in which a record of all interceptor maintenance is entered.
Maintenance information shall include, but not be limited to, date and time of
the maintenance; estimated gallonage removed from interceptor or trap; any
defects in the grease interceptor or trap; details of any repairs required and
dates of repair completion; changes in operations or wastewater constituents
and characteristics; receipts from grease haulers, plumbers, parts suppliers
and the like; and any other records pertaining to the interceptor. This logbook
shall be made available for review upon request. Records shall be maintained
for a period of three years. Each facility shall provide, upon request of the
GMP inspector within ten days, drawings of sufficient detail to depict the
plumbing layout of the facility.
      (5)   Grease interceptors. Grease interceptors shall be designed and
installed in accordance with the Illinois Building Code - Plumbing, as amended
(current edition), and shall be operated and maintained as follows.
         (a)   Pumping and maintenance.
            1.   Each food service facility shall be responsible for the costs
of pumping, cleaning and maintaining its grease interceptor. All food service
facilities that have grease interceptors shall utilize a registered grease
hauler. Pumping services shall include the complete removal of all contents,
including floating materials, gray water, bottom sludge and solids from the
interceptor. Grease interceptor cleaning shall include scraping excessive
solids from the walls, floors, baffles and all piping.
            2.   It shall be the responsibility of the grease hauler to inspect
an interceptor during, or immediately after the pumping procedure to ensure
that the interceptor is clean and that all fittings and fixtures inside the
interceptor are in working condition and functioning properly. If the
interceptor is not functioning properly, the grease hauler shall notify the
owner in writing. The notice shall include a sufficient description of the
malfunction.
         (b)   Interceptor pumping frequency. Each food service facility shall
have its grease interceptor pumped according to the following criteria:
            1.   When the settled solids layer exceeds the invert of the outlet
pipe (typically eight inches in depth);
            2.   When the total volume of captured grease and solid material
displaces more than 25% of the capacity of the interceptor; or
            3.   When the interceptor is not retaining or capturing oils and
greases.
         (c)   Inspection. Grease interceptors shall be inspected by a GMP
inspector as necessary to assure compliance with this section.
         (d)   Disposal. Wastes removed from each grease interceptor shall be
disposed of at a facility permitted to receive such wastes. Grease, solid
materials or gray water removed from interceptors shall not be returned to any
grease interceptor, private sewer line or to any portion of the village’s
treatment works, except for food service facilities that use a two compartment
pump truck where the compartments are fully separate with their own valve
system, so there is no cross-contamination between the gray water with the
solids and grease. With this type of equipment, gray water may be reintroduced
back into the interceptor as long as the wastewater effluent grease
concentrations do not exceed 400 mg/l.
      (6)   Grease traps. Grease traps shall be installed in accordance with
the Illinois Building Code - Plumbing, as amended (current edition), and shall
meet the following criteria.
         (a)   Flow control device. Grease traps shall be equipped with a
device to control the rate of flow through the unit. The rate of flow shall not
exceed the manufacturers rated capacity recommended in gallons per minute for
the unit. Each food service facility is responsible for maintaining appropriate
flow control devices.
         (b)   Venting. The flow-control device and the grease trap shall be
vented in accordance with the Illinois Building Code - Plumbing, as amended
(current edition). The vent shall terminate not less than six inches above the
flood-rim level or in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. Each
food service facility is responsible for maintaining appropriate venting of the
grease trap.
         (c)   Cleaning and maintenance. Each food service facility shall be
solely responsible for the cost of grease trap cleaning and maintenance. Each
facility may contract with a registered grease hauler or it may develop a
written protocol and perform its own grease trap cleaning and maintenance
procedures. Cleaning and maintenance must be performed when the total volume of
captured grease and solid material displaces more than 25% of the total volume
of the grease trap. Each facility shall determine the frequency at which their
grease trap shall be cleaned, but all grease traps shall be opened, inspected,
cleaned and maintained at a minimum of once per week.
         (d)   Inspection. Grease traps shall be inspected by a GMP inspector
as necessary to assure compliance with this section and to assure proper
cleaning and maintenance is being performed.
         (e)   Disposal. Grease and solid materials removed from a grease trap
shall be removed by a registered grease hauler unless the grease is in a solid,
dry form, mixed with an oil absorbent in an enclosed bag or container and does
not exceed five pounds.
      (7)   Additives. Any chemicals, enzymes, emulsifiers, five bacteria or
other grease cutters or additives, used for the purpose of grease reduction,
shall be approved by the GMP inspector prior to their addition to grease
interceptors or traps. Applicable information concerning the composition,
frequency of use and mode of action of the proposed additive shall be sent to
the village together with a written statement outlining the proposed use of the
additive(s). The village may request a sampling port installed by the food
service facility at the facility’s expense to demonstrate the additive will
work. The village, upon evaluation of all of the information received, shall
permit or deny the use of the additive in writing. Permission to use additives
may be withdrawn by the village at any time.
      (8)   Alternative grease removal devices or technologies. Alternative
devices and technologies, such as automatic grease removal systems, shall be
subject to written permission by the Director prior to installation. Permission
to use the device shall be based on demonstrated and proven removal
efficiencies and reliability of operation. The village may permit these types
of devices depending on manufacturer’s specifications on a case-by-case basis.
The food service facility may be required to furnish analytical data
demonstrating grease removal effectiveness, or perform effluent monitoring.
Permission to use alternative devices and technologies may be withdrawn by the
village at any time.
   (I)   Grease interceptor and trap enforcement.
      (1)   Whenever the GMP inspector determines that a grease interceptor or
trap is in need of pumping, repairs, maintenance or replacement, enforcement
shall be as follows.
         (a)   Notice of violation (NOV). The GMP inspector conducting the
inspection shall immediately notify the food service facility owner that a
violation exists and issue the owner a NOV stating the nature of the violation.
         (b)   Inspection and re-inspection. If a grease interceptor or trap
has to be re-inspected because of deficiencies found during a previous
inspection, and all of the deficiencies have been corrected, there shall be no
charge for the re-inspection. If all of the deficiencies have not been
corrected, a re-inspection fee shall be charged to the food service facility.
         (c)   Sampling fees. Fees for any sampling and analysis of wastewater
discharges deemed necessary for the protection of the treatment works shall be
charged to the food service facility owner in the amount per sampling event.
         (d)   Pump-out and cleaning. A violation involving the lack of proper
cleaning and maintenance of a grease trap shall require the food service
facility owner to clean out the trap(s) within 24 hours of the NOV. If
interceptor pumping frequency is not being met, the owner shall be required to
have the interceptor pumped out within 72 hours of the NOV.
         (e)   Repairs and replacement. The food service facility owner shall
be responsible for the cost and scheduling of all repairs to or replacement of
its grease interceptor(s) or trap(s). Repairs and replacements required by a
GMP inspector shall be completed within a reasonable time as established in
written guidelines prepared by the director. The time for corrective action
shall commence on the date of receipt of the NOV. Written guidelines shall
include provisions for time extensions if the owner responds with an acceptable
plan for rectifying the situation.
         (f)   Noncompliance. If the food service facility owner continues to
violate the provisions set forth in this chapter, or fails to initiate or
complete corrective action in response to a NOV, or a village approved plan to
rectify a violation, the Director may pursue one or more of the following
options at the Director’s sole discretion:
            1.   Pump the grease interceptor and seek reimbursement of the
costs from the food service facility owner;
            2.   Assess further inspection fees as provided;
            3.   Terminate sanitary sewer service; and
            4.   Refer any violation by any food service facility or its owner
for enforcement for any or all applicable remedies
   (J)   Grease haulers.
      (1)   Grease hauler registration. Any person, firm or business desirous
of collecting, pumping or hauling grease interceptor or trap wastes from
businesses located within the village limits shall be required to register with
the village. It shall be unlawful for any grease hauler to clean or pump out
grease interceptors or traps within the village limits without being
registered. Registrations shall be effective for a period of three years. The
registration required by the village shall be in addition to any other permits,
registrations or occupational licenses required by federal, state and local
agencies having lawful jurisdiction. The registration is not transferable. The
Director shall issue stickers to all village registered grease haulers. The
stickers shall be displayed in a visible location on all vehicles used to clean
interceptors or traps.
         (a)   Application.
            1.   To register with the village, a grease hauler shall submit a
completed application form to the Director. The Director shall approve, deny or
approve with conditions all applications by written notice within 45 calendar
days of the village’s receipt of the completed application form. The grease
hauler shall be registered prior to providing grease hauling services within
the village limits.
            2.   The application shall require, but not be limited to, the
following information:
               a.   List of all trucks or vehicles used to clean interceptors
or traps, which include vehicle make, model, year, identification number,
color, tank capacity, proof of insurance and tag number;
               b.   List of all drivers or personnel used to clean interceptors
or traps, including proof of valid driver’s licenses; and
               c.   List of all disposal sites.
         (b)   Information update. Registered grease haulers shall update
application information annually from date of issuance of registration.
         (c)   Registration renewal. An application for registration renewal
shall be submitted on the appropriate renewal form at least 45 calendar days
prior to the expiration date of the existing registration by each applicant
wishing to provide grease hauling services in the village limits.
      (2)   Spill reporting. Any accident, spill or other discharge of grease,
solids or gray water, which occurs within the village shall be reported to the
Village Wastewater Department by the grease hauler as soon as possible but not
longer than 24 hours after the incident. The grease hauler shall comply with
all procedures and reporting requirements contained in federal, state and local
regulations. The grease hauler shall be responsible for all clean-up procedures
and costs.
      (3)   Record keeping. Grease haulers shall retain and make available for
inspection and copying, all records related to grease interceptor or trap
pumping and grease disposal. A village grease hauler manifest or approved form
shall be required to be signed by the grease hauler certifying the accuracy of
the information on the manifest. The manifest shall include, but not be limited
to, name, location, date and time of the facility serviced, estimated gallonage
removed from interceptor or trap, disposal times, dates, locations and amounts.
These records shall remain available for a period of at least three years. The
failure to provide information to the village within ten days of a written
request is a violation of this section.
      (4)   Vehicle inspection. Grease haulers shall permit the village to
inspect grease hauler’s registered vehicles
      (5)   Disposal. Wastes removed from each grease interceptor or trap shall
be disposed of at a grease disposal facility permitted to receive such wastes.
Grease, solid materials or gray water removed from interceptors or traps shall
not be returned to any grease interceptor, trap, private sewer line or to any
portion of the village’s treatment works, except for food service facilities
that use a two compartment pump truck where the compartments are fully separate
with their own valve system, so there is no cross-contamination between the
gray water with the solids and grease. With this type of equipment, gray water
may be re-introduced back into the interceptor as long as the wastewater
effluent grease concentrations do not exceed 400 mg/l.
      (6)   Grease hauler enforcement. Enforcement actions against grease
haulers in violation of this section shall be as follows.
         (a)   Notice of violation (NOV). A NOV will be issued to any grease
hauler who is found to be in non-compliance with this section. Response to this
NOV must be received by the village within ten calendar days of its receipt by
the grease hauler. The grease hauler will be required to describe how the
violation occurred, verification that the violation has been corrected and
shall provide assurance that steps will be taken to prevent the re-occurrence
of the violation.
         (b)   Registration revocation. Any registration issued pursuant to the
provisions of this section may be modified, suspended or revoked, in whole or
in part, during its term, for cause shown, including, but not limited to, any
one of the following:
            1.   Falsification of any information;
            2.   Discharging any grease, liquid or solid waste into a non-
authorized location; or
            3.   Failing to comply with this section.
   (K)   Fees. Fees associated with this section will be established pursuant
to the provisions of §
51.15.
   (L)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Search or inspection warrant. The Director, through the Village
Attorney, may seek to obtain a search or inspection warrant from the
appropriate authority to gain access to a facility for the purposes of
inspection and monitoring if such lawful entry under §
54.125.
      (2)   Referral to Code Enforcement Board. The Director may enforce the
violation of any provision of this section against an owner or grease hauler,
pursuant to and in the manner provided by §§
54.170 through
54.176,
54.190 through
54.194 and
54.205 through
54.209.
      (3)   Injunctive and other relief. The Mayor, through the Village
Attorney, may file a petition in the name of the village in the Circuit Court
of the county or such other courts as may have jurisdiction seeking the
issuance of an injunction, damages or other appropriate relief to enforce the
provisions of this section or other applicable law or regulation.
      (4)   Recovery of damages. When the discharge from a food service
facility causes an obstruction, damage or any other impairment to the treatment
works, or causes any expense, fine, penalty or damage of whatever character or
nature to the village, the Director shall invoice the owner for same incurred
by the village. If the invoice is not paid, the Director shall notify the
Village Attorney to take such actions as shall be appropriate to seek
reimbursement.
      (5)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this section
are not mutually exclusive. The Director may take any, all or any combination
of these actions against a noncompliant person.
      (6)   Appeal of revocation or denial of grease hauler registration. Any
revocation or denial of grease hauler registration may be appealed in
accordance with §§
54.170 through
54.176,
54.190 through
54.194 and
54.205 through
54.209. The appellate officer designated to hear these matters shall be the
administrator of public works and utilities services. The grease hauler shall
have 15 days from receipt of written notice of denial or revocation of the
registration to file an appeal. Failure of the grease hauler to file an appeal
within the 15-day time limit shall constitute acceptance of the decision to
deny or revoke the registration.
   (M)   Additional criminal offenses.
      (a)   Damage to village property. It is unlawful for any person to
maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage destroy, deface, tamper
with or remove any village property.
      (b)   Falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statements, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
section, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this section shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a penalty in an amount not to exceed $500, or by imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or by both. Each day on which a violation shall occur or
continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-20-2025)
**** PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER ****
§ 54.045 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any pretreatment facility(s) necessary for compliance shall be
provided and shall be properly maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the user at the user’s sole cost and expense. Detailed
plans and specifications describing such facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the Coordinator for review and approval prior to the
construction and operation of such facilities. The review of such plans and
specifications shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying such facilities as necessary to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   All users are required to comply with IEPA permitting requirements. A
user shall file an IEPA application for a construction-operating permit prior
to construction or significant modification of a pretreatment system that has
been signed-off by the village and obtain either a permit from the IEPA or a
letter indicating no permit is needed prior to the village connection and/or
wastewater discharge permit(s) being issued. No sources of non-residential
wastewater shall be discharged to the POTW until all permitting requirements
have been satisfied. All pretreatment facilities designated by the Coordinator
shall be under the control and direction of an IEPA-certified wastewater
operator even if the user is not issued an IEPA operating permit.
   (C)   Any subsequent proposed modification, alteration or change to the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be submitted to the
village and IEPA for review and approval prior to the user’s initiation of the
changes. Users shall obtain all necessary additional construction-operating
permits from IEPA and the village for the changes prior to making said
modification, alteration or change.
(Prior Code, § 54.040) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.046 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   The village may require the additional pretreatment measures set forth
below. The village reserves the right to make unannounced inspections of any
additional pretreatment measures during normal business hours whether or not
the user has been issued an individual or general wastewater discharge permit.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Pretreatment Coordinator may require
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that
certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial
waste streams and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW
and determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require any person discharging into
the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   The Coordinator may require a user discharging to the POTW to install
and maintain facilities to limit the amount of FOG and sand entering the POTW
through the procedures outlined in §
54.101.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
The Coordinator may require a user with the potential to discharge flammable
substances to the POTW to install and maintain, on its property and at its own
cost and expense, a combustible gas detection meter. This meter shall be
approved by the Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 54.041) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.047 SPILL PREVENTION CONTAMINANT AND COUNTER MEASURES PLAN/SLUG CONTROL.
   (A)   A user shall develop, implement and maintain a spill/slug control plan
(SSC plan) if the user has:
      (1)   Chemicals (raw materials, chemical intermediates, wastes to be
recycled, final products or utility chemicals) that total or exceed 250 gallons
or five 55-gallon drums at or on its site;
      (2)   Prohibited discharge materials as defined in §
54.007 at or on its site;
      (3)   Hazardous waste as defined in §
54.007 at or on its site; or
      (4)   Been defined by the Pretreatment Coordinator to have a need to
control slug discharges.
   (B)   Any user that meets the above criteria shall develop and implement a
SSC plan regardless of whether or not that user is regulated by a wastewater
discharge permit.
   (C)   The SSC plan which is required to be submitted to the village shall
address, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Specifics of SSC plan;
      (2)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (3)   Description of stored chemicals, including quantity, type and
number of storage containers;
      (4)   Site diagram showing location of all tanks holding greater than or
equal to 250 gallons or areas containing five 55-gallon drums or more of raw
materials, prohibited wastes, hazardous wastes, wastes to be recycled or final
product;
      (5)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures shall include, but are not limited to, routine
inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials
loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, measures
specific to slug discharge control, worker training, building of containment
structures or equipment, inventory of spill response equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants, including solvents, and measures and
equipment for emergency response. Building containment structures or production
equipment changes are considered procedures to prevent adverse spills. If
containment structures are connected to the POTW, a shut off valve is required
and shall be left in a closed position;
      (6)   Location of notice/signs posted in conspicuous places advising
employees in English, and the language of common use at the facility, whom to
call in the event of a spill, accidental discharge of prohibited materials,
slug discharge or a bypass of any part of a pretreatment system; and
      (7)   Emergency telephone number(s) (24-hour) off-site and backup
telephone number(s) and other contact information (e.g., address, email address
and the like) for responsible site staff. Once a SSC plan has been filed with
the village, any change in such information should be submitted within five
work days after revision.
   (D)   The SSC plan shall contain procedures for immediately notifying the
Pretreatment Coordinator of any accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
54.007.
   (E)   The SSC plan shall contain a sample of the documentation maintained at
the site that:
      (1)   Ensures that all employees who are in a position to cause, discover
or observe such discharge are advised of the emergency notification procedures
and the training is documented with the date and time of training and the
employee’s signature; and
      (2)   Verifies inspection and maintenance procedures to prevent adverse
impacts and confirm that said procedures are being performed on a regular
basis. At minimum, logs are required to verify valves in containment
structures, if present, are closed.
   (F)   The SSC plan shall be submitted to the Coordinator when the plan is
required in a wastewater discharge permit. Review of an SSC plan by the village
shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility or SSC plan as necessary to meet all requirements of this chapter
review by the village does not constitute an approval of the SSC plan and the
village and its duly authorized agent(s) are not responsible for the actions of
the user and any impacts the user may cause as a result of a spill or slug
load.
   (G)   At least once every two years the Coordinator shall require each SIU
(including CIUS) to evaluate the need to revise its SSC plan. The Coordinator
may require any user to submit, at a frequency less than two years, such SSC
plan or require modification of an existing SSC plan based on changes that have
occurred at the site or in response to an incident that had the potential to
impact the POTW.
   (H)   In alternate years, the Coordinator shall evaluate whether each NSRU
is required to file a revision to its SSC plan based on changes that have
occurred at the site or in response to an incident that had the potential to
impact the POTW.
   (I)   All SSC plans shall be implemented by the user whether or not they
have been reviewed by the village.
   (J)   (1)   Any user meeting the requirements of §
54.102 that decides to cease or terminate any operations which classify the
user as an SIU, for more than 90 days, must file a written closure plan with
the village. The closure plan shall be submitted ten work days prior to the
initiation of the plan and shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   A description of each wastewater generating process that will
cease operations for more than 90 consecutive days;
         (b)   A description of how the facility will be closed and the extent
of operations during the closure period;
         (c)   An inventory and estimate of the volume of an process wastewater
chemicals, and hazardous waste on-site. A description of the methods for
disposal, including procedures for removing, transporting, treating, storing or
disposing of all waste and identifying all off-site waste management facilities
to be used;
         (d)   A schedule of the closure activities indicating the time
required to complete each closure step; and
      (2)   A schedule of additional monitoring to identify compliance with
pretreatment standards during the closure operations.
(Prior Code, § 54.042) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION ****
§ 54.060 WASTEWATER INFORMATION AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   A user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of
its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The Pretreatment Coordinator is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
users to update this information. Consistent with §
54.021(B)(18), hauled waste is not permitted to be discharged.
   (B)   A user shall submit information on the nature and characteristics of
its wastewater within a minimum of 30 calendar days of a written request by the
Coordinator. Information shall be submitted on a form provided by the village.
The Pretreatment Coordinator may periodically require users to update
information on file with the village. Information that may be required will be
consistent with the information identified in this section.
   (C)   Users classified as CIUs shall complete and submit a baseline
monitoring report with a permit application and also comply with the other
requirements in this section.
(Prior Code, § 54.050) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.061 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the
Pretreatment Coordinator except that a significant industrial user that has
filed a timely application pursuant to this chapter may continue to discharge
for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require other users to obtain
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter. Any user subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards that
opts not to discharge said waste shall obtain a zero wastewater discharge
permit issued by the Pretreatment Coordinator. Other users that may be required
to obtain discharge permits, include, but are not limited to, non-categorical
zero process dischargers and restaurants. Holders of wastewater discharge
permits issued under this section shall not be classified as significant
industrial users.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subject the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
54.170 through
54.176,
54.190 through
54.194 and
54.205 through
54.209 . Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee
of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards
or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
(Prior Code, § 54.051) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.062 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any existing SIU, including CIU, required to obtain a wastewater
discharge permit that was discharging wastewater into the POTW, prior to the
effective date of this chapter and wishes to continue such discharges in the
future, shall, within 60 calendar days after said date, apply to the
Coordinator for the appropriate wastewater discharge permit in accordance with
§
54.020, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
120 calendar days of the effective date of this chapter except in accordance
with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the Coordinator.
   (B)   Any existing non-SIU required to obtain an individual or general
wastewater discharge permit shall file an application within the time period
specified in a notification provided by the Coordinator.
   (C)   FSE users shall submit information required by the village within the
timeframe specified by the Coordinator. FSE users complying with this
requirement will be deemed to have complied with the permit requirements during
the implementation of this program. The completed survey shall serve as the
wastewater discharge permit application for the FSE.
(Prior Code, § 54.052) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.063 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must
obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An
application for this wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with §
54.064, must be filed at least 90 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge or operations will begin or recommence pending review by the
Pretreatment Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 54.053) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.064 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit or
zero wastewater discharge permit must submit a permit application.
      (2)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require all users to submit as
part of an application the following information:
         (a)   All information required by §
54.102;
         (b)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
         (c)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
         (d)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
         (e)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation, all points of discharge and monitoring;
         (g)   Time and duration of discharges;
         (h)   Any non-CIU proposing to begin or recommence a discharge to the
POTW that is required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must obtain such
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge, or operations
in the case of a zero process wastewater discharge CIU, in accordance with §
54.061. An application for a wastewater discharge permit must be filed at least
60 calendar days prior to the date upon which any discharge or operations will
begin or recommence; and
         (i)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Pretreatment Coordinator to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit
application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Prior Code, § 54.054) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.065 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(Prior Code, § 54.055) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.066 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   (A)   The Pretreatment Coordinator will evaluate the data furnished by the
user and may require additional information. Within 30 days of receipt of a
complete wastewater discharge permit application, the Pretreatment Coordinator
will determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may deny any application for a wastewater discharge
permit that does not comply in any way with the provisions of this chapter,
other applicable ordinances of the village, applicable state or federal law, or
that cannot be granted without unreasonably threatening, harming, interfering
with, endangering or adversely affecting the POTW, the ability of the POTW to
operate in a legally compliant manner, the safety and health of POTW workers or
the general public or the quality of the water body receiving POTW effluent.
Additionally, an application may also be denied by the Pretreatment Coordinator
whenever the applicant therefor is delinquent or in default in the payment of
any fee, tax or other sum of money owed to the village, or in the performance
of any obligation whatsoever owed to the village.
   (B)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different person or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the user, a new written authorization satisfying the requirements
of this section must be submitted to the Coordinator within 30 calendar days of
the change.
(Prior Code, § 54.056) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS ****
§ 54.080 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at the
discretion of the Pretreatment Coordinator. Each wastewater discharge permit
will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Prior Code, § 54.065) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.081 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Pretreatment Coordinator to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the village in accordance with §
54.084, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Requirements for the development and implementation of a SSC plan
or other special conditions including best management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or non-routine discharges;
      (5)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
recordkeeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law; and
      (6)   A statement of applicable civil penalties for violation of
pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable federal, state or local law.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements that allow the use of bypass of the pretreatment
system conditions consistent with 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.17 and §
54.221;
      (4)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
prevention containment and countermeasures/slug control plan or other special
conditions, including management practices necessary to adequately prevent
accidental, unanticipated or non-routine discharges;
      (5)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Development and implementation of best management practices plans
to reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (7)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (8)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (9)   Requirements for the zero discharge of process waste regulated by a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard or local standard;
      (10)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Pretreatment
Coordinator to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws,
rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 54.066) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.082 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPEALS.
   The Pretreatment Coordinator shall provide public notice of the issuance of
a wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the user, may petition the
Pretreatment Coordinator to appeal the issuance of or the terms of a wastewater
discharge permit within 30 days of notice of its issuance, in accordance with
the provisions of §
41.20.
(Prior Code, § 54.067) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.083 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Pretreatment Coordinator may modify a wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address substantial alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the village’s POTW, village personnel or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or condition of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of either the facility ownership or operation to
either a new owner or operator.
(Prior Code, § 54.068) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.084 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall not be transferred, assigned or
sold to a new owner or new user in different premises or to a new or different
operation in the same or different premises without the expressed written
approval of the village. If the premises sold or otherwise transferred by the
permittee to a new owner who will maintain the operation in the same premises,
whether or not the seller will continue to operate the equipment or the
equipment is leased to another entity for its operation at the site of the
original permittee, then the permit held by the seller and/or owner shall be
reissued by the village to the new owner and/or operator as a temporary permit;
provided:
      (1)   The new owner and/or operator notified the village 30 calendar days
in advance of the transaction;
      (2)   The new owner and/or operator confirmed to the village, within 24
business hours of the transaction, of completion of the date of sale or
execution of an operating contract; and
      (3)   The new owner and/or operator shall immediately apply for a new
permit in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Failure to provide the sale/transfer notification defined in division
(A) above renders the wastewater permit void as of said sale/transfer date. It
is further provided that the temporary permit shall only be effective for 90
days after the date of sale or transfer. The village shall have the same
remedies for violation of temporary permits as it has for violation of other
discharge permits.
(Prior Code, § 54.069) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.085 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may revoke a wastewater discharge permit
for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Pretreatment Coordinator of substantial
changes to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Pretreatment
Coordinator of changed conditions pursuant to §
54.105;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Pretreatment Coordinator timely access to the
facility premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business or
operation ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business or operation ownership.
      (2)   All wastewater discharge permits issued to a particular user are
void upon the issuance of a new wastewater discharge permit to that user.
(Prior Code, § 54.070) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.086 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete wastewater
discharge permit application, in accordance with §
54.081, a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
wastewater discharge permit.
(Prior Code, § 54.071) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.087 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the village shall enter into an
intergovernmental agreement with the contributing municipality.
   (B)   The village shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality at a frequency determined by the village:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharge to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Pretreatment Coordinator may deem
necessary.
   (C)   An intergovernmental agreement, as required by division (A) above,
shall contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance that is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits
that are at least as stringent as those set out in §
54.024 for the area to be served by the village. The requirement shall specify
that such ordinance and limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes
made to the village’s ordinance or local limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying that pretreatment implementation activities,
including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and sampling and
enforcement, will be conducted by the Pretreatment Coordinator;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Pretreatment Coordinator with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the contributing
municipality’s wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality’s
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Pretreatment Coordinator access to the
facilities of users located within the contributing municipality’s
jurisdictional boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling and any other
duties deemed necessary by the Pretreatment Coordinator; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
(Prior Code, § 54.072) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 54.100 REPORTS.
   Each user of the treatment works and facilities of the village shall provide
reports as necessary to comply with this chapter and any wastewater discharge
permit. Reporting requirements may apply to users that are not required to
obtain a wastewater discharge permit.
(Prior Code, § 54.080) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.101 PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   Should the village find that a user, not subject to National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards, does not meet pretreatment standards and requirements
applicable to its discharge; causes or contributes to a sewage treatment plant
upset; or when analysis of waste or observation of the effect of such wastes on
the POTW indicate that said wastes cannot be treated satisfactorily at such
works, or that said wastes are injurious to the POTW, or to the treatment
processes, or pollute the natural waters within the village, its service areas
or the waters of the state. Additional pretreatment and/or operation and
maintenance (hereinafter sometimes “O&M”) will be required by the village to
meet pretreatment standards and requirements. Such facilities as the village
may deem necessary for pretreatment of the wastes shall be furnished by and at
the expense of the user as a condition of the discharge of said wastes into the
POTW or to any natural water within the village service area.
   (A)   Pretreatment review. The Pretreatment Coordinator will require the
user to initiate a pretreatment review through a telephone call, letter or
certified letter to the authorized representative of the user.
   (B)   Pretreatment initiation meeting. A pretreatment initiation meeting
will be held between the Pretreatment Coordinator and the user to discuss the
problem and the solution to said problem. If it determined that changes in
operation and maintenance, plant modifications and/or the installation of
pretreatment equipment shall occur to resolve noncompliance, a schedule shall
be established with events and completion deadlines agreeable to both parties
to resolve the noncompliance. A compliance agreement defining the agreed upon
schedule will be sent from the village to the user shortly after the meeting.
If a schedule for compliance acceptable to the Pretreatment Coordinator cannot
be established, the matter will be referred for further enforcement action
consistent with the provisions of §§
54.170 through 1
54.175 as appropriate.
   (C)   Progress reports. Progress reports will be filed by the user on a
schedule agreed to by the Pretreatment Coordinator and the user concerning the
completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the applicable
pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to, hiring an
engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts for major
components, commencing and completing construction and beginning and conducting
routine operation). The user shall identify whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
   (D)   Final report. A final report will be filed with the Pretreatment
Coordinator by the user within 90 days from the end of the schedule deadline to
verify the success or failure or the schedule objective chosen by the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.081) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.102 PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   In the event that either the village or a user determines that the user is
regulated as a categorical industrial user by standards and requirements
promulgated by the USEPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act, being
33 U.S.C. § 1317(b) and (c), the following reports are required to be filed by
the user.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports.
      (1)   (a)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a
categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a
category determination under 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later,
existing categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to
discharge to the POTW shall submit to the Pretreatment Coordinator a report
which contains the information listed below.
         (b)   At least 90 days prior to commencement of their discharge, new
sources and sources that become categorical industrial users subsequent to the
promulgation of an applicable categorical standard shall submit to the
Pretreatment Coordinator a report which contains the information listed below.
         (c)   A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends
to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
         (a)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility;
         (c)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram that indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
         (d)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(e);
         (e)   Measurements of pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Pretreatment Coordinator, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each
regulated process. Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be
representative of daily operations and sampling must be performed in accordance
with procedures set out in §
54.027 and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
54.028.
         (f)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or pretreatment is
required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
         (g)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this section must meet the requirements set out in division (B)(1) below; and
         (h)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with §
54.065.
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following condition shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by division (A)(2)(g) above.
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Pretreatment
Coordinator no later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date of compliance, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied
with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate,
the steps being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Pretreatment Coordinator a report containing the information described in
division (B)(1) above. For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(c),
this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
54.065.
(Prior Code, § 54.082) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.103 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS/SELF-MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Significant non-categorical industrial users. Significant non-
categorical industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by the
Pretreatment Coordinator but in no case less than twice per year (on dates
specified by the village) submit a report with a description of the nature,
concentration and flow of the pollutants required to be reported by the
village. These reports shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in the
period covered by the report, and performed in accordance with the techniques
described in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 and amendments thereto. This sampling and
analysis may be performed by the village in lieu of significant non-categorical
industrial user. Where the village itself collects all the information required
for the report, the significant non-categorical industrial user will not be
required to submit the report.
   (B)   Categorical industrial users.
      (1)   All categorical industrial users shall, at a frequency determined
by the Pretreatment Coordinator but in no case less than twice per year (in
July and January), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
At the discretion of the village and in consideration of such factors as local
high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like, the village may
agree to alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
54.065.
      (2)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (3)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Pretreatment
Coordinator, using the procedures prescribed in §§
54.027 and
54.028, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
      (4)   Where the village has imposed mass limitations on users as provided
for by 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(d), the report required by division (A) above shall
indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by the pretreatment standards in the
discharge from the industrial user.
      (5)   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established by the village in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. pt.
403.6(c), the report required by division (A) above shall contain a reasonable
measure of the user’s long-term production rate. For all other users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards expressed only in terms of allowable
pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), the
report required by division (A) above shall include the user’s actual average
production rate for the reporting period.
(Prior Code, § 54.083) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.104 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Pretreatment Coordinator of any planned
substantial changes to the user’s operations or system that might alter the
nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change
that results of an increase or addition. Shutdowns or deletions of products are
required to be noticed within seven calendar days of determination.
   (A)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require the user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
54.064.
   (B)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may issue a wastewater discharge permit
under §
54.066 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
54.064 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, substantial changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, the addition or deletion of a
shift, the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants, the addition of a
new process regardless of waste discharge of lack of discharge, shutdown of a
process or addition or deletion of a product.
(Prior Code, § 54.084) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.105 AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE CHANGE NOTIFICATION.
   Any user that changes the authorized representative of its company, as
defined in §
54.007, shall file a change notice with the village within 30 calendar days.
(Prior Code, § 54.085) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.106 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   Initial accidental discharge notification. In the case of any
discharge, including, but not limited to, accidental discharges, discharges of
a non-routine, episodic nature, a noncustomary batch discharge or a slug load,
that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately
telephone and notify the Pretreatment Coordinator of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge; type of waste;
concentration and volume, if known; and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Written accidental discharge notification. Within five days following
such discharge, the user shall, unless waived by the Pretreatment Coordinator,
submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and
the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences.
Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage or
other liability that may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural
resources or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such
notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties or other liability that
may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Notice. A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin
board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of
a discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(Prior Code, § 54.086) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.107 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the Pretreatment Coordinator as required.
(Prior Code, § 54.087) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.108 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Pretreatment Coordinator within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Pretreatment Coordinator within 30 days
after becoming aware of the violation. The user is not required to resample if
the Pretreatment Coordinator monitors at the user’s facility at least once a
month, or if the Pretreatment Coordinator samples between the user’s initial
sampling and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
(Prior Code, § 54.088) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.109 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.12(P), any user who commences the
discharge of hazardous waste shall notify the POTW, the USEPA Regional Waste
Management Division Director and state hazardous waste authorities, in writing,
of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of,
would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. pt. 261. Such notification must
include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. pt. 261, the
EPA hazardous waste number and the type of discharge (continuous, batch or
other). If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per
calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain the following
information to the extent such information is known and readily available to
the user: an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
waste stream discharged during that calendar month and an estimation of the
mass of constituents in the waste stream expected to be discharged during the
following 12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days
after the discharge commences. Any notification under this section need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under §
54.104. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
54.102(A), 54.102(C) and 54.103.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. pts. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. pts. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
      (1)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the Pretreatment
Coordinator, the USEPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90
days of the effective date of such regulations.
      (2)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (3)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder or any applicable federal or state law.
(Prior Code, § 54.089) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.110 REPORT SUBMITTAL DUE DATES.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports that are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern. In order to meet deadlines, reports may be faxed on
the due date to the village. The original of the fax is required to be mailed
to the village postmarked within 24 hours of the fax.
(Prior Code, § 54.090) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.111 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method and time of sampling and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the village, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Pretreatment
Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 54.091) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** COMPLIANCE MONITORING ****
§ 54.125 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Pretreatment Coordinator shall have the right to enter the premises of
any user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of
this chapter and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder.
Users shall allow the Pretreatment Coordinator ready access to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, observation, sampling, records
examination and copying and the performance of any additional duties.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Pretreatment Coordinator will be permitted to
enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The village shall have the right to set up on the user’s property, or
require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the user’s operations.
   (C)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require the user to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the user at its own expense. All devices used to measure
wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated twice yearly (at six-month
intervals) to ensure their accuracy. The user shall submit these calibration
reports semiannually to the village with the periodic compliance reports
required in §
54.103.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Pretreatment Coordinator and shall not
be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, property owners may decline to allow
entry to premises not subject to a public utility easement in favor of the
village, but in such a case the village shall have the right to apply for an
administrative search warrant for the premises.
(Prior Code, § 54.100) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.126 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Pretreatment Coordinator has been refused access to a building,
structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable
cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there
is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or order
issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare
of the community, then the Pretreatment Coordinator may seek issuance of a
search warrant from the Circuit Court of the county.
(Prior Code, § 54.101) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION ****
§ 54.140 CONFIDENTIAL AND PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and
monitoring programs, and the Pretreatment Coordinator inspection and sampling
activities shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Pretreatment Coordinator and Village Attorney, that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable state law.
   (B)   Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data. When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a
report that such information should be held confidential, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately
upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report.
   (C)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other “effluent data,”
as defined by 40 C.F.R., will not be recognized as confidential information and
will be available to the public without restriction.
(Prior Code, § 54.110) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE ****
§ 54.155 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Pretreatment Coordinator shall publish annually, in the largest
daily newspaper published in the municipality where the POTW is located, a list
of the users that, during the previous 12 months, were in significant
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the same pollutant
parameter by any amount;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except
pH);
      (3)   Any other discharge violation that the Pretreatment Coordinator
believes has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through, including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Pretreatment
Coordinator exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction or attaining final
compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s) that the Pretreatment Coordinator determines
will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(Prior Code, § 54.120) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES ****
§ 54.170 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may serve upon that user a written
notice of violation. Within ten days of the receipt of this notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Pretreatment Coordinator. Submission of this plan in no way
relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the Pretreatment Coordinator to take any action, including
emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a
notice of violation.
(Prior Code, § 54.130) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.171 COMPLIANCE AGREEMENTS.
   The Pretreatment Coordinator may enter into compliance agreements,
assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will
include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance
within a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the
same force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
54.173 and
54.174 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Prior Code, § 54.131) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.172 SHOW CAUSE ORDER.
   The Pretreatment Coordinator may order a user which has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the representatives of the village and show cause
why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action and a request that the user
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least 14 days prior to the hearing. Such notice
may be served on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause
hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.132) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.173 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance
within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the
time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.133) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.174 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may issue an order to the user directing it to cease
and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.134) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.175 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may immediately suspend a user’s
discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to
present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The Pretreatment Coordinator may also immediately suspend a
user’s discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may take such steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the POTW, its receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may allow the user to recommence its discharge when
the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Pretreatment Coordinator
that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings
in §
54.176 are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Pretreatment Coordinator prior to the
date of any show cause or termination hearing under §§
54.172 or
54.176.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Prior Code, § 54.135) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.176 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   In addition to the provisions in §
54.085, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
   (A)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
   (B)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   (C)   Failure to report substantial changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
   (D)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
   (E)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
54.020 through
54.029. Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge
and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
54.172 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Pretreatment Coordinator shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.136) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** PENALTIES AND JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES ****
§ 54.190 FAILURE TO REPORT OR NOTIFY.
   (A)   Reports or notifications required by non-significant industrial users.
Any non-significant industrial user who fails to file any report of
notification so required by this chapter shall be subject to the following late
filing fees.
      (1)   Filing fees.
         (a)   Recurring reporting violations: $100;
         (b)   NOV response noncompliance: $250; and
         (c)   Cost per additional day past final request deadline: $50.
      (2)   Substantial changes. No written notification of substantial changes
whether discharged or not:
         (a)   At start-up or shutdown: $500; and
         (b)   Per each additional 15 days in excess of 30 calendar days: $100.
   (B)   Reports or notifications required by significant industrial users. Any
significant industrial user who fails to file any report of notification so
required by this chapter shall be subject to the following late filing fees.
      (1)   Filing fees.
         (a)   Recurring reporting violations: $250;
         (b)   NOV response noncompliance: $500; and
         (c)   Cost per additional day past final request deadline: $100.
      (2)   Substantial changes. No written notification of substantial changes
whether discharged or not:
         (a)   At start-up or shutdown: $1,000; and
         (b)   Per each additional 15 days in excess of 30 calendar days: $200.
   (C)   Notification specific to industrial users with permits.
      (1)   No written notification of change in ownership and/or operation of
facility, or any portion thereof: $1,000.
      (2)   Subsequent submittal of a deficient or incomplete report that still
lacks critical information shall be assessed penalties at the above rates.
(Prior Code, § 54.145) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.191 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may petition the Circuit Court of the
county through the Village Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or
permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific
performance of the wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement
imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The Pretreatment Coordinator
may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable
relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Prior Code, § 54.146) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.192 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, the sewer use ordinance (Chapter 52), a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement shall be liable to the village for a maximum civil penalty of not
more than $1,000 per violation, per day. In the case of a monthly or other
long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during
the period of the violation.
   (B)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees,
court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by the village.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (E)   The village may pursue the imposition of civil penalties in an action
filed with the Circuit Court of the 12th Judicial Circuit of the county,
together with such other and further relief as the village may be entitled to
under this chapter or other applicable law. In addition, the village shall also
have the right to pursue such penalties and any other relief to which it may be
entitled by means of initiating appropriate proceedings before the village’s
administrative hearing officer pursuant to Chapter 41.
(Prior Code, § 54.147) (Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-20-2025)
§ 54.193 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may take any, all or any combination of these actions
against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will
generally be in accordance with the village’s enforcement response plan.
However, the Pretreatment Coordinator may take other action against any user
when the circumstances warrant. Further, the Pretreatment Coordinator is
empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant
user.
(Prior Code, § 54.148) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.149 SANCTIONS ATTACH TO PROPERTY.
   The order to correct a violation of this chapter and the sanctions imposed
by the village as the results of a finding of an ordinance violation shall
attach to the property as well as to the owner of the property, so that a
finding of an ordinance violation against one owner cannot be avoided by
conveying or transferring the property to another owner. Any subsequent
transferee or owner of property shall take such property subject to the
findings, decision and order of a hearing officer hereunder; provided, however,
that it shall be the responsibility of the village to record a memorandum of
such findings, decision and order with the County Recorder.
(Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-20-2025)
**** SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION ****
§ 54.205 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Pretreatment Coordinator may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater
discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, a previous wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless such user first files
a satisfactory bond, payable to the village, in a sum not to exceed a value
determined by the Pretreatment Coordinator to be necessary to achieve
consistent compliance.
(Prior Code, § 54.160) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.206 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Pretreatment Coordinator may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater
discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, a previous wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the user first
submits proof that it has obtained liability insurance acceptable to the
village and naming the village as additional insured to restore or repair
damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
(Prior Code, § 54.161) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.207 WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to the user may be severed.
Service will only recommence, at the user’s expense, after it has
satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply and secured the same as
hereinabove provided.
(Prior Code, § 54.162) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.208 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit
or order issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement is
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
Pretreatment Coordinator. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be
subject to the provisions governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the
village for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying said nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 54.163) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.209 CONTRACTOR LISTING.
   Users that have not achieved compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements are declared to be non-responsible users and,
therefore, are not eligible to receive a contractual award for the sale of
goods or services to the village. Existing contracts for the sale of goods or
services to the village held by a user found to be in significant noncompliance
with pretreatment standards or requirements may be terminated at the discretion
of the Pretreatment Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 54.164) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS ****
§ 54.220 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C)(3) below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and well
crafted manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Pretreatment Coordinator within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if
this information is provided orally, a written report must be provided within
five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times,
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(Prior Code, § 54.170) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.221 BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Pretreatment Coordinator, at least ten days before
the date of the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Pretreatment Coordinator of
an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
24 hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of
the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and
if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Pretreatment Coordinator may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24
hours.
   (D)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Pretreatment Coordinator may take
an enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) above.
      (2)   The Pretreatment Coordinator may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the Pretreatment Coordinator
determines that it will meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1)
above.
(Prior Code, § 54.171) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
**** MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ****
§ 54.235 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The village may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting
up and operating the village’s pretreatment program that may include:
   (A)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   (B)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (C)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (D)   Other fees as the village may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the village.
(Prior Code, § 54.180) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
§ 54.236 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be effected and shall continue
in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 54.181) (Ord. 04-0108, passed 1-21-2004; Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-
20-2025)
APPENDIX A: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
 
   This document represents the Enforcement Response Plan (ERP) of the village
of Romeoville for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the village’s
Pretreatment Ordinance in conformance with the requirements found in 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.8(f)(5).
   The ERP has been developed to include a range of enforcement responses
available to the village to effectively enforce the terms and conditions of the
chapter. The plan outlines how the village will investigate and respond to
instances of industrial user (IU) noncompliance (including significant
industrial users). The ERP establishes a framework in which the village will
assess the degree of noncompliance by an IU and determine the appropriate
enforcement response. Considerations will include federal, state and local
pretreatment regulations, historical IU cooperation, the nature of the
violation and any potential hazards to the public, village employees and the
environment.
   The plan includes the type of escalating enforcement responses to be used by
the village, the periods within which responses will take place and the
officials responsible for each type of response. The ERP does not restrict the
village to only the options listed. If the nature of the violation requires it,
the village can, and will, pursue more severe penalties, including fines,
revocation of Discharge Permits and/or disconnection of service. Repeated
violations, which are not eliminated by one level of response, will receive
more severe penalties.
TYPES OF ENFORCEMENT RESPONSES
   IUs found in noncompliance with any of the terms or conditions of the
Pretreatment Ordinance are subject to enforcement under the ERP.
   The following types of enforcement responses are available to the village in
response to incidents of noncompliance with the Pretreatment Ordinance.
   A.   Phone notification.
   A phone/fax notification is intended to inform the IU of a violation or
potential violation, so that voluntary actions by the Industry can resolve the
situation preventing more serious violations. The phone/fax notification should
be made by the Pretreatment Coordinator as soon as the violation is discovered.
   B.   Notice of violation (NOV).
   A NOV is a written notification sent via Certified Mail - Return Receipt
Requested, which is directed to an authorized agent of an IU found to be in
noncompliance of the conditions of the Pretreatment Ordinance or the IU’s
Permit. The NOV advises the IU of the nature of the noncompliance, requires the
IU to investigate the incident and take measures to correct the noncompliance
and to respond to the NOV within 10 days of receipt of the NOV. The NOV should
be issued by the Superintendent and/or designee within 30 days of discovery of
the noncompliance.
   C.   Compliance meeting.
   A compliance meeting is a meeting attended by the Pretreatment Coordinator,
and/or other village staff and an authorized agent of an IU found to be in
continued noncompliance with the conditions of the Chapter. The meeting will be
used to advise the IU of their continued noncompliance, to establish a
timetable required to correct the noncompliance and to report the next step of
enforcement if noncompliance continues. The meeting should be held within 30
days of the village determination that a meeting is required.
   D.   Compliance Order (C.O.).
   A C.O. is a written notification, sent via Certified Mail - Return Receipt
Requested, which is directed to an authorized agent of an IU which has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of the Ordinance, Discharge
Permit, or order issued to the IU. The compliance order, issued by the
Superintendent and/or designee, shall direct the noncompliant IU to come into
compliance within a specified time. The compliance order shall be issued within
30 days of the village determination that a compliance order is necessary.
   E.   Compliance Agreement (C.A.).
   A C.A. is a written agreement between the village and IU which has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of the Ordinance, Discharge Permit or
order issued to the IU. The C.A. includes timeframes; agreed to by both parties
within which the IU will come into compliance as well as penalties, which will
be incurred by the IU for failure to meet compliance commitment dates.
   F.   Show cause order.
   An order requiring attendance at a show cause hearing before representatives
of the village by an authorized agent of an IU which has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of the Ordinance, Discharge Permit, or order issued
to the IU to show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall specify the time and place for the
meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action and a
request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notification as to the nature of the hearing shall be served
personally or by Certified Mail - Return Receipt Requested, at least 30 days
prior to the hearing.
   G.   Administrative fines.
   Administrative fines shall be assessed when an IU has violated, or continues
to violate any provision of the Ordinance, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued to the IU. The fines shall be assessed in accordance with the
Pretreatment Ordinance. Fines will be assessed within 60 days of the village
determination that fines are appropriate. Fines shall be assessed in accordance
with the seriousness of the violations as determined by the Pretreatment
Coordinator.
   H.   Court Proceedings.
   Any activity or conduct of an IU, which has violated or continues to violate
any provision of the Ordinance, Discharge Permit, or prior order, may be
referred to the village Attorney for court proceedings or administrative
adjudication actions under Chapter 41 of the Village Code of Ordinances. These
proceedings are outlined in the Pretreatment Ordinance.
   I.   Termination of service.
   The Pretreatment Coordinator may immediately suspend a user’s discharge,
after informal or formal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears
to present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The Pretreatment Coordinator may also immediately suspend
an IU’s Discharge Permit, after notice and opportunity to respond, that
threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or
may present, an endangerment to the environment. Termination of services are
outlined in the Pretreatment Ordinance.
   COMPLIANCE SCREENING/REVIEW
   All IU self-monitoring reports generated by the IUs or reports generated
during or by inspection and sampling conducted by the village will be reviewed
by the Pretreatment Coordinator for incidents of noncompliance with applicable
standards. Reports will be reviewed and enforcement actions will be taken in
response to any incidents of noncompliance in accordance with the following
schedule.
   A.   IU self-monitoring reports.
   All IU self-monitoring reports will be reviewed within 30 days of receipt of
said self-monitoring report. Enforcement action will be initiated within the
same 30-day period, if required.
   B.   Village Inspection and Sampling Reports.
   In conformance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2), the village will inspect and
sample each IU, which meets the Significant Industrial user definition at least
annually. Sample collection and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
40 C.F.R. pt. 136.
   All village inspection and sampling reports will be reviewed within 30 days
of the completion of said village inspection or sampling program at an IU.
Enforcement action will be initiated within the same 30-day period, if
required.
   C.   Enforcement Actions by Superintendent and/or designee.
   All enforcement responses which require action by the Attorney will be
recommended to the Attorney by the Pretreatment Coordinator within the time
periods indicated in Paragraphs A and B above; however, failure to meet the
deadlines will not preclude the village from proceeding with the enforcement
actions. The Attorney will take action on all recommendations from the
Pretreatment Coordinator in a timely manner.
PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
   The village shall annually publish in the largest newspaper published in the
village or municipalities where the village has jurisdiction, a list of IUs
which, during the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards. The notification shall also summarize any
enforcement actions taken against those IUs during the same 12 months. The term
significant noncompliance shall mean:
   A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of the wastewater measurements taken during a six-
month period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the same
pollutant parameter by any amount;
   B.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily maximum
limit or average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS,
FOG and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH (for pH, the TRC will be less
than 4.0 pH units or greater than 10 pH units);
   C.   Any other discharge violation that the village believes has caused
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference, or pass-through
(including endangering the health of village personnel or the general public);
   D.   Any discharge of a pollutant, which has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the village’s exercise of
its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit, enforcement order, or
agreement for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining
final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, periodic self-monitoring
reports and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation(s), which the village determines, will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF PRETREATMENT ORDERS
   A.   Introduction.
   Any IU issued an order or notice by any authorized employee of the village
under this Enforcement Response Plan or the Pretreatment Ordinance of the
village based in whole or in part upon noncompliance by the IU with any
provision of the Pretreatment Ordinance that fails to voluntarily comply with
such order or notice in accordance with its terms may, at the discretion of the
village, be prosecuted for the underlying violation of the Pretreatment
Ordinance in accordance with the Pretreatment Ordinance Administrative
Enforcement Procedures hereinafter set forth. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the village shall retain complete discretion to determine whether or not a
matter should be designated for administrative enforcement or should be the
subject of an appropriate legal or equitable proceeding in the Circuit Court
for the Twelfth Judicial Circuit, Will County, Illinois.
   B.   Pretreatment ordinance administrative enforcement procedures.
   The Village shall administratively enforce orders and notices issued under
this Chapter in general conformity with the hearing procedures established in
Chapter 41 of the Village Code of Ordinances.
ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
   The Enforcement Response Plan hereinafter set forth shall serve as a general
guideline for the Village’s enforcement actions in response to violations of
this Chapter, provided, however, that the Village shall not be strictly bound
by the hierarchy of enforcement actions set forth in the Enforcement Response
Plan, but may utilize such methods and means of enforcement as may be provided
for in this Chapter as and when necessary to respond to a particular violation
SAMPLING, MONITORING, AND REPORTING
NONCOMPLIANCE CIRCUMSTANCES ENFORCEMENT RESPONSES
SAMPLING, MONITORING, AND REPORTING
NONCOMPLIANCE             CIRCUMSTANCES              ENFORCEMENT RESPONSES
                          IU unaware of requirement  - Phone call/Fax
Unpermitted discharge     (no harm) to POTW/         - NOV w/fines and
                          environment                application form
                          IU unaware of requirement  - Compliance Order w/
                         (results in harm) to POTW/ fines; Administrative
                          environment                Adjudication
                                                     - Civil Action
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                          Failure to apply after     Administrative
                         notice by POTW             Adjudication
                                                     - Civil Action
                                                     - Terminate service
                          IU has not renewed         - Phone call/Fax
Nonpermitted discharge    discharge permit with 30   - NOV; Administrative
                          days of due date           Adjudication
Failure to conduct self-                             - Phone call/Fax
monitoring and to submit  Isolated occurrence        - NOV; Administrative
periodic reports by due                              Adjudication
date
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                          Repeated occurrence,       Adjudication
                         failure to comply with NOV - Compliance Meeting
                                                     - Compliance Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                          Report is improperly       - Phone call/Fax
Reporting violation       signed or certified        - NOV; Administrative
                          (Isolated occurrence)      Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Meeting
                          Repeated occurrence,       - Compliance Order;
                         failure to comply with NOV Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Agreement
                                                     - Show Cause Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                          Report is late, Isolated   - Phone call/Fax
                         occurrence or not          - NOV; Administrative
                          significant (e.g., 5 days  Adjudication
                          late)
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                          Repeated occurrence or     - Compliance Order;
                         significant (e.g., report  Administrative
                          30 days or more late)      Adjudication
                                                     - Show Cause Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Civil Action
                          Failure to report spill or - Compliance Order fines;
                         changed discharge (results Administrative
                          in harm)                   Adjudication
                                                     - Civil Action
                                                     - Show Cause Order w/
                         Repeated failure to report fines; Administrative
                          spills                     Adjudication
                                                     - Terminate service
                          Failure to report spill or - NOV w/fines;
                         changed discharge (no harm Administrative
                          to POTW/environment)       Adjudication
                                                     - Criminal Investigation
                         Falsification              - Compliance Agreement
                                                     - Terminate service
Failure to monitor        Failure to monitor all     - Phone call/Fax
correctly                 pollutants as required by  - NOV; Administrative
                          permit                     Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                         Recurring failure to       Adjudication
                          monitor                    - Compliance Meeting
                                                     - Compliance Agreement
                                                     - Civil Action
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
Improper sampling         Evidence of intent         Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Terminate service
Failure to install        Delay of less than 30 days - NOV; Administrative
monitoring equipment                                 Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Meeting
                         Delay of 30 days or        - Compliance order to
                                                     install with fine for each
                                                     additional day;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Agreement
                         Recurring, violation of    - Civil Action
                          compliance order           - Terminate service
                          Missed milestone by 30     - NOV w/fines;
                          days, or will affect final Administrative
Compliance Schedules      milestone (good cause for  Adjudication
                          delay)                     - Compliance Meeting
                                                     - Compliance Order
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                          Missed milestone by more   - Show Cause Order;
                          than 30 days, or will      Administrative
                         affect final milestone (no Adjudication
                          good cause for delay       - Compliance Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Civil Action
                                                     - Terminate service
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                         Recurring violation        Adjudication
                                                     - Civil Action
                                                     - Terminate service
Exceedence of local or                               - Phone call/Fax
Federal Standard (permit  Isolated, not significant  - NOV; Administrative
limit)                                               Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                         Isolated, significant (no  - Compliance Meeting
                          harm to POTW/environment)  - Compliance Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Agreement
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                          Isolated (results in harm  Administrative
                         to POTW/environment)       Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Order
                                                     - Show Cause Order
                          Recurring, chronic (no     - NOV w/fines- Compliance
                         harm to POTW/environment)  Order; Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Order;
                                                     Administrative
                          Recurring; chronic,        Adjudication
                         significant (results in    - Show Cause Order;
                          harm to POTW/environment)  Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Civil Action
                                                     - Terminate service
                                                     - Obtain warrant and
                          Entry denied or consent    return to IU
Entry Denial              withdrawn                  - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Show Cause Order;
                         Copies of records denied   Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
Illegal Discharge         No harm to POTW/           Adjudication
                          environment                - Compliance Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                          Discharges causes harm to  Administrative
                          POTW/environment or        Adjudication
                         evidence of intent/        - Show Cause Order;
                          negligence                 Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Civil Action
                         Recurring, violation of    - Terminate service
                          compliance order
                          Isolated occurrence;
                          sampling at incorrect
Improper Sampling         location; or incorrect     - NOV; Administrative
                          sample type; or incorrect  Adjudication
                          sample collection
                          techniques
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                          Recurring; sampling at     - Compliance Meeting
                          incorrect location; or     - Compliance Order;
                         incorrect sample type, or  Administrative
                          incorrect sample           Adjudication
                          collection techniques      - Compliance Agreement
                                                     - Show Cause Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
Inadequate recording      Inspector finds files      - NOV; Administrative
keeping                   incomplete to missing (no  Adjudication
                          evidence of intent)
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Meeting
                                                     - Compliance Order;
                         Recurring                  Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Agreement
                                                     - Show Cause Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
Failure to report         Inspector finds additional - NOV; Administrative
additional monitoring     files                      Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                         Recurring                  Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
Waste streams are diluted                            - Compliance Meeting
in lieu of treatment      Initial violation          - Compliance Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Agreement
                                                     - Show Cause Order
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Meeting
                         Recurring                  - Compliance Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Show Cause Order
                                                     - Terminate service
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Meeting
Failure to mitigate       No harm to POTW/           - Compliance Order;
noncompliance or halt     environment                Administrative
production                                           Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Agreement
                                                     - Show Cause Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                         Results in harm to POTW/   Adjudication
                          environment                - Compliance Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Meeting
Failure to properly       No harm to POTW/           - Compliance Order;
operate and maintain      environment                Administrative
pretreatment facility                                Adjudication
                                                     - Compliance Agreement
                                                     - Show Cause Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
                                                     - NOV w/fines;
                                                     Administrative
                          Results in harm to POTW/   Adjudication
                         environment                - Compliance Meeting
                                                     - Compliance Order;
                                                     Administrative
                                                     Adjudication
 
SPILLS AND OTHER VIOLATIONS
 
NONCOMPLIANCE              CIRCUMSTANCES              ENFORCEMENT RESPONSES
                           Isolated without known     - Phone call/Fax
Reported spill, slug load, interference or pass       - NOV w/fines;
bypass                     through                    Administrative
                                                      Adjudication
                                                      - NOV w/fines;
                                                      Administrative
                           Isolated with known        Adjudication
                          interference or pass       - Compliance Meeting
                           through                    - Compliance Order;
                                                      Administrative
                                                      Adjudication
                                                      - NOV w/fines;
                                                      Administrative
                           Recurring with known       Adjudication
                          interference pass or       - Show Cause Order;
                           threat of human safety     Administrative
                                                      Adjudication
                                                      - Civil Action
                                                      - NOV w/fines;
                                                      Administrative
Failure to notify of spill No known interference,     Adjudication
slug load, bypass, or      pass through or threat to  - Compliance Meeting
pretreatment malfunction   human safety               - Compliance Order;
                                                      Administrative
                                                      Adjudication
                                                      - NOV w/fines;
                                                      Administrative
                                                      Adjudication
                                                      - Compliance Meeting
                           Known interference, pass   - Compliance Order;
                          through or threat to human Administrative
                           safety                     Adjudication
                                                      - Show Cause Order;
                                                      Administrative
                                                      Adjudication
                                                      - Civil Action
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 54, App. A) (Ord. 25-2001, passed 8-20-2025)
CHAPTER 55: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
55.01   Purpose and scope
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Annual registration required
   
55.04   Permit required; applications and fees
   
55.05   Action on permit applications
   
55.06   Effect of permit
   
55.07   Revised permit drawings
   
55.08   Insurance
   
55.09   Indemnification
   
55.10   Security
   
55.11   Permit suspension and revocation
   
55.12   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
55.13   General construction standards
   
55.14   Traffic control
   
55.15   Location of facilities
   
55.16   Construction methods and materials
   
55.17   Vegetation control
   
55.18   Removal, relocation or modifications of utility facilities
   
55.19   Clean-up and restoration
   
55.20   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
55.21   Variances
   
55.22   Enforcement
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including, but not limited
to, damage to trees, from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village’s residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-
way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards, conditions
and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so determines.
Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the village to
regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 55.01) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 I.A.C. § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. The term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. The term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. The term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices, such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope and a clear run-out area.
The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and on the
roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Municipal Code of the village.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Village Director of Public Works, or their
designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The Village Engineer or their designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within rights-of-way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic,
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC, pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   IDOT. State Department of Transportation.
   ICC. State Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major collector roads,
minor arterial highways, major arterial highways or combination thereof.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. The entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
55.04 and
55.05.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products, including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the village.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 calendar days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, easement, highway, roadway or
other area disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility and/or drainage easements, in which the village has
the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of
facilities other than those of the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall
not include any real or personal village property that is not specifically
described in the previous two sentences and shall not include village
buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether
they are situated in the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. The part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. The amount of security required pursuant to §
55.10.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following), as now or hereafter
amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an open video system
fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined in the Rules
of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. pt. 76.1500 and following),
as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in making sales
of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. The term as defined in the Illinois Cable and Video
Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-201(v).
   VILLAGE. The Village of Romeoville.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Prior Code, § 55.02) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 55.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, providing the
utility’s name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers;
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-
way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such person; and evidence of
insurance as required in §
55.08, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Prior Code, § 55.03) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any
village right-of-way which changes the location of the facility, adds a new
facility, disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter) or materially
increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on, over, above,
along, under, across or within the right-of-way, without first filing an
application with the Director of Public Works and obtaining a permit from the
village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall
be required for installation and maintenance of service connections to
customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, email address and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and email
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   The names, addresses, email addresses, telephone and telecopy
numbers of all contractors and subcontractors, if any, performing construction
work on behalf of the applicant;
      (5)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (6)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a)   A written traffic-control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the latest edition
of the Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices to prevent injury or
damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to efficient
pedestrian and vehicular traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed.
      (7)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed
complete from the point of origin to terminus regardless if a portion of the
work is to be performed outside the right-of-way. Such plans and specifications
shall bear the certification of a state registered professional engineer that
such drawings, plans and specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and
regulations. Such plans shall at a minimum address the construction standards
described within §
55.16, and include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Sufficient detail of existing right-of-way and easements
dimensioned from a section corner, lot corners or other known survey
monumentation;
         (b)   As may be required by the village, sufficient topographic
information identifying all existing physical features along and near the
proposed utility site(s), including, but not limited to, the edge of roadway
pavement, existing utilities, trees and bushes, street lights, roadway signage,
drainage ditches/swales and the like. Grading information shall be provided for
all proposed utility sites where drainage problems exist or may result as
determined by the Public Works Director;
         (c)   Proposed permanent and temporary easements as may be required to
construct proposed utilities. Plats of easement shall be provided as necessary;
         (d)   Detail drawings depicting the width, length, height, color and
materials for all utility structures proposed to protrude above the ground
surface; and
         (e)   Sufficient notes describing construction methods, proposed depth
of facilities, separation from existing utilities, proposed final grading plan,
ground restoration specifications and erosion control plans as may be required.
      (8)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
55.08;
      (9)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
55.10;
      (10)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see §
55.21); and
      (11)   Such additional information as required on the permit application
form and as may be reasonably required by the village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any “certificate of public
convenience and necessity” or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies, have
been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, have been satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $400. Application fee is required to
be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee Act, 35 ILCS 645/5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 55.04) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.05 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village review of permit applications.
      (1)   Completed permit applications, containing all required
documentation, shall be examined by the Director of Public Works within a
reasonable time after filing. If the application does not conform to the
requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the
Director of Public Works shall reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefor. If the Director of Public Works is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the Director of Public Works
shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it
shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the
Director of Public Works, that the construction proposed under the application
shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Permit application for work involving the installation of an
aboveground utility structure, which includes, but is not limited to,
construction of concrete pads, cabinets, controllers, buildings or other
aboveground enclosures may, after initial examination by the Director of Public
Works, also be reviewed for aesthetic conformity by the Director of Community
Development. In such cases, issuance of the permit shall be by the Director of
Community Development, within the time frame as detailed in subsequent sections
of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional village review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the village that it intends to
commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications
and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the
facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work requiring no
excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring excavation. The Director of Public Works shall specify the portion of
the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Director of Public Works fails to provide
such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer, or reject
application as provided in division (A) above, within either ten days after
service of notice to the village by the telecommunications retailer in the case
of work not involving excavation for new construction or 25 days after service
of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving
excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence
work without obtaining a permit under this chapter. The ten-day and 25-day time
frames established herein shall commence on the date of receipt of application
by the village. Should any applicant intend to commence work on the basis of
this division, the applicant shall first notify the village of such intent and
to verify the actual date of receipt.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
55.04, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the village an
application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional village review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq., shall be deemed
granted 45 days after the application is received by the village, unless
otherwise acted upon by the village; provided the holder has complied with
applicable village codes, ordinances and regulations. Any holder intending to
commence work on the basis of this division shall first notify the village of
such intent and to verify the actual date its application was received.
(Prior Code, § 55.05) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 55.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in or adjacent to the rights-of-
way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the village with
such village representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Business license required. All contractors and subcontractors
performing construction activities authorized under a permit issued by the
village shall be properly licensed and bonded in accordance with the
requirements of the Building Department. Issuance of a permit by the village
does not excuse all contractors and subcontractors of the applicant from
obtaining the proper license to do business in the village.
   (E)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 55.06) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 55.07 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of “as-built” drawings or plans to the village within 90
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with §
55.21. If the village denies the request for a variance, then the permittee
shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility
so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 55.07) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 55.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the village, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, consultants, agents and employees as
additional insureds on the policies listed in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2)
below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“X,” “C” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Workers’ compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
   (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
“It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the Village Manager of such intent to cancel or
not to renew.”
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) above,
such as evidence that the utility is a “private self-insurer” under the
Workers’ Compensation Act, 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state. All insurance
carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better and of a class
size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Prior Code, § 55.08) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, consultants, agents and
representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the
construction of facilities or occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing
or offering service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are
authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license or
similar agreement; provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations
hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages,
losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct
or breach of this chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees,
agents or representatives.
(Prior Code, § 55.09) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 55.10 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and in an
amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
      (2)   The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
         (a)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the
requirements of this chapter;
         (b)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the village
occasioned by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules,
regulations, orders, permits and other directives of the village issued
pursuant to this chapter; and
         (c)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form.
      (1)   The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the village in the
form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the village or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
village.
      (2)   Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this
division shall, at a minimum:
         (a)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
         (b)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection
by the village of any amounts covered by it; and
         (c)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within
the state at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Director of Public Works, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs, including attorneys’ fees, that the village
estimates are likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such
restoration. The reasonably estimated cost as described above shall be
multiplied by 125% to establish the Security Fund amount. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Director of
Public Works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals.
      (1)   The village, upon 14 calendar days’ advance written notice, clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise, withdrawal rights under
this division, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund; provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the 14-day
notice period.
      (2)   Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
         (a)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
         (b)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due
and unpaid;
         (c)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
         (d)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the
village determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 calendar days after receipt of written notice
from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the
permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division
(C) above.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village; provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation; provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Prior Code, § 55.10) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 55.11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Noncompliance with this chapter or with any other applicable
provisions of this code, or the laws of the state;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this chapter.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the village, providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation.
      (2)   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division.
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A)
above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) above, the village or its
designee may, at the option of the village: correct the deficiencies; upon not
less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the subject facilities or
equipment; or after not less than 30 days’ notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the village. The
permittee shall be liable in all events to the village for all costs of
removal.
(Prior Code, § 55.11) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 55.12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the village no less
than 30 calendar days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit.
      (1)   A new owner shall request that any current permit be amended to
show current ownership within 30 calendar days of assuming of ownership
responsibilities.
      (2)   If the new owner fails to have a new or amended permit issued in
its name within said 30-day period, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village’s right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Prior Code, § 55.12) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices;
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Construction regulations; responsibility. All construction in the
right-of-way shall conform to the latest regulations and standards of the
United States Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA), including, but not limited to, requirements for confined space entry.
The applicant and its contractors, subcontractors and assigns shall be solely
responsible for all jobsite safety issues pertaining to work performed under
permits issued under this chapter.
   (C)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Director of Public Works shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Director of Public Works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a
facility in the future.
(Prior Code, § 55.13) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way. Advance notice signs alerting the
public of work to be performed in the right-of-way shall be erected a minimum
of seven calendar days prior to commencement of the work when deemed necessary
by the Public Works Director.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic. When necessary as
determined by the Public Works Director, the applicant shall submit work
phasing plans which may include limiting work to specific days, and/or times of
day or night, as approved by the village. In such circumstances where the work
is required to be performed only within specified times, work zones shall be
made safe during non-working times for vehicular and pedestrian traffic until
such time that the work may resume, through the use of appropriate traffic
control measures and trench/excavation protection measures, including, but not
limited to, concrete barriers, steel plates and the like.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
55.20, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances. In no case shall access to any residence, business or
institution be blocked outside of normal working hours unless approved in
advance by the village. In cases where permanent access can not be immediately
restored, temporary access to such properties shall be provided by means of
temporary aggregate.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the village.
(Prior Code, § 55.14) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division
(A).
      (1)   No interference with village facilities. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the Director of Public Works determines that
the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village’s utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village’s existing or planned future facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
      (6)   Noise disturbances. No utility facility shall be placed at any
location in such proximity to any residence, business or institution such that
the operation of internal systems, cooling and/or exhaust fans and the like
within the facility creates noise levels annoying and/or disturbing to the
health, safety, comfort or peace of the occupants of any nearby residence,
business or institution.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities.
         (a)   Overhead parallel facilities are strongly discouraged and shall
only be allowed if the village determines that placement of facilities
underground is impractical, unfeasible or undesirable. Temporary installation
of overhead facilities may be allowed if necessary to provide service prior to
the availability of suitable conditions or acquisition of necessary easement
(s). Determination of the acceptability of an overhead installation and the
conditions for such installation shall be at the sole discretion of the
village.
         (b)   If deemed by the village to be acceptable, an overhead parallel
facility could be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
            1.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
            2.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
            3.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
            4.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
            5.   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot
(0.3 m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way
line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any abovegrounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable. The design parameters specified in this section
shall be used as guidelines to be followed in all cases unless special
circumstances, as defined by the village, warrant consideration of a variance
from these guidelines.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. Overhead parallel
facilities are strongly discouraged and shall only be allowed if the village
determines that placement of facilities underground is impractical, unfeasible
or undesirable. Temporary installation of overhead facilities may be allowed if
necessary to provide service prior to the availability of suitable conditions
or acquisition of necessary easement(s). Determination of the acceptability of
an overhead installation and the conditions for such installation shall be at
the sole discretion of the village. In such cases, an overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
I.A.C. 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 C.F.R. pt. 192.707).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities are strongly discouraged and shall
only be allowed if the village determines that placement of facilities
underground is impractical, unfeasible or undesirable. Temporary installation
of overhead facilities may be allowed if necessary to provide service prior to
the availability of suitable conditions or acquisition of necessary easement
(s). Determination of the acceptability of an overhead installation and the
conditions for such installation shall be at the sole discretion of the
village.
      (2)   Aboveground facilities may be installed only if:
         (a)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
         (b)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   (a)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a
facility installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data
demonstrating the impracticability of alternate routing.
         (b)   Approval or disapproval of an application for facility
attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be based upon the following
considerations:
            1.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
            2.   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
            3.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicality;
            4.   The proposed method of attachment;
            5.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
            6.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and
painting;
            7.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
            8.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as
compared to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
      (3)   The village may require that utility structures of a similar type
and function be installed with uniformity in appearance to structures at other
locations with respect to size, color, materials and the like.
(Prior Code, § 55.15) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking. All work shall be done in accordance with the
applicable articles of § 552 of the IDOT Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are completed.
While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades.
Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced and maintained so that it
will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it
during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished by directional drilling or
with an auger and following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not
exceed the outside diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm)
unless otherwise approved in advance by the Village Engineer.
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, directional
drilling, guided with auger or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for all areas and especially for paved or hard
surface areas shall be performed only in circumstances when directional boring
or other trenchless construction method is impractical or unfeasible, at the
discretion of the Director of Public Works. If deemed necessary, trenching for
facility installation, repair or maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in
accordance with the applicable portions of § 603 of IDOT’s “Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.”
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Village Engineer.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction.” When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Director of Public Works, the utility, at its expense, shall,
within ten calendar days of such order, remove any pavement and backfill
material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly compact new
backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to
the proper grades, as determined by the Engineer.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
55.21, the following requirements shall apply.
         (a)   1.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled as soon
as practicable with a flowable fill lightweight concrete material.
            2.   The trench shall be plated to allow for traffic operations
during the curing period, and then paved within 24 hours of the backfill
mixture cure.
            3.   Properly compacted CA-6 granular material may be allowed in
specific circumstances at the sole discretion of the Public Works Director.
         (b)   1.   Restoration of pavement in kind, including pedestrian
travel ways such as sidewalks and bike paths, shall be accomplished as soon as
practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately.
            2.   Temporary pavement shall be of sufficient quality and
sufficiently smooth to allow for the safe use of pedestrians, bicyclists and
motorists as may be applicable until final restoration can be completed.
            3.   Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         (c)   All pavement removals shall be accomplished by straight, full-
depth saw cuts a minimum of four feet away from each edge of the trench or
excavation. Saw cut joints created by the utility trench and subsequent
pavement replacement shall be crack filled immediately after final pavement
restoration is completed.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last five
years, pavement cut permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined
to be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen
before the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for
a J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
Village Engineer.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   1.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement
shall be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway.
            2.   Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed prior to
highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical joints are of
a type approved by the village.
            3.   Bell and spigot type pipe shall be encased regardless of
installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
cathodic protection of the pipe is provided; and
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                        Minium Cover
Communication, cable or video service   24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                   village)
Electric lines                          30 inches (0.8 m)
Gas or petroleum products               30 inches (0.8 m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage 48 inches (1.3 m)
line
Water line                              66 inches (1.75 m)
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 I.A.C. pt. 305 (formerly General Order 160
of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for Construction of
Electric Power and Communications Lines,” and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities,
if allowed by the village, shall use single pole construction and, where
practicable, joint use of poles shall be used. Utilities shall make every
reasonable effort to design the installation so guys and braces will not be
needed. Variances may be allowed if there is no feasible alternative and if guy
wires are equipped with guy guards for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities. Cable may be installed by trenching or
plowing; provided that special consideration is given to boring in order to
minimize damage when crossing improved entrances and side roads. If a crossing
is installed by boring or jacking, encasement shall be provided between jacking
or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated only if: the crossing is installed
by the use of “moles,” “whip augers” or other approved method which compress
the earth to make the opening for cable installation or the installation is by
the open trench method which is only permitted prior to roadway construction.
Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles,” “whip augers” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 C.F.R. pt. 192), IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction,” and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI/ASME-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, stormwater sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.”
      (6)   Ground-mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Director of Public Works. With the approval of
the Director of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s “Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” the requirements of the State
Commerce Commission or the standards established by other official regulatory
agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Village Engineer.
When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms or
other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be obtained from
the village.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the village, shall be required to be discontinued when such operations would
create hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such
operations may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when
conditions are such that construction would result in extensive damage to the
right-of-way or other property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Director of Public Works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are those otherwise established by this code.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in
accordance with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220
ILCS 50/1 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 55.16) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities - compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall regularly conduct all tree trimming and vegetation
control activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable state laws
and regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities - tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable state laws and regulations specifically
governing the same shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in the following paragraph, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control.
(Prior Code, § 55.17) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any
village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities.
      (1)   Within 30 days following written notice from the village, any
utility that owns, controls or maintains any unauthorized facility or related
appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall, at its own expense, remove all or
any part of such facilities or appurtenances from the rights-of-way.
      (2)   A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
         (b)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
         (c)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior
issuance of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
         (d)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice, the village may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director of Public Works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not direct the utility
that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to
the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the
alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility
or person.
(Prior Code, § 55.18) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.19 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten calendar days after any portion of the
rights-of-way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or
maintenance by the utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This
includes restoration of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway
surfaces shall be made using materials and methods approved by the Director of
Public Works. Such clean-up and repair may be required to consist of
backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding or any other requirement to
restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which
existed prior to the commencement of the project. The time period provided in
this section may be extended by the Director of Public Works for good cause
shown.
   (B)   The scope and extent to which all restoration shall be performed shall
be at the sole discretion of the Public Works Director. Sidewalk removed for
replacement shall be removed to the nearest full section or expansion joint.
Any sidewalks, bike paths, roadways, driveways, landscaped areas or other areas
under which directional boring has been performed and for which disturbance of
any kind is visible at the surface shall be removed and replaced as deemed
necessary by the Director of Public Works; any areas between disturbances less
than 100 feet in length shall not be allowed to remain in place but shall be
replaced in conjunction with the disturbed sections. Any trees or plantings
disturbed by utility installation shall be acceptably pruned in accordance with
§
55.17 if deemed salvageable by the Director of Public Works. Any disturbed
trees or plantings deemed unsalvageable shall be replaced in kind and as
directed by the Director of Public Works. Backfilling of excavations and
trenches with granular limestone materials shall not be allowed adjacent to the
roots of trees and shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 55.19) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit.
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Director of Public Works or their duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing them as to what steps have been taken for protection of the traveling
public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If the nature
of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of traffic, the
village police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Prior Code, § 55.20) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.21 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Director of
Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Director of Public Works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Director of Public Works may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Director of Public Works may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Director
of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to
appeal to the Village Board, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
Village Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The Village Board shall commence its consideration
of the appeal at the Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at
least seven days after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board shall timely
decide the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 55.21) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 55.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 55.22) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the village
will incur delay or other costs, including third-party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village’s costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit-related
cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that
does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Prior Code, § 55.99) (Ord. 07-0607, passed 11-7-2007)
CHAPTER 56: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
56.01   Purpose and scope
   
56.02   Definitions
   
56.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
56.04   Exceptions to applicability
   
56.05   Pre-existing agreements
   
56.06   Annual recurring rate
   
56.07   Abandonment
   
56.08   Dispute resolution
   
56.09   Indemnification
   
56.10   Insurance
   
56.11   Severability
   
56.12   Relationship to Chapters
55 and
150
§ 56.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 56.01) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, 50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or mechanical
codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to
those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application. The APPLICATION shall be in
such form as from time to time required by the Director of Public Works.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(33), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property or site, or
group of buildings, properties or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the certified local
government program of the State Historic Preservation Office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the State Historic Preservation
Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order
or village ordinance or resolution, including codes incorporated by reference
into ordinances or resolutions adopted by the village.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical or other emergency services to respond
to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley or utility easement dedicated for compatible use. RIGHT-
OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume.
      (2)   The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not
included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment
elements, telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures,
grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch and vertical cable
runs for the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic-control or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS
FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but is
acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Prior Code, § 56.02) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in §
56.09 regarding height exceptions or variances, but shall not be subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated:
      (1)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
      (2)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial
or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the village to
collocate a small wireless facility.
      (2)   An application shall be received and processed, and permits issued
shall be subject to the following conditions and requirements.
         (a)   Application requirements.
            1.   A wireless provider shall provide the following information to
the village, together with the village’s small wireless facilities permit
application, as a condition of any permit application to collocate small
wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support structure:
               a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal
utility pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that
term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
               b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
               c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural
engineer, as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice
Act of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the
application as it is proposed to be installed;
               d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and
all other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
               e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of
each small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
               f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the
collocation requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the
applicant’s knowledge.
            2.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to
be attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
         (b)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows.
            1.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
            2.   a.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or on a replacement of
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
               b.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
village in writing of its’ intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than 75 days after the submission of a completed application.
               c.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
            3.   a.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility
that includes the installation of a new utility pole or wireless support
structure shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved
if the village fails to approve or deny the application within 120 days after
the submission of a completed application.
               b.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than 105 days after the submission of a completed application.
               c.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
one-hundred-twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the
tenth day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The
receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village’s denial
of the permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
            4.   a.   The village shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
               b.   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances
or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
               c.   The village shall document the basis for a denial,
including the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the
denial is based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the
day the village denies an application.
               d.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village’s review period.
               e.   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
               f.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
            5.   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
village and the applicant shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement,
provided by the village for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole
by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant
shall enter into a license supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
The master pole attachment agreement and license supplement shall be in such
form as from time to time required by the Director of Public Works.
         (c)   Completeness of application.
            1.   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village
shall determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant.
If an application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the
missing information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village
fails to provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all
documents, information and fees specifically enumerated in the village’s permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village.
            2.   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village
sends the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the
missing information.
         (d)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled
by:
            1.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
            2.   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
         (e)   Consolidated applications.
            1.   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
            2.   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
         (f)   Duration of permits.
            1.   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of five years,
and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the village
makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified
utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any provision,
condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
            2.   If the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being 50 ILCS
840/1 et seq., is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
         (g)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village’s designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village’s
electric utility uses or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC,
including 47 C.F.R. pts. 22.970 through 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. pts. 90.672
through 90.675.
         (e)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (C)(3)(d) above. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   Utility poles.
         (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution
or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole
or the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this division (C), the terms COMMUNICATIONS
SPACE, COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   Compliance. The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable
codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   Design standards. The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a village ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive
plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the
rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
Without otherwise limiting the generality of the foregoing, the wireless
provider shall take such steps as may be reasonably necessary to cause the
installation of small wireless facilities on village utility poles to utilize
materials, colors and finishes that are consistent with the materials, colors
and finishes used in the village utility poles in question, and to avoid
physical conflicts or interference with existing installations on the utility
poles in question.
      (7)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and
conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocate
small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility
poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility
pole. However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose
that the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this division (C)(7)(b).
      (8)   Height limitations.
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village; provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance from the above height limitations utilizing the
procedures, terms and conditions set forth for variances in Chapter 55.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and
a private property owner that concern design or construction standards
applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-
of-way, where the relevant right-of-way is on or adjacent to real property that
is subject to such a contract.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
of the village concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in
the right-of-way. If an applicant proposes locations for ground-mounted
equipment within right-of-way that do not comply with such spacing
requirements, the applicant shall apply for a variance from such spacing
requirements using the procedures, terms and conditions set forth for variances
in Chapter 55.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way. If an applicant proposes locations
for new or modified utility poles within right-of-way that do not comply with
such undergrounding requirements, the applicant shall apply for a variance from
such undergrounding requirements using the procedures, terms and conditions set
forth for variances in
Chapter 55.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site; provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows.
      (1)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an
application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless
facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more than one
small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
structures.
      (2)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with the equipment specifications required in an original
application; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
(Prior Code, § 56.03) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.04 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small
wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter rail
service, or an electric utility as defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities
Act, being 220 ILCS 5/16-102, without the consent of the rail carrier, public
commuter rail service or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do
not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such utility’s wireless
facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained
consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of § 16-108.5 of the Public
Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/16-108.5(I).
   (B)   (1)   For the purposes of this subsection, PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220
ILCS 5/3-105.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person
from any requirement:
         (a)   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
         (b)   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 56.04) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.05 PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, shall remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018 shall comply with this chapter.
   (B)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 56.05) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.06 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals:
      (1)   Two hundred dollars per year; or
      (2)   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider’s use of space on the village utility pole.
   (B)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 56.06) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.07 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility shall
remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of written
notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the abandonment.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Prior Code, § 56.07) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.08 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit shall have exclusive
jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act, being 50 ILCS 840/1 et seq., or this chapter.
Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to
be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Prior Code, § 56.08) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless against
any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the village with respect to consequential,
incidental or special damages, however caused, based on any theory of
liability.
(Prior Code, § 56.09) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.10 INSURANCE.
   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost and
expense, such insurance as is required by §
55.08. The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility. A wireless provider
may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage and limit
requirement required by the village. A wireless provider that self-insures is
not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with the
requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A wireless
provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the village.
(Prior Code, § 56.10) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or application thereof to any person or
circumstances is ruled unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter that can be
given effect without the invalid application or provision, and each invalid
provision or invalid application of this chapter is severable.
(Prior Code, § 56.11) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
§ 56.12 RELATIONSHIP TO CHAPTERS 55 AND 150.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be supplemented by the provisions of
Chapters
55 and
150, as and when the same may be applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in
the event of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter or the Act and
the provisions of Chapters
55 and
150, the provisions of this chapter or the Act shall control over any contrary
provision of Chapters
55 and
150.
(Prior Code, § 56.12) (Ord. 18-1490, passed 7-18-2018)
CHAPTER 57: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
Purpose and Definitions
   
57.001   Purposes of this chapter
   
57.002   Definitions
Requirements for Stormwater Management
General Information
   
57.015   Other applicable sections
   
57.016   Applicability of site runoff storage requirements (detention)
   
57.017   Exemptions from site runoff storage requirements (detention)
General Stormwater Requirements
   
57.030   Requirements applicable to all development
   
57.031   Requirements applicable to all subdivisions and commercial
developments
   
57.032   Building permits
   
57.033   Single parcel developments
   
57.034   Overland flow paths
   
57.035   Protection of buildings
   
57.036   Depressional storage
Site Runoff Requirements
   
57.050   Stormwater facility discharges
   
57.051   Minor stormwater system criteria
   
57.052   Major stormwater system criteria
   
57.053   Existing subsurface and surface drainage systems
   
57.054   Design runoff rate
   
57.055   Design rainfall
   
57.056   Stormwater systems easements
   
57.057   Flow depths
   
57.058   Diversion of flow to another watershed
   
57.059   Best management practices requirements
Site Runoff Storage Requirements (Detention/Extended Detention)
   
57.070   Release rate
   
57.071   Design methods
   
57.072   Existing release rate less than allowable
   
57.073   Downstream water surface elevations
   
57.074   Extended detention requirement
   
57.075   Site runoff storage facility design requirements
   
57.076   Site runoff storage facility requirements within the regulatory
floodplain
   
57.077   Site runoff storage facility requirements within the regulatory
floodway
   
57.078   Off-site facilities
   
57.079   Cross-stream structures for site runoff storage facilities
Stormwater Requirements for Agricultural Land Use
Including Croplands, Pasture Lands and Farmsteads
   
57.090   Applicability
   
57.091   Conservation planning and performance standards
   
57.092   Drainage practices, requirements and design criteria
   
57.093   Sediment control for open channels
   
57.094   Maintenance and construction of drainage systems
Sediment and Erosion Control
   
57.105   Site planning
   
57.106   Standards and specifications
   
57.107   General requirements
   
57.108   Extended construction shutdown periods
   
57.109   Hydraulic and hydrologic design requirements
   
57.110   “As-needed” practices on the plans
   
57.111   Sediment and erosion control plan requirements
   
57.112   Conveyance of off-site flow
   
57.113   Stockpiles
   
57.114   Storm sewer inlets
   
57.115   Construction dewatering
   
57.116   Protection of public/private roadways
   
57.117   Temporary stream crossings
   
57.118   Inspections
Protection of Special Management Areas
   
57.130   Floodplains and floodways
   
57.131   Floodplain, regulatory floodplain, base flood elevation (BFE) and
regulatory floodway locations
   
57.132   General performance standards
   
57.133   Compensatory storage volume standards
   
57.134   Floodway standards
   
57.135   Riverine floodplain
   
57.136   Bridge and culvert standards
Stream and Wetlands Protection
   
57.150   Authority
   
57.151   Title
   
57.152   Purpose and intent
   
57.153   Site development permit
   
57.154   General provisions; area affected
   
57.155   Watercourse relocation and minor modifications (including
channelization and relocation)
   
57.156   Impact assessment
   
57.157   Stream maintenance easement
   
57.158   Threatened and endangered species
   
57.159   Security
   
57.160   Liability
   
57.161   Separability
   
57.162   Retroactivity
   
57.163   Enforcement
Stormwater Management Permit Submittal Requirements
General Requirements
   
57.175   Stormwater management and other permits required
   
57.176   Permit review fees
   
57.177   Professional seals and certifications required
Duration and Revision to Permits
   
57.190   Permit expiration
   
57.191   Permit extension
   
57.192   Permit revision
Required Submittals
   
57.205   Generally
   
57.206   Modification of submittal requirements
   
57.207   Applications and project overview
   
57.208   Plan set submittal
   
57.209   Stormwater submittal
   
57.210   Floodplain submittal
Submittal Prior to Permit Issuance
   
57.225   Additional submittals required
   
57.226   Performance security
   
57.227   Maintenance schedule and funding
   
57.228   Record drawings
   
57.229   Issuance or denial of permit and appeal of permit denial
Long-Term Maintenance
   
57.240   Long-term maintenance
   
57.241   Transfer to permitting authority or other public entity
   
57.242   Transfer to homeowners’ or similar association
   
57.243   Conveyance to one or more persons
   
57.244   Incorporation of maintenance obligations in stormwater management
permit
   
57.245   Funding of long-term maintenance of stormwater facilities
Enforcement and Penalties
   
57.260   Inspection and maintenance authority
   
57.261   Required inspections
   
57.262   Offenses
   
57.263   Offenses; penalties; remedies
   
57.264   Violations of §§
57.090 through
57.094
General Provisions
   
57.275   Scope of regulation
   
57.276   Exemptions
   
57.277   Community’s list of proposed exempt developments
   
57.278   Interpretation
   
57.279   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
57.280   Violations
   
57.281   Severability
   
57.282   Repealer
   
57.283   Effective date
Variances
   
57.295   Purpose
   
57.296   Application for variances
   
57.297   Application fee
   
57.298   Public hearing
   
57.299   Granting of variances
   
57.300   Recommendations
   
57.301   Decision
   
57.302   Conditions
Administration
   
57.315   Responsibility for administration
   
57.316   Duties of Director
   
57.317   Duties of Administrator
   
57.318   Representative capacity
   
57.319   Oversight Committee
   
57.320   Service
   
57.321   Publication
Performance Security
   
57.335   General security requirements
   
57.336   Development security
   
57.337   Sediment and erosion control security
   
57.338   Letters of credit
Fee-in-Lieu of On-Site Detention
   
57.350   Fee-in-lieu of on-site detention
 
   
57.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Table 1. Will County Stormwater Technical Guidance Manual
Rainfall Depths and Intensities
   
Appendix B:   Table 2. Summary of Applicable Chapter Sections for Developments
in Floodplains
   
Appendix C:   Table 3. Permit Submittal Requirements
   
Appendix D:   Table 4. Village of Romeoville List of Proposed Exempt
Developments
   
Appendix E:   Figure 1. Detention Volume vs. Percent Impervious Will County
Rainfall
   
Appendix F:   Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
Panels
**** PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS ****
§ 57.001 PURPOSES OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The principal purpose of this chapter is to promote effective,
equitable, acceptable and legal stormwater management measures by establishing
reasonable rules and regulations for development.
   (B)   Other purposes of this chapter include:
      (1)   Managing and mitigating the effects of urbanization on stormwater
drainage throughout the village through planning, appropriate engineering
practices and proper maintenance;
      (2)   Protecting from, and reducing the existing potential for, loss of
human life, health, safety and property from the hazards of flooding damages on
a watershed basis;
      (3)   Preserving and enhancing the natural hydrologic and hydraulic
functions and natural characteristics of watercourses and floodplains to
protect water quality, protect aquatic habitats, reduce flood damages, reduce
soil erosion, provide recreational and aesthetic benefits and enhance community
and economic development;
      (4)   Controlling sediment and erosion in and from stormwater facilities,
developments, agricultural fields and construction sites and reducing and
repairing stream bank erosion;
      (5)   Requiring that planning for development provide for water resource
management, taking into account natural features, such as vegetation, wildlife,
waterways, wetlands and topography, in order to reduce the probability that new
development will create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
      (6)   Protecting environmentally sensitive areas from deterioration or
destruction by private or public actions;
      (7)   Requiring appropriate and adequate provision for site runoff
control, especially when the land is developed with a large amount of
impervious surface;
      (8)   Requiring the design and evaluation of each site stormwater
management plan consistent with watershed capacities;
      (9)   Encouraging the use of stormwater storage and infiltration of
stormwater in preference to stormwater conveyance;
      (10)   Lessening the taxpayers’ burden for flood-related disasters,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      (11)   Meeting the State Department of Natural Resources - Office of
Water Resources floodway permitting requirements delineated in 615 ILCS 5/18g
(“An Act in Relation to the Regulation of the Rivers, Lakes, and Streams of the
State of Illinois”), as amended from time to time;
      (12)   Making federally subsidized flood insurance available in the
village by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance program;
      (13)   Complying with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified in Title 44 C.F.R.;
      (14)   Restricting future development in the floodplain to facilities
that will not adversely affect the potential for flood damage;
      (15)   Requiring regular, planned maintenance of stormwater management
facilities; and
      (16)   Allowing the use of simple technologies whenever appropriate and
realistic, but requiring the use of more sophisticated techniques when
necessary to ensure the adequacy of stormwater controls.
(Prior Code, § 160.001) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words and
terms not defined shall have the meanings indicated by common dictionary
definition.
   ADMINISTRATIVE VIOLATION. An administrative violation of the chapter occurs
when rules and procedures regarding permit applications and stormwater
management permits are not followed.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the permitting village to administer
and enforce this chapter.
   AGRICULTURAL REVIEW ADVISORY COMMITTEE. The Agricultural Review Advisory
Committee shall be composed of at least three county residents who live and own
and operate or tenant operate at least 60 contiguous acres of farmland in the
county and representatives appointed by the following agencies: Will and South
Cook Soil and Water Conservation District, U.S.D.A., Natural Resource
Conservation Service and Will County Farm Bureau. The Stormwater Management
Committee will appoint these individuals in accordance with Article 3, § 1D of
the bylaws. The Stormwater Committee will consider committee member nomination
recommendations from any active the county agricultural not-for-profit
organization.
   AGRICULTURAL SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE. A water management technique driven by
economic and safety concerns, where the rate at which surplus groundwater
should be removed is determined primarily by the moisture/air requirements of
the vegetation (commonly called “tiles, “field tiles” and the like)
   APPLICABLE ENGINEERING PRACTICE. Procedures, methods or materials
recommended in standard engineering textbooks or references as suitable for the
intended purpose.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm or governmental agency who executes the
necessary forms to procure official approval of a development or permit to
carry out construction of a development from the village.
   APPROPRIATE USE. Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible
and will be considered for permit issuance. The list of permissible uses is
contained in §§
57.130 through
57.136 and
57.150 through
57.163.
   ARMORING. A form of channel modification which involves the placement of
materials (concrete, riprap, bulkheads and the like) within a stream channel or
along a shore line to protect property above streams, lakes and ponds from
erosion and wave damage caused by wave action and stream flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in a given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The highest water surface elevation that can be
expected during the base flood.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). A measure used to control the adverse
stormwater-related effects of development. BMPs include structural devices
(e.g., swales, filter strips, infiltration trenches and detention basins)
designed to remove pollutants, reduce runoff rates and volumes and protect
aquatic habitats. BMPs also include nonstructural approaches, such as public
education efforts to prevent the dumping of household chemicals into storm
drains.
   BOUNCE. The difference between the normal water level and the design high
water level in a wet bottom pond, and the invert of the outlet control and the
design high water level for a dry bottom pond.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also
includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site
for more than 180 days, unless fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the village for the construction,
erection or alteration of a structure or building.
   BUFFER. An area of predominantly vegetated land located adjacent to
channels, wetlands, lakes or ponds for the purpose of reducing contaminants in
stormwater that flows to such areas.
   BULKHEAD. A retaining wall that protects property along water.
   BULLETIN 70. “Frequency Distributions and Hydroclimatic Characteristics of
Heavy Rainstorms in Illinois” by Floyd Huff and James Angel of the State Water
Survey (1989).
   BYPASS FLOWS. Stormwater runoff or groundwater from upstream properties
tributary to a property’s drainage system but not under its control.
   CHANNEL. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash or natural or human-made drainage way, which has a definite bed
and bank or shoreline, in or into which surface, groundwater, effluent or
industrial discharges flow either perennially or intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION. Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION includes
damming, rip rapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody rooted vegetation
but does not include the clearing of debris or removal of trash or dredging to
previously documented thalwag elevations and side slopes.
   CHANNELIZATION. A severe form of channel modification involving a
significant change in the channel cross-section and typically involving
relocation of the existing channel (e.g., straightening).
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes vegetative ground cover.
   COMMERCIAL. Sale of goods to the public at-large where the traffic generated
warrants construction of site improvements.
   COMMERCIAL REDEVELOPMENT. Development on a parcel upon which the existing
condition is buildings, parking lots and infrastructure associated with
commercial activities. Additions to existing buildings and new impervious
surfaces added after the effective date of the chapter are specifically
excluded from this definition.
   COMMITTEE. The County Stormwater Management Committee.
   COMMUNITY. The Village of Romeoville.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An excavated, hydrologically and hydraulically
equivalent volume of storage created to offset the loss of existing flood
storage.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (CLOMA). A FEMA comment letter
conditionally removing a development proposed to be located in, and affecting
only that portion of, the area of floodplain outside the regulatory floodway
and having no impact on the existing regulatory floodway or base flood
elevations.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A letter that indicates that
FEMA will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood
boundaries or floodways as shown on an effective FIRM or FBFM after the record
drawings are submitted and approved.
   COE. The United States Army Corps of Engineers.
   CONSERVATION PLANNING. The practices and procedures associated with the
management of soil, water, plants, plant nutrients and other elements of
agricultural production. Documentation of the management system shall only be
as required by the NRCS or in cases of a complaint, as requested by the
administrator in response to a notification of a complaint.
   CONTROL STRUCTURE. A structure designed to limit the rate of flow that
passes through the structure to a specific rate, given a specific upstream and
downstream water surface elevation.
   COUNTY. Will County, Illinois.
   CULVERT. A structure designed to carry drainage water or small streams below
barriers, such as roads, driveways or railway embankments.
   CRITICAL DURATION. The duration of a storm event that results in the
greatest peak runoff.
   DAM. Any obstruction, wall embankment or barrier, together with any
abutments and appurtenant works, constructed to store or divert water or to
create a pool (not including underground water storage tanks).
   DEPARTMENT. County Land Use Department.
   DEPRESSIONAL AREA. Any area which is lower in elevation on all sides than
surrounding properties (i.e., does not drain freely), or whose drainage is
severely limited such as by a restrictive culvert. A DEPRESSIONAL AREA will
fill with water on occasion when runoff into it exceeds the rate of
infiltration into underlying soil or exceeds the discharge through its
controlled outlet. Large DEPRESSIONAL AREAS may provide significant stormwater
or floodplain storage.
   DEPRESSIONAL STORAGE. The volume contained below a closed contour on a one-
foot contour interval topographic map, the upper elevation which is determined
by the invert of a surface gravity outlet.
   DETENTION BASIN (SITE RUNOFF STORAGE FACILITY). A constructed structure for
the temporary storage of stormwater runoff with a controlled release rate.
   DEVELOPER. A person who creates or causes a development.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any constructed change to real estate, including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, repair or replacement of a
building or an addition to a building;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than 180 days. If the travel trailer or recreational vehicle is
on-site for less than 180 days, it must be fully licensed and ready for highway
use;
         (c)   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads,
bridges or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams or
culverts, channel modifications, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other non-agricultural alterations of the ground surface, storage materials,
deposit of solids or liquid waste;
         (e)   Any other activity of humans that might change the direction,
height or velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation
removal; and
         (f)   Plowing and cultivation and other similar agricultural practices
that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees as regulated in
§§
57.090 through
57.094.
      (2)   The following are not considered DEVELOPMENT: maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads
with an impervious surface when there is no increase in elevation.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE SITES. Parcels of land, or portions thereof, which are
immediately adjacent to the banks of the Des Plaines River, and Chicago
Sanitary and Ship Canal and which are tributary to these waterways in the
natural course of drainage.
   DIRECTOR. The County Executive, or their designee, charged with performing
the duties specified in the Will County Stormwater Management Ordinance.
   DISTRICT. District means the Lowland Conservancy Overlay District, as
defined in §§
57.150 through
57.163.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The land area upstream of a given point that may contribute
runoff flow at that point from rainfall.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The effective date of the overall Will County Stormwater
Ordinance - January 1, 2005.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATES. A form published by FEMA, or its equivalent, that is
used to certify the base flood elevation and the lowest elevation of usable
space to which a building has been constructed.
   EPHEMERAL STREAM. A stream whose bed elevation does not intersect the
groundwater table, it carries flow only during and immediately after a runoff
producing rainfall event.
   EMERGENCY OVERLAND FLOW ROUTE. The flow path of stormwater runoff calculated
assuming all enclosed storm sewers are inoperable.
   EROSION. The process whereby soil is detached by the action of water or
wind.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or
any other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
   EXISTING GRADE. The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior
to excavation or filling.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   EXTENDED DETENTION. A volume of runoff temporarily detained and released
over a long period of time as specified in §
57.074.
   FEE-IN-LIEU OF DETENTION. A fee paid by a developer to the permitting
authority, commensurate with the costs and fee schedules adopted by the county
and/or the certified community based on the detention volume required for the
development to meet the ordinance release rates. Rules and procedures for fee
in lieu of detention are contained in §
57.350.
   FILL. Any act, by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
humans to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The Federal Agency and its
regulations, at 44 C.F.R. pts. 59 through 79 as amended.
   FILTERED VIEW. The maintenance or establishment of woody vegetation of
sufficient density to screen developments from a stream or wetland, to provide
for streambank stabilization and erosion control, to serve as an aid to
infiltration of surface runoff and to provide cover to shade the water. The
vegetation need not be so dense as to completely block the view. FILTERED VIEW
means no clear cutting.
   FINAL GRADE. The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface after
the grading work is completed in accordance with the site development plan.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal ways or the unusual
and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A floodplain management map issued
by FEMA that depicts, based on detailed analysis, the boundaries of the base
flood, the two-tenth percent probability flood and the floodway.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. Normally expressed as a period of years, based on a percent
chance of occurrence in any given year from statistical analysis, during which
a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded. For
example, the two-year FLOOD FREQUENCY has a 50% chance of occurrence in any
given year. Similarly, the 100-year FLOOD FREQUENCY has a 1% chance of
occurrence in any given year.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map issued by FEMA that is an official
community map, which depicts generalized areas of floodplains, replaced by a
detailed flood insurance study.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map issued by FEMA that is an official
community map, on which map FEMA has delineated both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. This map may or
may not depict floodways.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). A study of flood discharges and flood profiles
for a community, adopted and published by FEMA.
   FLOODPLAIN. That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground
surface elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, including detached special flood hazard areas, ponding areas and the
like. The FLOODPLAIN is also known as the special flood hazard areas (SFHA).
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the BFE, plus two feet of
freeboard for structures within the plane limits of the base flood elevation.
Outside the plane limits, the water table or 100-year design water surface
elevation of any adjacent stormwater facility, including emergency overland
flow routes, whichever is higher, plus one foot of freeboard.
   FLOODPROOF. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures or property which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the FPE.
   FLOODWAY or DESIGNATED FLOODWAY. The floodway includes the channel, on-
stream lakes and that portion of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or channel
which is needed to store and convey the critical duration 100-year frequency
flood discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in flood stage due to the
loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a 10% increase in
velocities.
   FLOODWAY CONVEYANCE. The measure of the flow carrying capacity of the
floodway section and is defined using Manning’s equation as:
            K = 1.4863 AR2/3
               n
   where “n” is Manning’s roughness factor, “A” is the effective area of the
cross-section and “R” is ratio of the wetted area to the wetted perimeter.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of height added to the BFE or 100-year design water
surface elevation to provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in
calculations, unknown local conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects
such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   FUNCTIONAL. In the context of the usage in this chapter, FUNCTIONAL refers
to stormwater facilities, which serve their primary purpose of meeting
developed release rate requirements but do not meet all of the final design
conditions. For example, a detention basin, which has been excavated but has
not had the side slopes graded, nor the final landscaping placed, may be
considered FUNCTIONAL as a site runoff storage facility.
   GOOD HUSBANDRY. Generally accepted agricultural practices found in good farm
management.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
   GROUNDWATER. Water that is located within soil or rock below the surface of
the earth. Also known as SUBSURFACE WATER.
   GROUNDWATER CONTROL SYSTEM. A designed system which may consist of tiles,
under drains, French drains or other appropriate stormwater facilities whose
purpose is to lower the groundwater table to a predictable elevation throughout
the year.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places, or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminary
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by
the State Historic Preservation Agency; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the State Historic Preservation Agency.
   HYDRAULICS. The science and study of the mechanical behavior of water in
physical systems and processes.
   HYDRAULIC CHARACTERISTICS. The features of a watercourse that determine its
water conveyance capacity. These features include, but are not limited to: size
and configuration of the cross-section of the watercourse and floodway; texture
and roughness of materials along the watercourse; alignment of watercourse;
gradient of watercourse; amount and type of vegetation within the watercourse;
and size, configuration and other characteristics of structures within the
watercourse. In low-lying areas, the characteristics of the overbank area also
determine water conveyance capacity.
   HYDRAULICALLY CONNECTED IMPERVIOUS AREA. Hydraulically connected impervious
area shall consist of those areas of concrete, asphalt and gravel surfaces
along with roof tops which convey flows directly to an improved drainage system
consisting of storm sewers or paved channels. Rooftops whose downspouts
discharge to unpaved surfaces which are designed for the absorption and
filtration of stormwater runoff shall not be considered as hydraulically
connected impervious surfaces. Roadways whose primary conveyance is through
open ditches and swales shall not be considered as hydraulically connected
impervious surface. Roadways drained by curb and gutter and storm sewer, and
driveways hydraulically connected to those roadways shall be considered as
DIRECTLY CONNECTED IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.
   HYDRAULICALLY EQUIVALENT COMPENSATORY STORAGE. Compensatory storage either
adjacent to the floodplain fill or not located adjacent to the development but
can be shown by hydrologic and hydraulic analysis to be equivalent to
compensatory storage located adjacent to the development.
   HYDROLOGICALLY DISTURBED. An area where the land surface has been cleared,
grubbed, compacted or otherwise modified that changes runoff, volumes, rates or
direction.
   HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water, including its dynamics,
composition and distribution in the atmosphere, on the surface of the earth and
underground.
   IDNR/OWR. The State Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources.
   IMPERVIOUS. Surfaces that cause the majority of rainfall to be converted to
direct runoff. Asphalt, concrete and roofing systems are to be considered
IMPERVIOUS.
   INDUSTRIAL REDEVELOPMENT. Development on a parcel upon which the existing
condition is buildings, parking lots and infrastructure associated with
industrial activities. Additions to existing buildings and new impervious
surfaces added after the effective date of the chapter are specifically
excluded from consideration as INDUSTRIAL REDEVELOPMENT.
   INTERIM WATERSHED PLAN. A regional study of a watershed which does not
address the entire range of purposes, goals and objectives outlined in the
countywide stormwater management plan, approved by the Committee and adopted by
the county.
   INTERMITTENT STREAM. A stream whose bed intersects the groundwater table for
only a portion of the year on the average or any stream which flows
continuously for at least one month out of the year but not the entire year.
   LAKE. A natural or artificial body of water encompassing an area of two or
more acres, which retains water throughout the year.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). The official determination by FEMA that a
specific structure is not in a regulatory floodplain. A LOMA amends the
effective FHBM, FBFM or FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A letter from FEMA that revises base flood
elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or floodway as shown
on an effective FHBM, FBFM or FIRM.
   LOT. An area of land, with defined boundaries, that is designated in
official assessor’s records as being one parcel.
   MAJOR STORMWATER SYSTEM. The portion of a stormwater facility needed to
store and convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor stormwater system.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than 180 consecutive days. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MASS GRADING. Development in which the primary activity is a change in
topography affected by the movement of earth materials.
   MINOR STORMWATER SYSTEM. Shall consist of all infrastructure including curb,
gutter, culverts, roadside ditches and swales, storm sewers and subsurface
drainage systems intended to convey stormwater runoff at less than a 100-year
flood frequency. The design frequency for MINOR STORMWATER SYSTEMS shall be in
accordance with the applicable ordinances of the local community or Highway
Department jurisdiction.
   MITIGATION. Measures taken to offset negative impacts from development in
wetlands or the floodplain.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). A federal program whose
requirements are codified in Title 44 C.F.R.
   NATURAL. In reference to watercourses, means those stream channels, grassed
waterways and swales formed by the existing surface topography of the earth
prior to changes made by unnatural causes. A NATURAL stream tends to follow a
meandering path; its floodplain is not constrained by levees; the area near the
bank has not been cleared, mowed or cultivated; the stream flows over soil and
geologic materials typical of the area with no alteration of the course or
cross-section of the stream caused by filling or excavating.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes caused by unnatural causes.
   NET BENEFIT IN WATER QUALITY. The institution of best management practices
as part of a development that when compared to the pre-development condition
can be judged to reduce downstream sediment loading or pollutant loadings.
   NET WATERSHED BENEFIT. A finding that, when compared to the existing
condition, the developed project will do one of the following: substantially
reduce (more than 10%) downstream peak discharges; reduce downstream flood
stages (more than 0.1 feet); or reduce downstream damages to structures
occurring in the pre-development condition. The demonstration of one of these
conditions must be through detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analysis of
watersheds on a regional scale as approved by the Administrator.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after April
1, 1990.
   NON-RIVERINE. Areas not associated with a stream or river, such as isolated
depressional storage areas, ponds and lakes.
   NRCS. The United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources
Conservation Service.
   OBSERVATION STRUCTURES. Structures built on a field tile where the pipe
inflow and outflow is visible upon removal of a lid.
   OPEN CHANNEL. A conveyance system with a definable bed and banks carrying
the discharge from field tiles and surface drainage. OPEN CHANNELS do not
include grassed swales within farm fields under agricultural production, which
are ephemeral in nature.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM). The point on the bank or shore up to which
the presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark, such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristic.
   OVERLAND FLOW PATH. A design feature of the major stormwater system which
carries flows in excess of the minor stormwater system design capacity in an
open channel or swale, or as sheet flow or weir flow over a feature designed to
withstand the particular erosive forces involved.
   OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. The Village Planning and Zoning Commission (PZC). See §
57.319.
   PARCEL. All contiguous land under common ownership or control including
right(s)-of-way to be dedicated in conjunction with the proposed development.
   PERENNIAL STREAMS. Riverine watercourses whose thalwag generally intersects
the groundwater table elevation and flows throughout the year.
   PERMITTING AUTHORITY. The Village of Romeoville.
   PLAN. The Will County Comprehensive Countywide Stormwater Management Plan,
adopted by the County Board on October 13, 1998, as amended from time to time.
   POND. Any inland water body, fed by spring or surface water flow that is not
a lake.
   PRIMARY GRAVITY OUTLET. The outlet structure designed to meet the release
rate requirements of this chapter.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer registered in the state, under the
Illinois Professional Engineering Practice Act (225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.), as
amended.
   PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered in the state, under
the Illinois Land Surveyors Act (225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.), as amended.
   PROPERTY. Contiguous land under single ownership or control.
   PUBLIC BODIES OF WATER. All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft in whole or in part for commercial uses and purposes
and all lakes, rivers and streams, which in their natural conditions were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the state, together with all bayous, sloughs, backwaters and
submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of water directly
accessible thereto.
   PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT. A flood control project, which will be
operated and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing
buildings and structures, which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of
the existing and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this
definition shall preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing in
whole or in part of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not
public agencies.
   PUBLIC FLOOD EASEMENT. An easement acceptable to the appropriate
jurisdictional body that meets the regulations of the IDNR/OWR, the Department
and the community, and that provides legal assurances that all areas subject to
flooding in the created backwater of the development will remain open to allow
flooding.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL. A person trained in one or more of the disciplines
of biology, geology, soil science, engineering or hydrology whose training and
experience ensure a competent analysis and assessment of stream, lake, pond and
wetland conditions and impacts.
   RECORD DRAWINGS. Drawings prepared, signed and sealed by a registered
professional engineer or registered land surveyor representing the final “as-
built” record of the actual in-place elevations, location of structures and
topography.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is: built on a singe
chassis; 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection; designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
a temporary living quarters for recreational camping travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED STRUCTURAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the
state as a structural engineer.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. Regulatory floodways are those portions of the
floodplain depicted on maps as floodway and recognized by the IDNR/OWR for
regulatory purposes.
   REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain as depicted on maps recognized by
FEMA, as defining the limits of the SFHA.
   REMOVAL. Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete extraction or
killing by spraying.
   RETENTION FACILITY. A retention facility stores stormwater runoff without a
gravity release.
   RIVERINE. Related to, formed by or resembling a channel (including creeks
and rivers).
   RUNOFF. The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within a
tributary drainage basin that exceeds the infiltration capacity of the soils of
that basin.
   SEASONAL HIGH GROUNDWATER TABLE. The upper limits of the soil temporarily
saturated with water, being usually associated with spring wetness conditions.
This may be indicated by soil mottles with a Munsell color of two chroma or
less.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits hydraulically moved soils, debris
and other materials either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
stormwater drainage systems.
   SEDIMENT TRAP. A structure or area that allows for the temporary deposit and
removal or disposal of sediment materials from stormwater runoff.
   SEEPAGE. The movement of drainable water through soil and rock.
   SETBACK. The horizontal distance between any portion of a structure or any
development activity and the ordinary high water mark of a perennial or
intermittent stream, the ordinary high water mark of a lake or pond or the edge
of a wetland, measured from the structure’s or development’s closest point to
the ordinary high water mark or edge.
   SITE. A parcel on which development is proposed or has occurred. The area of
the SITE shall include right-of-way to be dedicated in conjunction with the
development.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the village which permits
development, or limited development, of a site in accordance with approved
plans and in accordance with this chapter.
   (SFHA) SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. An area having special flood, mudslide or
mudflow or flood-related erosion hazards, and which area is shown on an FHBM or
FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, AH, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M or E.
   STORMWATER FACILITY. All ditches, channels, conduits, bridges, culverts,
levees, ponds, natural and human-made impoundments, wetlands, riparian
environment, tile, swales, sewers or other natural or artificial structures or
measures which serve as a means of draining surface and subsurface water from
land.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT. The permit issued under §§
57.175 through
57.177,
57.190 through
57.192,
57.205 through
57.210 and
57.225 through
57.229.
   STRUCTURE. The results of a built change to the land constructed on or below
the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home; or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than 180 days unless they are fully licensed and ready for
highway use.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. If any one of the following three conditions
applies when work is performed on an existing building, then the work will be
classified as a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
      (1)   An improvement made to a building whose cost is equal to or exceeds
50% of the buildings’ market value before the improvement;
      (2)   Reconstruction or repair of a building, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building before reconstruction or
repair; or
      (3)   Additions to an existing building whose cost equals or exceeds 50%
of the market value of a structure, or increases the floor area by more than
20%. Note that if a building is substantially improved, then the entire
building must comply with the building protection standards.
   SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE. The removal of excess soil water to control water table
levels at predetermined elevations for structural, environmental or other
reasons in areas already developed or being developed for agricultural,
residential, industrial, commercial or recreational uses.
   SUBSURFACE WATER. Water beneath the ground or pavement surface. Sometimes
referred to as GROUNDWATER or SOIL WATER.
   T FACTOR. The soil loss tolerance. It is defined as the maximum amount of
erosion at which the quality of a soil as a medium for plant growth can be
maintained. Erosion losses are estimated by Universal Soil Loss Equation (USLE)
and Revised Universal Soil Loss Equation (RUSLE).
   TECHNICAL MANUAL. The manual adopted by the County Board, which refers to
this chapter and provides additional explanations and examples.
   THALWAG. A line along the lowest point in a channel.
   TRANSITION SECTION. Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from
a narrow cross-section to a wide cross-section, or vice versa.
   USABLE SPACE. Space used for dwelling, storage, utilities or other
beneficial purposes, including, without limitation, basements.
   VEGETATION. All plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, mosses and grasses.
   WATER TABLE. The upper limit of a free water surface in a saturated soil or
underlying material.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. As defined by the United States Army Corps of
Engineers in their Federal Methodology for the Regulation of Wetlands. For
purposes of this chapter, waters of the United States include wetlands, lakes,
rivers, streams, creeks, bogs, fens and ponds. WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES do
not include maintained stormwater facilities.
   WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, slough, gulch, draw, ditch, channel, conduit, culvert,
swale, grass waterway, gully, ravine, wash or natural or human-made
drainageway, which has a definite channel, bed and banks, in or into which
stormwater runoff and floodwater flow either regularly or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. All land area drained by, or contributing water to, the same
stream, lake, stormwater facility or draining to a point.
   WATERSHED BENEFIT. (See NET WATERSHED BENEFIT).
   WATERSHED CHARACTERISTICS. Watershed characteristics include land use,
physiology, habitat, climate, drainage system and community profile.
   WATERSHED PLAN. A study and evaluation of an individual drainage basin’s
stormwater management, floodplain management, water quality and flood control
needs and capabilities.
   WETLAND. An area of land, which meets the criteria as defined in current
federal methodology recognized by the United States Army Corps of Engineers
regardless of whether or not the area of land is subject to the regulatory
authority of United States Army Corps of Engineers or any other regulatory
authority.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Romeoville, Will County, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 160.002) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 19-1532, passed
1-16-2019)
**** REQUIREMENTS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
GENERAL INFORMATION ****
§ 57.015 OTHER APPLICABLE SECTIONS.
   All developments shall meet the requirements specified for general
stormwater development (§§
57.030 through
57.036), site runoff (§§
57.050 through
57.059), sediment and erosion control (§§
57.105 through
57.118) and performance security and maintenance (§§
57.240 through
57.245).
(Prior Code, § 160.010) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.016 APPLICABILITY OF SITE RUNOFF STORAGE REQUIREMENTS (DETENTION).
   All developments shall comply with the site runoff storage requirements
provided in §§
57.070 through
57.079 in which:
   (A)   More than two single-family structures or one multi-family structure
are to be constructed on a parcel or site more than one acre in size;
   (B)   Nonresidential land use is to be constructed on a parcel or site more
than one acre in size;
   (C)   Existing multi-family or nonresidential land uses on a site one acre
or more in size, on which new development after the effective date of this
chapter in the aggregate exceeds 25,000 square feet;
   (D)   Roadway developments in rights-of-way under the ownership or control
of a unit of local governments when the contiguous area of new roadway
construction (excluding previously paved areas) exceeds two acres;
   (E)   The developer of a commercial or industrial redevelopment may request
that a fee-in-lieu of detention be approved provided that all of the following
are demonstrated to the sole satisfaction of the Administrator:
      (1)   The drainage plan will not increase existing flood damages; and
      (2)   The drainage plan provides a net benefit in water quality compared
to the existing development.
   (F)   The Administrator shall determine the appropriate fee to be collected
as defined in §
57.350, and their decision in the matter shall be considered final.
(Prior Code, § 160.011) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.017 EXEMPTIONS FROM SITE RUNOFF STORAGE REQUIREMENTS (DETENTION).
   Site runoff storage is not required under the following circumstances:
   (A)   Direct discharge industrial sites; and
   (B)   Non-industrial direct discharge sites 160 acres or less having the
following minimum river frontage:
 
Site Area       Required Frontage
0 to 2 acres    50 feet
Up to 5 acres   100 feet
Up to 10 acres  150 feet
Up to 40 acres  200 feet
Up to 80 acres  350 feet
Up to 160 acres 500 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 160.012) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** GENERAL STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 57.030 REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL DEVELOPMENT.
   No development shall:
   (A)   Result in any new or additional expense to any person other than the
developer for flood protection;
   (B)   Increase flood elevations or decrease flood conveyance capacity
upstream or downstream of the area under the ownership or control of the
developer. This requirement shall not prohibit the removal or reduction of
built obstructions to flow, such as increasing culvert capacity or lowering
roadway elevations; and
   (C)   (1)   Increase runoff rates (from the ten-year event up to the 100-
year event) to any downstream properties unless the developer can demonstrate
that the increased runoff rates can be safely conveyed via storm sewers,
ditches (if allowed) or overland flow paths to the next downstream receiving
stream, lake or pond.
      (2)   If the developer is significantly raising runoff rates to
downstream properties and cannot demonstrate downstream conveyance capacity,
some amount of on-site stormwater management may be required in order to reduce
the proposed runoff rate down to existing runoff rates.
(Prior Code, § 160.013) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.031 REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL SUBDIVISIONS AND COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENTS.
   All developments shall:
   (A)   Extend the storm sewer system through the proposed development to
serve upstream properties in the natural drainage area. The storm sewer system
should reflect the ultimate development of the drainage area;
   (B)   Provide a stormwater drainage system that consists of a minor drainage
system, a major drainage system and an emergency overland flow route;
   (C)   The storm sewer drainage system is assumed to consist of such
components as sewers, channels, swales, natural drainageways, inlets, catch
basins, manholes, streets, detention/retention basins and other necessary
facilities;
   (D)   The engineering plans shall have a certification by a registered
professional engineers as follows:
“I,                        , hereby certify that adequate stormwater storage
and drainage capacity has been provided by this development, such that surface
water from the development will not be diverted onto and cause damage to
adjacent property for storms up to and including the one hundred (100) year
event, and that the design plans are in compliance with all applicable federal,
state, county, and village laws and ordinances.”
   (E)   The storm sewer system shall be entirely separate from the sanitary
sewer system;
   (F)   (1)   Storm sewers shall be designed to convey the peak flow from a
ten-year rainfall event with a hydraulic grade line that is entirely within the
pipe. Rainfall frequency data shall be obtained from
Chapter 57, Appendix A, Table 1. Storm sewers and outfalls shall be designed to
function at their design capacity during flooding conditions on the receiving
stream or other body of water.
      (2)   At the discretion of the Stormwater Administrator, private
industrial storm sewer may be designed with the hydraulic grade line up to one
foot below the rim elevation. Any sewer that conveys off-site flows or flow
from more than one acre of tributary area are not allowed to surcharge with
this condition.
   (G)   The storm sewers shall be a minimum of 12 inches in diameter and shall
be constructed of reinforced concrete pipe only;
   (H)   No ditch system shall be permitted. The minor drainage system shall be
constructed so that the drainage from each lot or parcel is conveyed entirely
through storm sewer pipe;
   (I)   The major drainage system may be permitted to flow over roadways, rear
yard and side yard swales and other open conveyances as long as the maximum
depth of ponding or flow is no more than nine inches at any location and the
maximum water surface elevation is a least one foot below the lowest opening of
any nearby structure. The design of the major drainage system may account for
the minor drainage system (storm sewers) to be fully functional. No flow is
allowed over the road, perpendicular to the roadway;
   (J)   Rear yard and side yard swales shall meet the following conditions:
      (1)   The maximum side slopes shall be a six to one (6:1) ratio; and
      (2)   The appropriate easements are provided, a minimum of 20 feet wide.
   (K)   Inlets on roadways shall be located as necessary to collect surface
water, but spacing shall not exceed a maximum of 400 feet. Catch basins shall
be placed before a storm sewer enters a manhole. Manholes shall be located at
the junction of two or more storm sewer pipes or at any change in grade
alignment or size of pipe. Maximum spacing of manholes shall be 400 feet;
   (L)   All storm sewers shall use materials, and be installed in the manner
meeting or exceeding the requirements, standards, and specifications contained
in the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois, the most current edition as amended, supplemented and amended by the
Village Engineer. These standards and specifications, with the modifications,
amendments and amplifications of the Village Engineer, are available for
purchase or inspection and review in the office of the Village Engineer;
   (M)   All public storm sewer must be televised with said recording submitted
to the Department of Public Works prior to acceptance of all projects; and
   (N)   At the discretion of the Stormwater Administrator, dual inlets are
required at low points in public roads.
(Prior Code, § 160.014) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 19-1532, passed
1-16-2019)
§ 57.032 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Stormwater facilities shall be functional before building permits are issued
for residential and nonresidential subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 160.015) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.033 SINGLE PARCEL DEVELOPMENTS.
   Stormwater facilities shall be functional where practicable for single
parcel developments before building construction begins.
(Prior Code, § 160.016) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.034 OVERLAND FLOW PATHS.
   (A)   The development shall have an overland flow path at the downstream
limit of the property that will pass the base flood flow without increasing
damage to structures or property. Overland flow paths internal to the site
shall be considered as part of the major stormwater system and shall be
designed for conveyance of the base flood (critical duration) and shall be a
minimum of one cfs per tributary acre without damage to structures. If the
storm sewer pipe and inlet sized for the base flood can be constructed in lieu
of providing an overland flow path as a part of the major drainage system, then
the overland flow path shall be considered an emergency overland flow path and
it shall not be considered a part of the major stormwater system but must still
meet the protection of buildings criteria in §
57.075.
   (B)   For all overland flow routes, whether a part of the major drainage
system or an emergency overland flow route, the water surface elevation for
determining the FPE (flood protection elevation) shall be calculated assuming
that the storm sewers are inoperable.
   (C)   Structures of any kind, including fences, shall not be permitted in
overland flow paths draining more than 20 acres, unless the structures are
otherwise permissible and certified by a professional engineer or professional
landscape architect that the proposed structure will not cause any adverse
upstream impacts as a result of blocking or impeding the flow of stormwater. A
fence, if permitted, shall conform to the village’s fence ordinance provisions
for fences located in drainage easements as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 160.017) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.035 PROTECTION OF BUILDINGS.
   All usable space in new buildings or added to existing buildings
hydraulically connected to a major stormwater system, site runoff storage
facility or overland flow path shall be elevated, floodproofed or otherwise
protected to at least the FPE.
(Prior Code, § 160.018) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.036 DEPRESSIONAL STORAGE.
   (A)   The function of existing on-site depressional storage shall be
preserved for both on-site and off-site tributary flows in addition to required
detention.
   (B)   When depressional storage is removed, it must be compensated for in
the site runoff storage facility at a one to one ratio (1:1); provided that
off-site areas tributary to the existing depressional storage are routed
through the site runoff storage facility.
   (C)   This requirement is in addition to the site runoff storage required in
§§
57.070 through
57.079.
   (D)   The Administrator may allow the function of depressional storage to be
preserved if the applicant performs detailed pre- and post-project hydrologic
and hydraulic modeling to identify the effect of the depressional storage on
discharges over a range of rainfall frequencies.
(Prior Code, § 160.019) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 19-1532, passed
1-16-2019)
**** SITE RUNOFF REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 57.050 STORMWATER FACILITY DISCHARGES.
   Stormwater facilities shall be required and designed so that runoff exits
the site at a point where it exited prior to the subject development and in a
manner such that flows will not increase flood damage to adjacent property
except when otherwise approved by the Administrator. Concentrated discharges
from new developments must enter conveyance systems capable of carrying the
design flow rate without increasing flood damages or maintenance costs
downstream.
(Prior Code, § 160.020) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.051 MINOR STORMWATER SYSTEM CRITERIA.
   Minor stormwater systems shall be sized to convey runoff from the tributary
watershed under fully developed conditions for the ten-year storm event. Minor
stormwater systems shall be enclosed systems (e.g., storm sewers) unless
otherwise approved by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 160.021) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.052 MAJOR STORMWATER SYSTEM CRITERIA.
   Major stormwater systems shall be sized to carry the base flood without
causing additional flood damage. Maximum flow depths shall be nine inches in
streets, parking lots and driveways, except that parking lots and driveways
intended for access only by commercial trucks may permit maximum flow depths of
12 inches. The maximum depth of flow in non-paved drainage easements shall be
12 inches. The tail water used for the major drainage system shall be the ten-
year water surface elevation in the receiving system or, in the case of
stormwater detention facilities, the two-year design water surface elevation
plus one foot.
(Prior Code, § 160.022) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.053 EXISTING SUBSURFACE AND SURFACE DRAINAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Stormwater systems shall properly incorporate and be compatible with
existing subsurface and surface drainage systems including agricultural
systems. Designs shall not cause damage to the existing drainage system(s) or
the existing adjacent or tributary land including those with agricultural uses.
   (B)   The following principles and requirements shall be observed in the
design.
      (1)   Off-site outfall. Agricultural subsurface and surface drainage
systems shall be evaluated with regard to their capacity and capability to
properly convey low flow groundwater and site runoff storage facility release
without damage to downstream structure and land use on the adjacent property.
If the outfall drain tile and surface drainage systems prove to be inadequate,
it will be necessary to modify the existing systems or construct new systems
which will not conflict with the existing systems and will not impact the
existing agricultural land use. Existing subsurface systems shall only be used
with extended detention design and at the discretion of the Administrator.
      (2)   On-site. Agricultural drainage systems shall be located and
evaluated on-site. All existing on-site agricultural drain tile not serving a
beneficial use shall be abandoned by trench removal prior to other development
and recorded on record plans. If any existing drain tiles continue to upland
watersheds, the developer must maintain drainage service during construction
until new sewers can be installed for a permanent connection.
      (3)   Off-site tributary. Existing drainage systems shall be evaluated
with regard to existing capabilities and reasonable future expansion
capacities. All existing tributary drain tiles shall be incorporated into the
new conduits including observation structures located at the property limits,
shall provide a free flow discharge and shall not allow surface runoff to enter
the system.
      (4)   Subsurface systems. New roadway construction shall preserve
existing subsurface systems within the right-of-way. Inspection wells shall be
placed at the right-of-way (ROW) and tiles found to not be flowing between
inspection wells at the end of the construction shall be replaced.
(Prior Code, § 160.023) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.054 DESIGN RUNOFF RATE.
   Design runoff rates for conveyance (i.e., pipe design) may be calculated
using the rational method for drainage areas of less than 20 acres. For
drainage areas greater than 20 acres, the Administrator may require the use of
hydrograph routing.
(Prior Code, § 160.024) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.055 DESIGN RAINFALL.
   Any design runoff rate calculation method for conveyance shall use the data
presented in Table 1: Will County Stormwater Technical Guidance Manual Rainfall
Depths and Intensities. (See
Chapter 57, Appendix A.)
(Prior Code, § 160.025) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.056 STORMWATER SYSTEMS EASEMENTS.
   (A)   For subdivision projects, the minor, major and emergency stormwater
systems shall be located within easements or rights-of-way explicitly providing
for public access for maintenance of such facilities. For all other projects
requiring a permit, easements are required for public access for maintenance of
stormwater facilities only for new construction or modifications involving
components of a drainage system that conveys runoff from off-site properties.
   (B)   Easements and rights-of-way shall be of sufficient width. Storm sewers
shall be installed at such locations therein as to permit open cut
installation, maintenance and repair within the confines of the easement or
right-of-way without relocation or other unreasonable interference with other
public utilities located therein, and so as to meet the following minimum
standards: 15 feet in width, plus, for storm sewers in excess of 24 inches in
diameter, two additional feet for each 12 inches or portion thereof of
additional storm sewer diameter rounded up to the next multiple of five feet.
Sewers with depths of greater than 15 feet may require additional width as
determined by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 160.026) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.057 FLOW DEPTHS.
   Maximum flow depths for new transverse stream crossings shall not exceed the
crown of the road during the base flood condition. The maximum flow depth on a
roadway shall not exceed nine inches at the curb line for flow parallel to the
roadway. For flow parallel to a new roadway, the product of the flow depth (in
feet) and velocity (in feet per second) shall not exceed four for the base
flood condition.
(Prior Code, § 160.027) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.058 DIVERSION OF FLOW TO ANOTHER WATERSHED.
   Transfers of waters between watersheds (diversions) shall be prohibited
except when such transfers will not violate the provisions of §
57.030 and are otherwise lawful. Watersheds for purpose of regulation under
this section shall be the major watershed divides as defined in the county
plan.
(Prior Code, § 160.028) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.059 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The village strongly encourages stormwater quality management
within the village.
      (2)   The developments are encouraged to incorporate the following:
         (a)   All best management practices as may be required pursuant to the
United States Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as amended;
         (b)   Manage parcels as unified sites by incorporating watershed-based
planning;
         (c)   Create designs that promote a healthy aquatic ecology, provide
for sustainability, minimize maintenance and human intervention; and
         (d)   Treat stormwater as a multiple-use resource.
   (B)   The village does reserve the right to require stormwater quality best
management practices at a particular site if the Administrator deems that the
discharge is to a sensitive ecological area or that the intended use of the
property produces a particularly detrimental water quality of the discharge.
(Prior Code, § 160.029) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** SITE RUNOFF STORAGE REQUIREMENTS
(DETENTION/EXTENDED DETENTION) ****
§ 57.070 RELEASE RATE.
   (A)   If no release rate is specified in an adopted watershed plan, then
sufficient flood storage shall be provided so that the site will not discharge
at a rate greater than 0.15 cfs/acre of development during and after a rainfall
event with a 100-year frequency except for sites exempted in §
57.017. Unless exempted in §
57.017, sites shall not discharge at a rate greater than 0.04 cfs/acre of
development during and after a rainfall event with a two-year frequency.
   (B)   This area of hydrologic disturbance on the site shall be used to
calculate the required site runoff storage volume. The on-site watershed area
tributary to the point of discharge shall be used to calculate the allowable
release rate for the site runoff storage facility, which shall be the maximum
release rate allowed considering only the on-site watershed area runoff.
(Prior Code, § 160.030) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.071 DESIGN METHODS.
   (A)   (1)   Event hydrograph routing methods shall be used to calculate
design runoff volumes for site runoff facilities. The methods must be HEC-1
(SCS methodology), HEC-HMS, TR-20 or TR-55 tabular method. For sites of 40
acres or more, the methods used must be acceptable to FEMA.
      (2)   Event methods shall incorporate the following assumptions:
         (a)   Antecedent moisture condition equals two;
         (b)   Appropriate Huff rainfall distribution; and
         (c)   Twenty-four-hour duration storm with a 1% probability (100-year
frequency) of occurrence in any one year as specified by the State Water Survey
(Bulletin 70) Northeast Sectional Rainfall Statistics.
   (B)   Figure 1, based upon generic hydrograph curves developed by the County
Stormwater Management Committee, may be used for sites of 20 acres or less when
acceptable to the Administrator. The rational method is not acceptable. (See
Chapter 57, Appendix E.)
(Prior Code, § 160.031) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.072 EXISTING RELEASE RATE LESS THAN ALLOWABLE.
   For sites where the undeveloped release rate is less than the maximum
release rate in §
57.070, the developed release rate and corresponding site runoff storage volume
shall be based on the existing undeveloped release rate for the development.
(Prior Code, § 160.032) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.073 DOWNSTREAM WATER SURFACE ELEVATIONS.
   All hydrologic and hydraulic computations must utilize appropriate
assumptions for downstream water surface elevations, from low flow through the
base flood elevation, considering the likelihood of concurrent flood events.
(Prior Code, § 160.033) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.074 EXTENDED DETENTION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirements of this section will apply only when an existing
agricultural land use is downstream of and adjacent to a site runoff storage
facility outlet. The runoff from a 0.75-inch rainfall event over the
hydraulically connected impervious area of the new development shall be stored
below the elevation of the primary gravity outlet (extended detention) of the
site runoff storage facility. The facility may be designed to allow for
evapotransporation or infiltration of this volume into a subsurface drainage
system and shall not be conveyed through a direct positive connection to
downstream areas.
   (B)   The hydraulically connected impervious area used in the calculation of
required extended detention volume may be reduced by the Administrator if the
soils are prepared to maximize infiltration and deep rooted grasses or other
plants selected for their ability to promote infiltration or water absorption
are planted in areas appropriately dedicated. The reduction in hydraulically
connected impervious area used in the calculation shall be equal to the area of
the development meeting the above soils/native planting requirement.
   (C)   Subsurface drainage systems may be designed as a component of the
extended detention portion of the detention basin to assist in infiltration in
accordance with the following criteria.
      (1)   The extended detention volume shall be discharged at a rate no
greater than that required to empty the calculated extended detention volume
within five days of the storm event.
      (2)   No subsurface drainage pipe shall be located within ten feet of
drainage pipes directly connected to the detention basin.
      (3)   For purposes of meeting the maximum subsurface drainage discharge
requirements, flow control orifices and weirs may be used.
      (4)   All design extended detention volume shall be provided above the
seasonal high groundwater table or the invert elevation of the groundwater
control system.
      (5)   Farm field tile shall not be considered a subsurface drainage
system.
(Prior Code, § 160.034) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.075 SITE RUNOFF STORAGE FACILITY DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Storage facilities shall be designed and constructed with the following
characteristics.
   (A)   The site runoff storage facility shall provide one foot of freeboard
above the design high water elevation.
   (B)   The storage facilities shall be accessible and easily maintained. Side
slopes above the NWL shall not exceed four to one (4:1) (horizontal to
vertical) under any circumstances. For storage facilities with a bounce of
greater than four feet, the maximum side slope shall not exceed five to one (5:
1) (horizontal to vertical). For industrial or commercial areas that do not
adjoin schools, residential or planned residential areas, the Administrator may
approve four to one (4:1) side slopes for bounces up to six feet. The
Administrator may require that access roads or paths on the top of berms shall
be provided with an H10 design load rating and meeting village design criteria.
   (C)   Storage facilities shall facilitate sedimentation and catchment of
floating material. Unless specifically approved by the Administrator, concrete
lined low-flow ditches shall not be used in detention basins.
   (D)   Storage facilities shall minimize impacts of stormwater runoff on
water quality by incorporating best management practices.
   (E)   Storage facilities shall maximize the normal flow distance between
detention inlets and outlets, to the greatest extent possible.
   (F)   Storage facilities shall be designed such that the existing conditions
pre-development peak runoff rate from the 100-year, critical duration rainfall
will not be exceeded assuming the primary restrictor is blocked.
   (G)   Storage facilities with single pipe outlets shall have a minimum
inside diameter of 12 inches. If design release rates necessitate a smaller
outlet, structures such as perforated risers or flow control orifices shall be
used.
   (H)   The following criteria are proposed as moderately conservative
standards for design of stormwater basins within the village. If a developer
wishes to exceed the standards, it is recommended that they (via their
landscape contractor/designer) bear the burden of proof that the landscape will
be successful. The following limits of acceptable fluctuation and drawdown
times are based on best professional judgment for landscape treatments typical
to wet and dry stormwater basin designs.
      (1)   Wet bottom pond.
Depth                      Over 25% of the bottom area at least 10 feet deep
                           Natural, ornamental hybrid, low maintenance turf and
                           turfgrass (depending on site conditions and
Landscape options          adjacent/adjoining land uses); public access via
                           stone outcroppings, groomed areas and the like are
                           recommended
Maximum area               No maximum
                           100-year: 4 feet - residential (industrial/
Maximum bounce             commercial may be greater based on approval by
                           Administrator)
                           2-year: 1 feet
Maximum drawdown time      100-year: above NWL by 0.5 feet for 72 hours
                           2-year: above NWL by 0.5 feet for 36 hours
                           Freeboard elevation to 2-year water level: 4:1
                           2-year water level to NWL: 8:1
Maximum slopes             NWL to 1.5 feet below NWL: 20:1 (safety shelf)
                           >1.5 feet below NWL: 2:1
                           Freeboard to 1.5 feet below NWL: 5:1 average maximum
Minimum area               1.0 acre at NWL
                           0.5 to 1.5 feet inundation at NWL, 10 feet average
Safety shelf               width (variable 8 to 12 feet), with 25% of the
                           shoreline 2 feet shorter than maximum width
                           Natural vegetation (shall be used unless otherwise
                           approved); armoring (conditioned upon village review
Shoreline protection       and approval); biotechnical stabilization (depending
                           on site-specific conditions); erosion control
                           measures
                           Maximize distance between inlets and outlets; no
                           low-flow channel to be provided; energy dissipation
Water quality enhancements measures at outlets; measures, such as aerators,
                           cascading streams, water falls and the like are
                           recommended for aesthetic appeal and to promote
                           water circulation and aeration
 
      (2)   Naturalized detention basin.
                           Ranging from 0.5 to 5 feet (average 3 feet); at
Depth                      least 5% of the area below NWL having pockets up to
                           5 feet deep
                           Natural, ornamental hybrid and low maintenance turf;
                           public access via stone outcroppings, groomed areas
Landscape options          and the like are recommended. A planting and
                           maintenance report, provided by a recognized
                           wetlands firm, must be submitted and approved.
Maximum area               No maximum
                           100-year: 4 feet residential (industrial/commercial
Maximum bounce             may be greater based on approval by Administrator)
                           2-year: 1 feet
Maximum drawdown time      100-year: above NWL by 0.5 feet for 72 hours
                           2-year: above NWL by 0.5 feet for 36 hours
                           Freeboard elevation to 2-year water level: 4:1
                           2-year water level to 0.5 feet below NWL: 8:1
Maximum slopes             0.5 to 1.5 feet below NWL: variable 8:1 to 12:1
                           (safety ledge)
                           >1.5 feet below NWL: 2:1
                           Freeboard to 1.5 feet below NWL: 5:1 average maximum
Minimum area               8,000 square feet at NWL
Minimum topsoil            18 inches
                           Natural vegetation; biotechnical stabilization
Shoreline protection       (depending on site-specific conditions); erosion
                           control measures
                           Maximize distance between inlets and outlets; no
                           low-flow channel to be provided; energy dissipation
                           measures at outlets; measures, such as aerators,
Water quality enhancements cascading streams, water falls and the like are
                           strongly recommended to maintain cooler water
                           temperatures, promote water circulation and aeration
                           and provide aesthetic appeal
 
      (3)   Dry basin design.
 
Maximum area   8,000 square feet, unless approved by the Administrator
Maximum bounce 4.0 feet residential (industrial/commercial may be greater based
               on approval by Administrator)
Minimum area   No minimum
Safety shelf   Not applicable
 
(Prior Code, § 160.035) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 19-1532, passed
1-16-2019)
§ 57.076 SITE RUNOFF STORAGE FACILITY REQUIREMENTS WITHIN THE REGULATORY
FLOODPLAIN.
   Storage facilities located within the regulatory floodplain shall:
   (A)   Conform to all applicable requirements specified in §§
57.130 through
57.136 and
57.150 through
57.163;
   (B)   Store the required amount of site runoff to meet the release rate
requirement under all stream flow and backwater conditions in the receiving
stream up to the ten-year flood elevation;
   (C)   Detention volume provided by enlarging existing regulatory floodplain
storage without providing a structure controlling discharge (on-stream
detention) will be allowed only as a variance. The applicant must demonstrate
that flood damages are not increased and the development will not increase
flood flows for both the two-year and 100-year floods on the stream with
developed conditions on the site; and
   (D)   The Administrator may approve designs which can be shown by detailed
hydrologic and hydraulic analysis to provide a net watershed benefit not
otherwise realized by strict application of the requirements in divisions (A)
through (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 160.036) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.077 SITE RUNOFF STORAGE FACILITY REQUIREMENTS WITHIN THE REGULATORY
FLOODWAY.
   Storage facilities located within the regulatory floodway shall:
   (A)   Meet the requirements for locating storage facilities in the
regulatory floodplain;
   (B)   Be evaluated by performing hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
consistent with the standards and requirements for any adopted watershed plans;
and
   (C)   Provide a net watershed benefit.
(Prior Code, § 160.037) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.078 OFF-SITE FACILITIES.
   Site runoff storage facilities may be located off-site if the following
conditions are met:
   (A)   The off-site storage facility meets all of the requirements of §§
57.015 through
57.017,
57.030 through
57.036,
57.050 through
57.059 
57.070 through
57.079 and
57.090 through
57.094;
   (B)   Adequate storage capacity in the off-site facility is dedicated to the
development; and
   (C)   The development includes means to convey stormwater to the off-site
storage facility.
(Prior Code, § 160.038) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.079 CROSS-STREAM STRUCTURES FOR SITE RUNOFF STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Structures constructed across the channel to impound water to meet detention
requirements shall be prohibited on any perennial stream unless part of a
public flood control project with a net watershed benefit. Those streams
appearing as blue on a USGS quadrangle map shall be assumed perennial unless
better data is obtained. All cross-stream structures for the purpose of
impounding water to provide detention in all cases on perennial and
intermittent streams must demonstrate that they will not cause short-term or
long-term stream channel instability.
(Prior Code, § 160.039) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS FOR AGRICULTURAL LAND USE
INCLUDING CROPLANDS, PASTURE LANDS AND FARMSTEADS ****
§ 57.090 APPLICABILITY.
   Regulations under this section apply only to croplands, pasturelands,
farmsteads and outbuildings associated with those agricultural practices.
Compliance with the requirements of this subchapter shall be construed as
compliance with the stormwater ordinance for the above land uses and no further
regulation under the chapter will apply. Any other land use, including
greenhouses, nurseries, container grown plants, equestrian facilities, the sale
of agricultural products to the public or where commercial activities involving
the new construction of gravel or paved parking facilities or buildings whose
aggregate area is 25,000 square feet or more, are required to comply with all
applicable sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 160.040) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.091 CONSERVATION PLANNING AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   To comply with this section, landowners shall practice conservation
planning whose product shall be a management system, which addresses site
runoff, soil erosion and sediment control, surface and subsurface drainage. Any
acreage with a signed and approved NRCS conservation plan is exempt from the
requirements of this section and the chapter.
   (B)   Applicable approved practices include:
      (1)   Vegetated grass waterways;
      (2)   Contour buffer strips;
      (3)   Critical area planting and cover crops;
      (4)   Terrace ridges and diversions;
      (5)   Contour strip cropping;
      (6)   Contour fanning;
      (7)   Crop rotation;
      (8)   Conservation tillage and crop residue management; and
      (9)   Other standard practices for conservation planning in accordance
with the NRCS Field Office Technical Guide (current edition) or as otherwise
approved by the County NRCS District Conservationist or the County Agricultural
Administrator.
   (C)   The performance standard for conservation planning shall be a
management system which will develop a set of field practices which will reduce
the calculated actual soil loss to the “tolerable soil loss” (T) as calculated
by the revised universal soil loss equation for the actual site conditions.
Cropland tillage and resource management methods shall be consistent with the
Technical Guide Notice IL-108 and shall be considered evidence of compliance
with the “T” performance standard.
(Prior Code, § 160.041) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.092 DRAINAGE PRACTICES, REQUIREMENTS AND DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Drainage for agricultural purposes shall be consistent with those
practices identified as appropriate for “good husbandry,” given the soil types,
slopes and crops. An agricultural drainage system may consist of both
subsurface drainage systems and surface drainage systems. Where active drainage
districts maintain drainage systems, they shall be consulted on surface and
subsurface drainage within the district boundaries.
   (B)   Requirements applying to subsurface and surface drainage system shall
be as follows.
      (1)   Subsurface drainage systems. Drain tile systems shall be maintained
and constructed in accordance with subsurface drainage recommendations for the
appropriate soil drainage group as specified by the Illinois Drainage Guide,
University of Illinois Extension Service Circular No. 1226. Surface inlets into
the subsurface drainage system shall be allowed only to maintain good
husbandry. Where their use cannot be practicably avoided due to topography,
they shall be installed using flow controls such as orifices and perforated
risers with gravel filters and/or vegetative filters.
      (2)   Surface drainage systems. Surface drainage systems shall be
maintained and constructed in accordance with surface drainage recommendations
for the appropriate soil drainage group as specified by the Illinois Drainage
Guide, University of Illinois Extension Service Circular No. 1226. Surface
drainage systems shall be built with geotechnically stable slopes and the
surface when applicable shall be further stabilized utilizing the establishment
of cool and warm season grass mixes as identified in Field Office Technical
Guide (Illinois 108).
      (3)   Buffer strips. Open channels with a definable bed and banks shall
use buffer strips in order to reduce the amount of erosion occurring from the
conveyed flows as well as to help filter the runoff from the site into the
waterway. Buffer strips shall be a minimum of 15-feet wide from the top of bank
except where smaller widths are necessary due to site limitations and when
approved by the Administrator.
      (4)   Agricultural drainage systems. Agricultural drainage systems shall
also comply with all regulations regarding wetlands as enforced by federal,
state and local agencies.
(Prior Code, § 160.042) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.093 SEDIMENT CONTROL FOR OPEN CHANNELS.
   (A)   All open channel drainage systems shall maintain practices adjacent to
the open outlet channel that will reduce the transportation of sediment off-
site. Runoff from agricultural fields must pass through a sediment control
system prior to discharge into the open channel conveyance system.
   (B)   Approved sediment control systems may consist of the following:
      (1)   Vegetated buffer zones planted with permanent grasses appropriate
for soil stabilization and filtering;
      (2)   Grade control structures for over fall stabilization;
      (3)   Sediment traps adjacent to the stream channel; or
      (4)   Other standard practices for conservation planning in accordance
with the NRCS Field Office Technical Guide (current edition) or as otherwise
approved by the County NRCS District Conservationist or the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 160.043) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.094 MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION OF DRAINAGE SYSTEMS.
   Agricultural drainage systems shall be maintained so as to convey the
expected flows for good drainage practices. The existing agricultural surface
drainage systems shall not be enlarged unless such enlargement is consistent
with all other sections of this subchapter. Maintenance and construction of
subsurface drainage systems will not be subject to the requirements of other
sections of this chapter except as they are regulated by other agencies.
Maintenance projects by legally functioning drainage districts on existing
agricultural drainage systems will not be subject to further permitting
requirements under this chapter except as they relate to the jurisdiction of
other agencies.
(Prior Code, § 160.044) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** SEDIMENT AND EROSION CONTROL ****
§ 57.105 SITE PLANNING.
   (A)   Sediment and erosion control planning shall be part of the initial
site planning process. In planning the development of the site, the applicant
shall consider the susceptibility of existing soils to erosion and topographic
features, such as steep slopes and stream corridors, which must be protected to
reduce the amount of sediment and erosion which occurs. Where appropriate,
existing vegetation shall be protected from disturbance during construction by
fencing or other means.
   (B)   In the planning process, the applicant shall also address the
following.
      (1)   For projects that involve phased construction, existing land cover
for those areas not under current development shall be addressed. If existing
land cover does not consist of an appropriate ground cover, then these phases
shall be planted temporarily to reduce erosion from idle land.
      (2)   In planning the sediment and erosion control strategy, preference
shall be given to reducing erosion rather than controlling sediment. In order
to accomplish this, the plan must carefully consider the construction sequence
of the phases so that the amount of land area exposed to erosive forces is the
minimum consistent with completing construction. In no case shall more than 20
acres of ground cover be disturbed at one time without permanent or temporary
stabilization at one time without unless authorized by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 160.055) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.106 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Specifications for erosion control measures shall be in accordance
with the Illinois Urban Manual or latest edition. Sediment and erosion control
planning shall be in accordance with “An Erosion and Sediment Control Best
Management Practice Manual” (revised June 2013) by the Urban Committee of the
Association of Illinois Soil and Water Conservation Districts (formerly the
Green Book) Sections 1 to 8. Where the Illinois Urban Manual supercedes
sections of the Green Book, the Illinois Urban Manual shall prevail.
   (B)   All projects that will result in the development of one acre or more,
except for agricultural projects regulated solely under §§
57.090 through
57.094, shall be required to obtain coverage under an appropriate NPDES permit.
The permittee shall certify to the village that all required permits, plans and
inspections have been prepared and maintained in accordance with the NPDES
permit. Specifically, the permittee shall prepare, and adhere to, a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) prepared for the development project that
shall meet of the conditions in the permit for SWPPPs. A copy of such plan
shall be maintained on the construction site at all times that workers are
present, and a copy of the permit, SWPPP and/or inspection logs shall be
provided to the village upon request. Failure to obtain an NPDES permit or to
comply with the conditions of an NPDES permit for the construction activity
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 160.056) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.107 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The runoff from disturbed areas shall not leave the development site
without first passing through sediment control facilities. This requirement
shall apply to all phases of construction and shall include an ongoing process
of implementation of measures and maintenance of those measures during both the
construction season and any construction shut down periods.
   (B)   The smallest practical area shall be exposed for the shortest
practical time during development. However, in no case shall more than 20 acres
be exposed at one time on a development unless a larger area is approved by the
Administrator.
   (C)   All applicants for developments of one acre or more shall submit an
application for an NPDES permit or a notice of intent (NOI) to be covered under
a general NPDES permit. A copy of any stormwater pollution prevention plan
(SWPPP) required by such permit shall be provided to the village prior to
commencement of development activities and a copy shall be kept on the
development site at all times.
(Prior Code, § 160.057) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.108 EXTENDED CONSTRUCTION SHUTDOWN PERIODS.
   The condition of the construction site for the winter shut down period shall
address proper sediment and erosion control early in the fall growing season so
that slopes and other bare earth areas may be stabilized with temporary and/or
permanent vegetative cover. All open areas that are to remain idle throughout
the winter shall receive temporary erosion control measures, including
temporary seeding, mulching and/or erosion control blanketing prior to the end
of the fall growing season. The areas to be worked beyond the end of the
growing season must incorporate soil stabilization measures that do not rely on
vegetative cover such as erosion control blankets and heavy mulching. In no
case shall requirements less than those required by IEPA NPDES permit ILR10
apply to projects disturbing more than one acre.
(Prior Code, § 160.058) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.109 HYDRAULIC AND HYDROLOGIC DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the hydraulic and hydrologic design of major erosion control
measures (those whose tributary drainage area is greater than three acres),
such as sediment basins and traps, diversions and the like, the design
frequency shall be commensurate with the risk of the design event being
exceeded.
   (B)   The following design frequencies shall be regarded as minimum design
frequencies for the construction period:
      (1)   For those projects whose construction period is less than six
months, then the storm event having a 50% chance (two-year event) of being
exceeded in any year shall be used for design purposes;
      (2)   For those projects whose construction period is greater than six
months but less than one year, the design frequency for major sediment basins
shall be a rainfall event with a 20% (five-year event) chance of being exceeded
in any one year; and
      (3)   For those construction projects expected to last more than one
year, major sediment basins shall be designed for a rainfall event with a 10%
(ten-year event) chance of being exceeded in any one year.
(Prior Code, § 160.059) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.110 “AS-NEEDED” PRACTICES ON THE PLANS.
   (A)   The sediment and erosion control plan shall designate a series of
practices which shall be implemented either at the direction of the permittee
or the permittee’s representative on-site or at the direction of the
Administrator should an inspection of the site indicate a deficiency in soil
and sediment erosion control measures.
   (B)   As a minimum, these measures shall include the following:
      (1)   Sedimentation basins;
      (2)   Sediment traps;
      (3)   Diversion swales;
      (4)   Silt fences;
      (5)   Temporary seeding;
      (6)   Mulching;
      (7)   Dust control; and
      (8)   Erosion control blankets.
(Prior Code, § 160.060) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.111 SEDIMENT AND EROSION CONTROL PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   Sediment and erosion control plans shall be in accordance with §§
57.175 through
57.177,
57.190 through
57.192,
57.205 through
57.210 and
57.225 through
57.229 but shall include the following.
   (A)   Detailed construction phasing plan identifying sediment and erosion
control measures to be in place for each phase shall be submitted prior to
stripping the site of existing vegetation or cover.
   (B)   Sediment and erosion control measures to be installed initially prior
to stripping existing vegetation or mass grading shall be indicated on the
plans.
   (C)   Permanent stabilization measures shall be indicated on a separate
plan.
   (D)   The expected two-year and ten-year runoff rates from all off-site
areas draining into the site shall be identified on the plan.
   (E)   Methods for conveying flows through the site during construction shall
be indicated. These methods must include the temporary and permanent
stabilization measures to be used to reduce velocity and erosion from flow
through the construction zone.
   (F)   A maintenance schedule of each measure used shall be indicated on the
plan. At a minimum, all sediment and erosion control measures on-site shall be
inspected weekly and also by the applicant’s designee or after a one-half inch
or greater rainfall event and any required repairs shall be made to keep these
measures functional as designed. All repairs and modifications shall be
reviewed by the Administrator or their designee.
(Prior Code, § 160.061) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.112 CONVEYANCE OF OFF-SITE FLOW.
   To the extent practicable, proposed ditches and waterways which are to
convey off-site flows through the site shall be stabilized upon construction.
Where new waterways are constructed, they shall be stabilized to the extent
practicable prior to their use to convey flood flows.
(Prior Code, § 160.062) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.113 STOCKPILES.
   Stockpiles of soil and other erodable or floatable building materials (sand,
limestone and the like) shall not be located in floodplains, overflow routes or
areas subject to frequent inundation. If a stockpile is to remain in place for
more than three days, then sediment and erosion control shall be provided for
the stockpile.
(Prior Code, § 160.063) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.114 STORM SEWER INLETS.
   Storm sewer inlets, catch basins and manholes with open lid grates shall be
protected with manufactured filtration devices developed to prevent sediments
from entering the drainage system. Silt screens, hay bales and filter fabrics
under storm grates are not allowed.
(Prior Code, § 160.064) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006) Penalty, see §
57.999
§ 57.115 CONSTRUCTION DEWATERING.
   Water pumped or which is otherwise discharged from the site during
construction dewatering shall be filtered and a means provided to reduce
erosion.
(Prior Code, § 160.065) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006) Penalty, see §
57.999
§ 57.116 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC/PRIVATE ROADWAYS.
   Graveled roads, access drives, parking areas of sufficient width and length
and vehicle wash down facilities, if necessary, shall be provided to prevent
soils from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any soil tracked onto
a public or private roadway shall be removed before the end of each workday or
sooner as directed by the authority maintaining the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 160.066) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006) Penalty, see §
57.999
§ 57.117 TEMPORARY STREAM CROSSINGS.
   Temporary stream crossings of intermittent and perennial streams used only
for and during construction shall be designed to convey a two-year flood
(minimum) or other flood event approved by the Administrator without
overtopping unless a more frequent design event is allowed by the
Administrator. The entire crossing shall be designed to withstand hydrodynamic
forces and erosive forces up to the base flood event without washing out.
Ephemeral streams may be crossed at temporary at-grade crossings; provided that
the crossing point is stabilized with materials resistive to the erosive forces
produced by runoff from the upstream drainage area, and the design is approved
by the Administrator. Temporary stream crossings shall be removed upon
completion of construction activities. All temporary stream crossing shall be
completely removed and the stream restored to its preconstruction condition
upon completion of construction. Restoration shall incorporate appropriate
vegetation consistent with the adjacent existing vegetation prior to
construction or in accordance with a restoration plan approved by the
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 160.067) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006) Penalty, see §
57.999
§ 57.118 INSPECTIONS.
   The Administrator or persons designated by the Administrator shall be
permitted on the site to inspect the erosion and sediment control measures and
records related to the NPDES permit at any time.
(Prior Code, § 160.068) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** PROTECTION OF SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS ****
§ 57.130 FLOODPLAINS AND FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth requirements for developments within
floodplains and floodways. In addition, developments in the SFHA draining more
than one square mile with no designated floodway must meet IDNR/OWR 17 I.A.C.
Part 3700 Rules. Projects which meet all the requirements and conditions to be
considered permitted under IDNR/OWR statewide, regional and general permits,
and are not in designated floodways, shall be considered to have met the
technical requirements of this subchapter. References to IDNR/OWR permits or
approvals in this section shall be construed as “their designee” where a
portion or all of their authority has been delegated.
   (B)   All development shall meet the requirements set forth in
Chapter 57, Appendix B, Table 2 - Summary of Applicable Chapter Section for
Development in Floodplains. The table is intended only as a guide to indicate
the applicable chapter sections for development in floodplains.
(Prior Code, § 160.080) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.131 FLOODPLAIN, REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN, BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) AND
REGULATORY FLOODWAY LOCATIONS.
   (A)   The BFE shall be delineated onto the site topography to establish the
regulatory floodplain area limits for regulation under this chapter. Regulatory
floodplains shall be delineated onto the site map from the current FEMA FIRM,
FBFM or LOMR and include those areas of the SFHA which are not regulatory
floodplains. The village is responsible for maintaining the effective FIS and a
list of FIRM panels listed in
Chapter 57, Appendix F (which may be updated from time to time).
   (B)   The BFE shall be:
      (1)   The elevation of the 100-year profile corresponding to the location
of the development as indicated in the flood profiles in the FEMA flood
insurance studies listed in Appendix F (which may be updated from time to
time);
      (2)   In the case of FEMA delineated “AH Zones,” the elevation noted on
the map shall be the BFE. In the case of FEMA delineated “AO Zones,” the BFE
shall be the depth number shown on the map added to the highest adjacent grade,
or at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
provided;
      (3)   (a)   When no BFE information exists and the upstream tributary
drainage area is 640 acres or greater, the BFE shall be determined using a site
specific floodplain study by a professional engineer using appropriate
hydrologic and hydraulic models as follows acceptable to FEMA and IDNR/OWR.
         (b)   Where a channel has a tributary drainage area of 640 acres or
more, the above analyses shall be submitted to the IDNR/OWR for concurrent
approval.
         (c)   For a non-riverine regulatory floodplain, the historic flood of
record plus three feet may be used for the BFE instead of performing a detailed
hydrologic and hydraulic study for developments of less than 40 acres, at the
discretion of the Administrator.
      (4)   For floodplains that are not regulatory, are not draining more than
640 acres and with no BFE determined, the Administrator may require a site-
specific floodplain study for the purpose of establishing an FPE for the
development. A site-specific study is required for all developments of 40 acres
or more that have regulatory floodplain on any portion of the site.
   (C)   The location of the regulatory floodway shall be as delineated on the
current effective regulatory maps maintain by the village. The location of the
regulatory floodway boundary shall be scaled onto the site plan using
references common to both the map and the plan (typically the centerlines of
adjacent roadways). Where an interpretation is needed to determine the exact
location of the regulatory floodway boundary, IDNR/OWR should be contacted.
   (D)   Note: If an area of the site is located in the regulatory floodway
that is higher than the BFE, that area is subject to the floodway standards of
§
57.134, including the appropriate use criteria, until such time as a LOMR is
received from the IDNR/OWR and FEMA.
   (E)   General criteria for analysis of flood elevations in the regulatory
floodway are as follows.
      (1)   The flood profiles, flows and data in the current effective FIS
must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the study data appears to
be in error or conditions have changed, FEMA and IDNR/OWR shall be contacted
for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data to use.
The Director and Administrator shall be copied on all related correspondence.
      (2)   If the BFE at the site of the proposed development is affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream with a larger drainage area, the
proposed development shall be shown to meet the requirements of this section
with the receiving stream at both the normal water and BFEs.
      (3)   If the applicant is informed by IDNR/OWR, local governments or a
private owner that a downstream or upstream restrictive bridge or culvert is
scheduled to be removed, reconstructed, modified or a regional flood control
project is scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the
next five years, the proposed development shall be analyzed and shown to meet
the requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the
expected flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control
project is built, removed or modified as applicable.
      (4)   If the appropriate use will result in a change in the regulatory
floodway location or a change in the BFE, the applicant shall submit the
information required to be issued a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR)
to IDNR/OWR and FEMA. A public notice inviting public comment on the proposed
change in the BFE or location of the regulatory floodway will be issued by
IDNR/OWR or its designee before a CLOMR is issued. Filling, grading, dredging
or excavating may take place upon issuance of a conditional approval from IDNR/
OWR and the Administrator. No further development activities shall take place
in the existing or proposed floodplain until a letter of map revision (LOMR) is
issued by FEMA unless such activities meet all the requirements of §
57.132. The Director shall be copied on all related correspondence.
      (5)   For those circumstances listed below and located in a regulatory
floodway, the following information shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their
review and concurrence:
         (a)   Analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed bridge, culvert
crossings and roadway approaches;
         (b)   An engineer’s determination that an existing bridge, culvert
crossing or approach road is not a source of flood damage and the analysis
indicating the proposed flood profile;
         (c)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage;
         (d)   Stormwater management permits to local units of government for
regulatory floodway and floodplain development; and
         (e)   IDNR/OWR will issue permits for any IDNR/OWR projects, dams and
the like all other state, federal or WCSMC or certified community projects.
(Prior Code, § 160.081) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 19-1532, passed
1-16-2019)
§ 57.132 GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General performance standards. The following general performance
standards are applicable to all development in a regulatory floodplain. The
standards of this section apply except when superseded by more stringent
requirements in the subsequent sections.
      (1)   No development, except as allowed in §
57.136, shall be allowed in the regulatory floodplain that singularly or
cumulatively creates an increase in flood stage or velocity off-site, or a
damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity on-site
or threat to public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   For all projects involving a channel modification, fill, stream
maintenance or a levee, the flood conveyance and storage capacity of the
regulatory floodplain shall not be reduced.
      (3)   If the proposed development would result in a change in the
regulatory floodplain or BFE, the applicant shall obtain a LOMA/LOMR from FEMA.
If the development will result in an increase in the BFE of more than one foot
at any location, a CLOMR must be obtained before any work is performed in the
regulatory floodplain. No buildings may be built in the existing or proposed
regulatory floodplain until the LOMA/LOMR receives concurrence from IDNR/OWR
and is issued by FEMA and the building meets all the building protection
standards (division (B) below). Proposed changes to the regulatory floodway
delineation and the BFE must be submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence.
      (4)   If the development is located in a public body of water, as defined
by IDNR/OWR, a permit must also be received from IDNR/OWR.
      (5)   Prior to the commencement of any construction, modification or
removal of a dam, the developer shall obtain an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit or
letter indicating a permit is not required.
      (6)   (a)   For public flood control projects, the floodplain management
standards will be considered met if the applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR
and WCSMC that each of the following conditions are met:
            1.   Demonstrate, by hydraulic and hydrologic modeling, that the
proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively result in increased flood
heights outside the project site or demonstrate that any increases will be
contained in easements for all flood events up to and including the base flood
event;
            2.   Demonstrate that the project will be operated and maintained
by a public agency; and
            3.   Demonstrate that the project will reduce flood damage to an
existing building or structure.
         (b)   These standards do not preclude the design, engineering,
construction or financing, in whole or in part of a public flood control
project by persons who are not public agencies.
      (7)   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, planned
unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home park and additions
to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation
data and floodway delineations.
   (B)   Public health protection standards.
      (1)   New and replacement water supply systems, wells and sanitary sewer
lines may be permitted if all manholes or other aboveground openings located
below the FPE are watertight.
      (2)   New or replacement on-site waste disposal systems are not allowed
in the regulatory floodplain within village limits.
      (3)   New, substantially improved or replacement wastewater treatment
plants shall have watertight openings for those openings located below the FPE.
Such facilities should be located to avoid impairment to the facility or
contamination of floodwaters during the base flood.
   (C)   Building protection standards.
      (1)   The building protection standards apply to all buildings located in
the regulatory floodplain; however, it should be noted that most new and
replacement buildings are not appropriate uses of the regulatory floodway.
         (a)   The lowest floor including basements of all new residential
structures, substantially improved structures and additions shall be elevated
up to at least the FPE. An attached garage for a structure must be elevated up
to at least 0.1 feet above the BFE.
            1.   If placed on fill, the top of the fill for the residential
structure shall be above the FPE. The top of fill for an attached garage shall
be at least 0.1 foot above the BFE. The fill shall be placed at that elevation
for a distance of 20 feet out from the building unless the building design is
certified by a registered structural engineer to be protected from damages due
to hydrostatic pressures. Additionally, the fill shall not settle below the FPE
for the residential structure and not below 0.1 feet above the base flood for
an attached garage, and shall be adequately protected against erosion, scour
and differential settlement. The building shall meet all of the requirements of
FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
            2.   If elevated by means of walls, pilings or other foundation,
the building’s supporting structure must be permanently open to flood waters
and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base flood. The
permanent openings shall be no more than one foot above existing grade, and
consist of a minimum of two openings. The openings must have a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding below the BFE. The lowest inside grade must match the
lowest existing outside grade adjacent to the structure. The foundation and
supporting members shall be anchored and aligned in relation to flood flows and
adjoining structures so as to minimize exposure to known hydrodynamic forces
such as current, waves, ice and floating debris. All areas below the FPE shall
be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor
(including basement) for the residential structure and all electrical, heating,
ventilating, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall
be located at or above the FPE. An attached garage must be elevated to at least
0.1 feet above the BFE. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities may be located
below the FPE. No area below the FPE shall be used for storage.
         (b)   The lowest floor including the basement of all new or
substantially improved nonresidential buildings shall be elevated at least to
the FPE as described above or be structurally dry floodproofed to at least the
FPE. A nonresidential building may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu of
elevation); provided that a professional engineer or registered structural
engineer shall certify that the building has been structurally dry floodproofed
below the FPE and the structure and attendant utility facilities are watertight
and capable of resisting the effects of the base flood. The building design
shall take into account flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and impacts from debris or
ice. Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention and
without an outside source of electricity. (Levees, berms, floodwalls and
similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose of this division
(C)(1)(b).)
         (c)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed on
a site for more than 180 days shall be at or above the FPE and shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement in accordance with
the Illinois Manufactured Home Tie-Down Code (77 I.A.C. § 870), as amended.
         (d)   Accessory structures, such as tool sheds and detached garages
which are not substantial improvements on an existing single-family lot, may be
constructed with the lowest floor below the FPE in accordance with the
following criteria.
            1.   The building shall not be used for human habitation.
            2.   All areas below the FPE shall be constructed with waterproof
material. Structures located in a regulatory floodway shall meet the floodway
standards in §
57.134.
            3.   The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation and
movement.
            4.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to the FPE.
            5.   The building shall be no greater than 600 square feet in floor
size, and be valued at less than $7,500. The building shall meet the permanent
opening criteria of division (B)(1)(b) above.
            6.   The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles or
tools and may not contain basements or other rooms, workshops, greenhouses or
similar uses.
      (2)   Accessory structures that do not meet all of the above criteria may
be constructed if they are dry floodproofed or elevated at least one-half of
one foot above the BFE.
   (D)   Nonconforming structures. A nonconforming structure damaged by flood,
fire, wind or other disaster may be restored unless the damage meets or exceeds
50% of its market value before it was damaged, in which case it shall conform
to the building protection standards of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 160.082) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 19-1532, passed
1-16-2019) Penalty, see §
57.999
§ 57.133 COMPENSATORY STORAGE VOLUME STANDARDS.
   The following standards apply within the regulatory floodplain or, for sites
draining more than 640 acres, the limits of the delineated floodplain as
accepted by the Administrator.
   (A)   Hydraulically equivalent compensatory storage volume will be required
for development in a riverine regulatory floodplain and shall be at least equal
to the regulatory floodplain flood storage volume displaced. The storage volume
displaced below the existing ten-year frequency flood elevation must be
replaced below the proposed ten-year frequency flood elevation. The storage
volume displaced above the ten-year existing frequency flood elevation must be
replaced above the proposed ten-year frequency flood elevation. Additional
storage of not less than 50% of the net volume displaced shall be provided
based upon the total volume filled below the BFE. The additional 50% need not
be hydraulically equivalent. The volume of storage lost shall be calculated
based on the existing BFE and the volume of compensatory storage shall be
calculated based upon the final with project BFE.
   (B)   Compensatory storage volume for development in a non-riverine
regulatory floodplain area that is also adjacent to a lake shall be equal to
the storage volume displaced. Additional storage of not less than 50% of the
net volume displaced shall be provided. The volume of storage lost shall be
calculated based on the existing BFE and the volume of compensatory shall be
calculated based upon the final with project BFE.
   (C)   Compensatory storage volume requirements for development in a non-
riverine regulatory floodplain that is not adjacent to a lake shall be replaced
in accordance with the requirements for the loss of depressional storage in §
57.036.
   (D)   The hydraulically equivalent compensatory storage areas shall be
designed to drain freely and openly to the channel and shall be located
adjacent to the development. This standard does not apply to non-riverine
regulatory floodplain.
   (E)   A recorded covenant running with the land is required to maintain the
compensatory storage volume in areas modified to provide compensatory storage
volume.
(Prior Code, § 160.083) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.134 FLOODWAY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The only development in a regulatory floodway which will be allowed
are appropriate uses which will not cause an increase in flood heights or
velocities for all flood events up to and including the base flood. Only those
appropriate uses listed below will be allowed in the regulatory floodway.
   (B)   Appropriate uses do not include the construction or placement of any
new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts, fencing
(including landscaping or planting designed to act as a fence) and storage of
materials except as specifically defined below as an appropriate use. If the
development is proposed for the regulatory floodway portion of the regulatory
floodplain, the following standards apply in addition to the standards for the
regulatory floodplain.
      (1)   Only the construction, modification, repair or replacement of the
following appropriate uses will be allowed in the regulatory floodway:
         (a)   Public flood control structures and private improvements
relating to the control of drainage and flooding of existing buildings,
erosion, water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
         (b)   Structures or facilities relating to functionally water
dependent uses, such as additions, modifications and improvements to existing
wastewater treatment plants (except for additions to habitable structures on
the site) and facilities and improvements relating to recreational boating
(this does not include new wastewater treatment plants);
         (c)   Storm and sanitary sewer outfalls;
         (d)   Underground and overhead utilities;
         (e)   Recreational facilities, such as playing fields, open pavilions,
gazebos and trail systems, including any related fencing (at least 50% open
when viewed from any one direction) built parallel to the direction of flood
flows;
         (f)   Detached garages, storage sheds, boat houses or other non-
habitable structures without sanitary facilities that are accessory to existing
buildings and will not block flood flows nor reduce regulatory floodway
storage;
         (g)   Bridges, culverts and associated roadways, sidewalks and
railways required for crossing the regulatory floodway or for access to other
appropriate uses in the regulatory floodway and any modification thereto;
         (h)   Parking lots built at or below existing grade provided that
either:
            1.   The BFE is less than one foot above the proposed parking lot;
or
            2.   The parking lot is accessory to short-term outdoor
recreational facilities and the owner agrees to restrict access during periods
of inundation and agrees to accept liability for all damage caused by vehicular
access during flooding events.
         (i)   Regulatory floodway grading, without fill, to create a positive
non-erosive slope toward a channel;
         (j)   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures, including the construction of water-tight window wells, elevating
structures or the construction of flood walls or berms around residential,
commercial or industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the
floodwall or berm shall be no more than ten feet away from the exterior wall of
the existing structure, and which are not considered to be substantial
improvements to the structure;
         (k)   The repair, replacement or reconstruction of a damaged building;
provided that none of the outside dimensions of the building are increased and
provided that the cost of repair is less than 50% of the building’s value
before it was damaged. When damage is 50% or more (a substantial improvement),
the activity shall conform to §
57.132; and
         (l)   Modifications to an existing building that would not increase
the enclosed floor area of the building below the BFE and which will not block
flood flows. These modifications include fireplaces, bay windows, decks, patios
and second story addition. No enclosed floor areas may be built on stilts. The
modifications may not singularly or cumulatively equal 50% or more of the
building’s market value.
      (2)   Additions or changes to the above list of appropriate uses must be
approved by the Committee prior to the adoption by the County Board and IDNR/
OWR.
      (3)   All development in the regulatory floodway shall require a permit
from IDNR/OWR and must be in accordance with all provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Construction of an appropriate use will be considered permissible
provided that the proposed project meets the following engineering and
mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing with supporting plans,
calculations and data prepared and signed by a professional engineer.
         (a)   All effective regulatory floodway conveyance lost due to the
development of appropriate uses, other than bridge or culvert crossings or on-
stream structures or dams, shall be replaced for all flood events up to and
including the base flood.
         (b)   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used to
determine transition sections in calculations of effective regulatory floodway
conveyance.
            1.   Flowing water will expand no faster than at a rate of one foot
horizontal for every four feet of the flooded stream’s length.
            2.   Flowing water will contract no faster than at a rate of one
foot horizontal for every one foot of the flooded stream’s length.
            3.   Flowing water will not expand or contract faster than one foot
vertical for every ten feet of flooded stream length.
            4.   All cross-sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
            5.   Transition sections must be used to determine the effective
conveyance areas on adjacent properties.
         (c)   Development of an appropriate use will not result in an increase
in the average channel or regulatory floodway velocities or stage. However, in
the case of bridges or culverts or on stream structures built for the purpose
of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood flows, velocities may
be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and sedimentation will be
avoided by the use of rip-rap or other design measures.
      (5)   In the case of on-stream structures built for the purpose of
backing up water during normal or flood flows, the increase in flood stage when
compared to existing conditions for all storm events up to and including the
base flood event shall be contained within recorded easements or the channel
banks. A dam safety permit or letter indicating a dam safety permit is not
required must be obtained from IDNR/OWR for such structures.
      (6)   IDNR/OWR will issue permits for any IDNR/OWR projects, dams and the
like and for all other state, WCSMC or certified community projects.
(Prior Code, § 160.084) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.135 RIVERINE FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   These standards apply to riverine regulatory floodplains without a
regulatory floodway.
   (B)   The applicant shall obtain approval from IDNR/OWR for all development
any portion of which is located partially or completely within the regulatory
floodplain (without a delineated regulatory floodway) with a tributary drainage
area of 640 acres or more.
      (1)   The development shall not singularly or cumulatively result in an
obstruction of flood flows or potential flood damages outside the site due to
an increase in flood heights, velocities or loss of floodplain area storage.
      (2)   A professional engineer shall submit a study that demonstrates one
of the following:
         (a)   Determine a floodway which meets the definition of a regulatory
floodway and demonstrate that the proposed development meets the floodway
standards in §
57.134; or
         (b)   Determine a BFE and demonstrate that the proposed development
will maintain the existing conditions conveyance, will not increase flood
velocities, will not increase flood profiles and will compensate for any lost
floodplain storage.
(Prior Code, § 160.085) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.136 BRIDGE AND CULVERT STANDARDS.
   These standards are for the reconstruction, modification or new construction
of bridges, culvert crossings and roadway approaches located in the regulatory
floodplain.
   (A)   A proposed new structure shall not result in an increase of upstream
flood stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing conditions for
all flood events up to and including the base flood event unless contained
within the channel banks or recorded easements. The evaluation must be
submitted to the IDNR/OWR for review and a permit obtained.
   (B)   If the proposed new structure will increase upstream flood stages
greater than 0.1 foot, the applicant must contact IDNR/OWR for a dam safety
permit or waiver. The Director shall be copied on all related correspondence.
   (C)   Lost regulatory floodplain storage must be replaced as required in §
57.133, except that artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in
head loss behind an existing bridge or culvert crossing shall not be required
to be replaced; provided no flood damage will be incurred downstream.
   (D)   Velocity increases must be mitigated by use of appropriate measures to
avoid scour, erosion and sedimentation at the structure.
   (E)   For modification or replacement of existing structures, the existing
structure must first be evaluated in accordance with IDNR/OWR Rules (17 I.A.C.
Part 3708) to determine if the existing structure is a source of flood damage.
If the structure is a source of flood damage, the applicant’s engineer shall
submit justification to allow the damage to continue and evaluate the
feasibility of relieving the structure’s impact. Modifications or replacement
structures shall not increase flood stages (0.0 feet) compared to the existing
condition for all flood events up to and including the base flood event. The
evaluation must be submitted to IDNR/OWR, for review and concurrence before a
permit is issued. The Director shall be copied on all related correspondence.
   (F)   If any work is proposed in, near or over a public body of water, a
permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be obtained from
IDNR/OWR.
   (G)   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge showing
the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be submitted to
IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required.
   (H)   Construction vehicles shall cross streams by the means of existing
bridges or culverts. Where an existing crossing is not available, a temporary
crossing that has been issued a permit or waiver by IDNR/OWR shall be
constructed in which the following apply.
      (1)   The approach roads will be 0.5 feet or less above existing grade.
      (2)   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up the
water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall.
      (3)   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two
feet below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be non-
erosive material, such as rip-rap or gravel.
      (4)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within one
year after installation, unless an extension of time is granted by the
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 160.086) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** STREAM AND WETLANDS PROTECTION ****
§ 57.150 AUTHORITY.
   The Lowland Conservancy Overlay District is adopted by the Mayor and Board
of Trustees of the village under the authority of the Ill. Rev. Stat., Chapter
34, Paragraphs 3151 et seq. of the Ill. Rev. Stat. and 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et
seq. The village also asserts its jurisdiction over all isolated wetlands
within the village corporate limits and facilities planning areas that were
formerly under the jurisdiction of the United States Army Corps of Engineers
prior to January 9, 2000.
(Prior Code, § 160.087) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.151 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of
Romeoville Lowland Conservancy Overlay District Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 160.088) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.152 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to promote the health,
safety and general welfare of the present and future residents of village and
downstream drainage areas by providing for the protection, preservation, proper
maintenance and use of village watercourses, lakes, ponds, floodplain and
wetland areas. All work to be done in a Lowland Conservancy District will
require a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers. The responsibility for
obtaining the permit is by the applicant. If requested by the village, a sign-
off from the Army Corps of Engineers will be required if the site appears to be
near a wetland area. Absolutely no work shall be undertaken until the
Administrator has received an approved permit by the Army Corps of Engineers.
   (B)   This subchapter is more specifically adopted:
      (1)   To prevent flood damage by preserving storm and floodwater storage
capacity (including depressional storage);
      (2)   To maintain the normal hydrologic balance of streams, floodplains,
ponds, lakes, wetlands and groundwater by storing and providing for
infiltration of wet-period runoff in floodplains and wetlands, and releasing it
slowly to the stream to maintain in-stream flow;
      (3)   To manage stormwater runoff and maintain natural runoff conveyance
systems, and minimize the need for major storm sewer construction and
drainageway modification;
      (4)   To improve water quality, both by filtering and storing sediments
and attached pollutants, nutrients and organic compounds before they drain into
streams or wetlands, and by maintaining the natural pollutant-assimilating
capabilities of streams, floodplains and wetlands;
      (5)   To protect shorelines and stream banks from soil erosion, using
natural means and materials wherever possible;
      (6)   To protect fish spawning, breeding, nursery and feeding grounds;
      (7)   To protect wildlife habitat;
      (8)   To preserve areas of special recreational, scenic or scientific
interest, including natural areas and habitats of endangered species;
      (9)   To maintain and enhance the aesthetic qualities of developing
areas; and
      (10)   To encourage the continued economic growth and high quality of
life of the village which depends in part on an adequate quality of water, a
pleasing natural environment and recreational opportunities in proximity to the
village.
   (C)   In order to achieve the purpose and intent of this subchapter, the
village designates the Lowland Conservancy Overlay District that shall be
considered as an overlay to the zoning districts created by village zoning
ordinances as amended. Any proposed development activity within the district
must obtain a site development permit as approved by the governing body of the
village. (See §
57.153.)
(Prior Code, § 160.089) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.153 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   To ensure that proposed development activity can be carried out in a manner
which is compatible and harmonious with the natural amenities of the Lowland
Conservancy Overlay District and with surrounding land uses, a request for a
site development permit for such development activity must be submitted for
approval by the Administrator.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   No site development permit shall be issued unless the village finds
that the following apply.
         (a)   The development will not detrimentally affect or destroy natural
features, such as ponds, streams, wetlands and forested areas, nor impair their
natural functions, but will preserve and incorporate such features into the
development’s site.
         (b)   The location of natural features and the site’s topography have
been considered in the designing and siting of all physical improvements.
         (c)   Adequate assurances have been received that the clearing of the
site of topsoil, trees and other natural features will not occur before the
commencement of building operations; only those areas approved for the
placement of physical improvements may be cleared.
         (d)   The development will not reduce the natural retention storage
capacity of any watercourse, nor increase the magnitude and volume of flooding
at other locations; and that in addition, the development will not increase
stream velocities.
         (e)   The soil and subsoil conditions are suitable for excavation and
site preparation, and the drainage is designed to prevent erosion and
environmentally deleterious surface runoff.
      (2)   There shall be no development, including the immediate or future
clearing or removal of natural ground cover and/or trees, within the Lowland
Conservancy Overlay District for any purpose, unless a site development permit
is granted subject to the provisions of this subchapter or the provisions of
the village zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Dumping, filling, mining, excavating, dredging or transferring of
any earth material within the district is prohibited unless a site development
permit is granted.
      (4)   No ponds or impoundments shall be created nor other alterations or
improvements shall be allowed in the district for recreational uses, stormwater
management, flood control, agricultural uses or as scenic features unless a
site development permit is granted.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for a site development permit
shall be made by the owner of the property or their authorized agent to the
village, on a form furnished for that purpose. Each application shall bear the
name(s) and address(es) of the owner or developer of the site and of any
consulting firm retained by the applicant together with the name of the
applicant’s principal contact at such firm, and shall be accompanied by a
filing fee of $200 unless the application is part of a subdivision review where
other fees take priority. The applicant further agrees to reimburse the village
for any outside review engineering fees, incurred by the village, in addition
to the filing fees. Each application shall include certification that any land
clearing, construction or development involving the movement of earth shall be
in accordance with the plans approved upon issuance of the permit.
   (C)   Submissions. Each application for a site development permit shall be
accompanied by the following information: general provisions, site development
plan, geologic and soil report, drainage control plan, site grading and
excavation plan, landscape plan, justification for watercourse relocation and
minor modifications, stream modification/relocation plan, channel and bank
armoring, culverts, on-stream impoundments and an impact assessment.
   (D)   Review and approval. Each application for a site development permit
shall be reviewed and acted upon according to the following procedures.
      (1)   The village will review each application for a site development
permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
village may also refer any application to the Will/South Cook Soil and Water
Conservation District and/or any other local government or public agency within
whose jurisdiction the site is located for review and comments. Within 30 days
after receiving an application, the village shall, in writing, approve the
permit application, if it is found to be in conformance with the provisions of
this subchapter and issue the permit, approve the permit application subject to
such reasonable conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the
objectives of this subchapter, and issue the permit subject to these
conditions; or disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies
and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
      (2)   No site development permit shall be issued for an intended
development site unless the following apply.
         (a)   The development, including, but not limited to, subdivisions and
planned unit developments, has been approved by the village where applicable.
         (b)   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the village.
         (c)   The proposed development is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the village for the area in which
the site is situated.
   (E)   Permit exceptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
         (a)   Emergency work necessary to preserve life or property; when
emergency work is performed under this section, the person performing it shall
report the pertinent facts relating to the work to the Administrator within ten
days after commencement of the work and shall thereafter obtain a site
development permit and shall perform such work as may be determined by the
agency to be reasonably necessary to correct any impairment to the watercourse,
lake, pond, floodplain or wetland;
         (b)   Work consisting of the operation, repair or maintenance of any
lawful use of land existing on the date of adoption of this subchapter; and
         (c)   Lands adjacent to farm ditches if:
            1.   Such lands are not adjacent to a natural stream or river;
            2.   Those parts of such drainage ditches adjacent to such lands
were not streams before ditching; or
            3.   Such lands are maintained in agricultural uses without
buildings and structures.
      (2)   Where farm ditches are found to contribute to adverse environmental
impacts or hazards to persons or property, the village may include designated
farm ditches in the District. The village may also require that linings,
bulkheads, dikes and culverts be removed to mitigate hazards, or that other
mitigative measures be taken, such as the maintenance of a natural vegetation
buffer strip.
   (F)   Effect on other permits. The granting of a site development permit
under the provisions herein shall in no way affect the owner’s responsibility
to obtain the approval required by any other statute, ordinance or regulation
of any state agency or subdivision thereof, or to meet other village ordinances
and regulations. Where state and/or federal permits are required, a site
development permit will not be issued until they are obtained.
(Prior Code, § 160.090) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.154 GENERAL PROVISIONS; AREA AFFECTED.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to development in or near streams, lakes,
ponds and wetlands within the village. Streams, lakes and ponds (including
intermittent streams) are those which are shown on the United States Department
of the Interior Geological Survey (USGS) 7.5 minute quadrangle National
Wetlands Inventory Maps and those additional streams, lakes and ponds
delineated on the village water resources management plan map adopted as part
of this subchapter. Those are made a part of this subchapter, and two copies
thereof shall remain on file at the village administrative building for public
inspection. Wetlands are those designated by the most recent version of the
United States Army Corps of Engineers Manual of Wetland Delineation. At the
discretion of the Stormwater Administrator, a letter of no objection (LONO) may
be required for any development adjacent to wetlands.
   (B)   If new drainage courses, lakes, ponds or wetlands are created as part
of a development, the requirements for setbacks and uses within setbacks and
the criteria for watercourse relocation and minor modification shall apply. The
District shall be amended as appropriate to include these areas.
      (1)   The Lowland Conservancy Overlay District. The Lowland Conservancy
Overlay District shall be considered as an overlay to the zoning districts
created by the village zoning ordinance, as amended, in addition to the
requirements of this subchapter, applicants for a site development permit
within the District shall meet all requirements of the underlying zoning
districts. In the event of a conflict between the overlay district requirements
and the underlying zoning district requirements, the most restrictive
requirements prevail.
      (2)   District boundary. The procedures, standards and requirements
contained in this subchapter shall apply to all lots within wetlands and
streams, and all lots lying wholly or in part:
         (a)   Within the special flood hazard area (SFHA) designated by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
         (b)   Within 100 feet of the ordinary high water mark (OHWM) of a
perennial stream or intermittent stream, the ordinary high water mark of a lake
or pond or the edge of a wetland; or
         (c)   Within depressional areas serving as floodplain or stormwater
storage areas, as designated on the Lowland Conservancy District map.
      (3)   Minimum setback of development activity from streams, lakes,
depressional storage, ponds and wetlands.
         (a)   1.   Absolutely no development activity (except as provided
below) may occur within the minimum setback. The minimum setback should be a
vegetated buffer strip, preferable planted with native plant species, shall be
maintained or restored around the periphery of the area in question. The width
of the buffer strip shall be as follows:
               a.   Twenty-five feet for a tributary length of 250 feet or
less;
               b.   Fifty feet for a tributary length greater than 250 feet and
less than 500 feet; and
               c.   Seventy-five feet for a tributary length over 500 feet.
            2.   Note: the tributary length is the maximum length (measured
prior to subdividing the parcel) of the project limits to the sensitive area or
the length from a drainage divide to the sensitive area.
         (b)   The minimum setback shall be measured between the ordinary high
water mark of streams, lakes and ponds, or the edge of wetlands, or within a
designated depressional areas. In no case shall the setback be less than the
boundary of the 100-year floodway, as defined by FEMA. These setback
requirements do not apply to a stream in a culvert unless the stream is taken
out of the culvert as part of development activity. If a culvert functions as a
low-flow culvert, where water is intended to periodically flow over it, the
setback requirements apply.
         (c)   The following development activities may be permitted, subject
to issuance of a site development permit, within the minimum setback areas
only, if, as a practical matter, they cannot be located outside the setback
area. Such development activities will only be approved based upon a report,
prepared by a qualified professional, which demonstrates that they will not
adversely affect water quality; destroy, damage or disrupt significant habitat
area; adversely affect drainage and/or stormwater retention capabilities;
adversely affect flood conveyance and storage; lead to unstable earth
conditions; create erosion hazards or be materially detrimental to any other
property in the area of the subject property or to the village as a whole,
including the loss of open space or scenic vistas:
            1.   Minor improvements, such as walkways, benches, comfort
stations, informational displays, directional signs, footbridges, observation
decks and docks;
            2.   The maintenance, repair, replacement and reconstruction of
existing utilities, highways and bridges, electrical transmission and
telecommunication lines, poles and towers; and
            3.   The establishment and development of public and private parks
and recreation areas, outdoor education areas, historic natural and scientific
areas, game refuges, fish and wildlife improvement projects, game bird and
animal farms, wildlife preserves and public boat launching ramps.
         (d)   Review of proposed development activity within the minimum
setback area will consider the following.
            1.   Only limited filling and excavating necessary for the
development of public boat launching ramps, swimming beaches or the development
of park shelters or similar structures is allowed. The development and
maintenance of roads, parking lots and other impervious surfaces necessary for
permitted uses are allowed only on a very limited basis, and where no alternate
location outside of the setback area is available.
            2.   Land surface modification within the minimum setback shall be
permitted for the development of stormwater drainage swales between the
developed area of the site (including a stormwater detention facility on the
site) and a stream, lake or pond or wetland. Detention basins within the
setback are generally discouraged, unless it can be shown that resultant
modifications will not impair water quality, habitat or flood storage
functions.
            3.   No filling or excavating within wetlands is permitted except
to install piers for the limited development of walkways and observation decks.
Walkways and observation decks should avoid high quality wetland areas, and
should not adversely affect natural areas designated in the State Natural Areas
Inventory or the habitat of rare or endangered species.
            4.   Wetland area occupied by the development of decks and walkways
must be mitigated by an equal area of wetland habitat improvement.
            5.   a.   Modification of degraded wetlands for purposes of
stormwater management is permitted where the quality of the wetland is improved
and total wetland acreage is preserved. Where such modification is permitted,
wetlands shall be protected from the effects of increased stormwater runoff by
measures such as detention or sedimentation basins, vegetated swales and buffer
strips and sediment and erosion control measures on adjacent developments. The
direct entry of storm sewers into wetlands shall be avoided. Environmental
impact analysis of wetland modification may be required in accordance with §
57.156.
               b.   An applicant for a site development permit (see §
57.153) must stabilize areas left exposed after land surface modification with
vegetation normally associated with that stream or wetland. The planting of
native riparian vegetation is recommended as the preferred stabilization
measure. Other techniques should be used only when and where vegetation fails
to control erosion. The preferred alternative is riprap, using natural rock
materials where practicable, installed on eroding bank areas in a manner that
provides interstitial space for vegetative growth and habitat for macro
invertebrates and other stream organisms. Lining of the stream channel bottom
is not permitted.
               c.   The applicant shall minimize access to the applicant’s
proposed development activity within all or part of the Lowland Conservancy
Overlay District where such access could adversely affect the stream, lake,
pond, wetland or related environmentally sensitive areas.
      (4)   Site development plan.
         (a)   A site development plan must be prepared for any proposed
development within, or partly within, the Lowland Conservancy Overlay District
and must indicate:
            1.   Dimension and area of parcel, showing also the vicinity of the
site in sufficient detail to enable easy location, in the field, of the site
for which the site development permit is sought, and including the boundary
line, underlying zoning, a legend, a scale and a north arrow. This requirement
may be satisfied by the submission of a separate vicinity map;
            2.   Location of any existing and proposed structures;
            3.   Location of existing or proposed on-site sewage systems or
private water supply systems;
            4.   Location of any perennial or intermittent stream, lake or
pond, and its ordinary high water mark;
            5.   Location and landward limit of all wetlands;
            6.   Location of setback lines as defined in this subchapter;
            7.   Location of the 100-year floodway and floodplain limits;
            8.   Location of existing or future access roads;
            9.   Specifications and dimensions of stream, wetland or other
water areas proposed for alterations;
            10.   Cross-sections and calculations indicating any changes in
flood storage volumes; and
            11.   Such other information as reasonably requested by the
village.
         (b)   The applicant shall present evidence, prepared by a qualified
professional engineer, that demonstrates that the proposed development activity
will not endanger health and safety, including danger from the obstruction or
diversion of flood flow. The developer shall also show, by submitting
appropriate calculations and resource inventories, that the proposed
development activity will not substantially reduce natural floodwater storage
capacity, destroy valuable habitat for aquatic or other flora and fauna,
adversely affect water quality or groundwater resources, increase stormwater
runoff velocity so that water levels on other lands are substantially raised or
the danger from flooding increased or adversely impact any other natural
stream, floodplain or wetland functions, and is otherwise consistent with the
intent of this subchapter.
      (5)   Geologic and soil report. The site proposed for development shall
be investigated to determine the soil and geologic characteristics, including
soil erosion potential. A report, prepared by a licensed professional engineer,
geoscientist or soil scientist experienced in the practice of geologic and soil
mechanics, shall be submitted with every application for land development
within the Lowland Conservancy Overlay District. This report shall include a
description of soil type and stability of surface and subsurface conditions.
Any area that the investigation indicates as being subject to geologic or soil
hazards shall not be subjected to development, unless the engineer or soil
scientist can demonstrate conclusively that these hazards can be overcome.
      (6)   Hydrologic controls/drainage control plan.
         (a)   A drainage control plan that describes the hydraulic
characteristics of on-site and nearby watercourses as well as the proposed
drainage plan, prepared by a registered professional engineer experienced in
hydrology and hydraulics, shall be submitted with each application for land
development within the Lowland Conservancy Overlay District. Unless otherwise
noted, the following restrictions, requirements and standards shall apply to
all development within the Lowland Conservancy Overlay District:
            1.   Natural open-channel drainage- ways shall be preserved; and
            2.   Runoff from areas of concentrated impervious cover (e.g.,
roofs, driveways, streets, patios and the like shall be collected and
transported to a drainageway (preferably a natural drainageway)) with
sufficient capacity to accept the discharge without undue erosion or
detrimental impact. Vegetated drainage swales are preferred over conveyances
constructed of concrete or other manufactured materials.
         (b)   The drainage control plan shall identify appropriate measures,
such as recharge basins and detention/retention basins, which will limit the
quantitative and qualitative effects of stormwater runoff to pre-development
conditions.
      (7)   Site grading and excavation plan.
         (a)   This division (B)(7) applies to the extent that grading and
excavation and erosion control plans, which satisfy the following requirements,
are not already required by a jurisdiction.
         (b)   A site grading and excavation plan, prepared by a registered
professional engineer, trained and experienced in civil engineering, shall be
submitted with each application for a site development permit and shall include
the following:
            1.   Details of the existing terrain and drainage pattern with one-
foot contours;
            2.   Proposed site contours at one-foot intervals;
            3.   Dimensions, elevation and contours of grading, excavation and
fill; slopes of all drainage swales shall be a minimum of 2% through the side
and rear yard drainage easements;
            4.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil
and other material that is removed from allowable grading and excavation sites,
including location of the disposal site if on the property;
            5.   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soil surface to be disturbed during each
stage, and estimated starting and completion dates. The schedule shall be
prepared so as to limit, to the shortest possible period, the time soil is
exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural vegetation be
destroyed, removed or disturbed more than 15 days prior to initiation of the
improvements; and
            6.   A detailed description of the revegetation and stabilization
methods to be employed, to be prepared in conjunction with the landscape plan
per division (B)(8) below. This description should include locations of erosion
control measures such as sedimentation basins, straw bales, diversion swales
and the like.
         (c)   The grading and excavation plan must be consistent with all the
provisions of this subchapter.
         (d)   Unless otherwise provided in this subchapter, the following
restrictions, requirements and standards shall apply to all development within
the district.
            1.   Every effort shall be made to develop the site in such a
manner so as to minimize the alteration of the natural topography.
            2.   No grading, filling, cleaning, clearing, terracing or
excavation of any kind shall be initiated until final engineering plans are
approved and the site development permit is granted by the village.
            3.   The depositing of any excavation, grading or clearing material
within a stream, lake, pond or wetland area shall be prohibited.
         (e)   In addition to locating all site improvements on the subject
property to minimize adverse impacts on the stream, lake, pond or wetland, the
applicant shall install a berm, curb or other physical barrier during
construction, and following completion of the project, where necessary, to
prevent direct runoff and erosion from any modified land surface into a stream,
lake, pond or wetland. All parking and vehicle circulation areas should be
located as far as possible from a stream, lake, pond or wetland.
         (f)   The village may limit development activity in or near a stream,
lake, pond or wetland to specific months, and to a maximum number of continuous
days or hours, in order to minimize adverse impacts. Also, the village may
require that equipment be operated from only one side of a stream, lake or pond
in order to minimize bank disruption. Other development techniques, conditions
and restrictions may be required in order to minimize adverse impacts on
streams, lakes, ponds or wetlands, and on any related areas not subject to
development activity.
      (8)   Natural vegetation buffer strip required; vegetation and
revegetation/landscape plan.
         (a)   To minimize erosion, stabilize the streambank, protect water
quality, maintain water temperature at natural levels, preserve fish and
wildlife habitat, to screen human-made structures and also to preserve
aesthetic values of the natural water course and wetland areas, a natural
vegetation strip shall be maintained along the edge of the stream, lake, pond
or wetland. The natural vegetation strip shall be as described in division (B)
(3) above and shall be measured from the ordinary high water mark of a
perennial or intermittent stream, lake or pond and the edge of wetland.
         (b)   Within the natural vegetation strip, trees and shrubs may be
selectively pruned or removed for harvest of merchantable timber to achieve a
filtered view of the water body from the principal structure and for reasonable
private access to the stream, lake, pond or wetland. Said pruning and removal
activities shall ensure that a live root system stays intact to provide for
streambank stabilization and erosion control.
         (c)   A landscape plan, prepared by a professional, shall be submitted
with each site development permit application for development activity within
the Lowland Conservancy Overlay District and contain the following:
            1.   A plan describing the existing vegetative cover of the
property and showing those areas where the vegetation will be removed as part
of the proposed construction; and
            2.   A plan describing the proposed revegetation of disturbed areas
specifying the materials to be used.
         (d)   The vegetation must be planned in such a way that access for
stream maintenance purposes shall not be prevented.
(Prior Code, § 160.091) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 19-1532, passed
1-16-2019) Penalty, see §
57.999
§ 57.155 WATERCOURSE RELOCATION AND MINOR MODIFICATIONS (INCLUDING
CHANNELIZATION AND RELOCATION).
   (A)   (1)   Watercourse relocation or modification is generally not
permitted because these activities are not usually consistent with the purposes
of this subchapter. Under certain circumstances, relocation and minor
modification may be permitted through a site development permit where certain
problems can be mitigated by relocation and/or minor modification, specifically
when:
         (a)   Off-site hydrologic conditions are causing erosion, flooding and
related problems;
         (b)   On-site soil and geologic conditions are resulting in unstable
conditions that pose hazards to life, health and existing structures or
property;
         (c)   The quality of previously modified or relocated streams can be
improved through restoration;
         (d)   Officially adopted stormwater management plans call for
placement of detention or retention facilities in a stream; or
         (e)   Public utilities, including sanitary sewers, pipelines and
roadways, require stream crossing or relocation where there are not practical
alternatives.
      (2)   Modification of watercourses as a convenience for site design
purposes is not permitted.
   (B)   (1)   Conditions and restrictions for permitting stream modification.
Stream modification, when permitted, is subject to the following conditions and
restrictions.
         (a)   Water quality, habitat and other natural functions must be
significantly improved by the modification; no significant habitat area may be
destroyed.
         (b)   The amount of flow and velocity of a stream is not to be
increased or decreased as the stream enters or leaves a subject property,
unless this reflects an improvement over previous conditions in terms of
reduced flooding, reduced erosion or enhanced low flow conditions.
         (c)   Prior to diverting water into a new channel, a qualified
professional approved by the village shall inspect the stream modification, and
issue a written report to the village that the modified stream complies with
the requirements in division (B)(2) below.
         (d)   Stream channel enlargement, or other modifications that would
increase conveyance, shall not be permitted if the intended purpose is to
accommodate development activities in the floodplain.
      (2)   Required content of stream modification, relocation plan. Stream
relocation may be permitted in accordance with a stream relocation plan that
provides for:
         (a)   The creation of a natural meander pattern, pools, riffles and
substrate;
         (b)   The formation of gentle side slopes (at least three feet
horizontally per one foot vertically), including installation of erosion
control features;
         (c)   The utilization of natural materials wherever possible;
         (d)   The planting of vegetation normally associated with streams,
including primarily native riparian vegetation;
         (e)   The creation of spawning and nesting areas wherever appropriate;
         (f)   The re-establishment of the fish population wherever
appropriate;
         (g)   The restoration of water flow characteristics compatible with
fish habitat areas, wherever appropriate;
         (h)   The filling and revegetation of the prior channel;
         (i)   A proposed phasing plan, specifying time of year for all project
phases;
         (j)   Plans for sediment and erosion control; and
         (k)   Establishment of a low-flow channel that reflects the conditions
of a natural stream.
      (3)   Criteria for permitting armoring of channels and banks. Armoring in
the form of bulkheads, riprap or other materials or devices is not permitted
except in accordance with the following.
         (a)   Significant erosion cannot be prevented in any other way and the
use of vegetation and gradual bank slopes has not sufficiently stabilized the
shoreline or bank.
         (b)   The bulkhead or other device is not placed within a wetland, or
between a wetland and a lake or pond.
         (c)   The bulkhead, riprap or other device will minimize the
transmittal of wave energy or currents to other properties.
         (d)   The change in the horizontal or vertical configuration of the
land must be kept to a minimum. Where permission to install bulkheads or other
armoring devices is requested as part of the site development permit
application, documentation and certification pertaining to the items above must
be submitted.
      (4)   Criteria for permitting the use of culverts. Culverts are not
permitted in streams except in accordance with the following.
         (a)   Where a culvert is necessary for creating access to a property,
use of culverts as a convenience, in order to facilitate general site design,
is not to be considered.
         (b)   The culvert must allow passage of fish inhabiting the stream,
and accommodate the 100-year flood event without increasing upstream flooding,
except where a restricting culvert is desirable as part of an overall storm and
floodwater management plan.
         (c)   The culvert must be maintained free of debris and sediment to
allow free passage of water, and if applicable, fish.
         (d)   The stream bottom should not be significantly widened for the
placement of a culvert as this increases siltation; if multiple culverts must
be installed, one culvert should be at the level of the bottom of the stream
and the others at or above normal water elevation.
      (5)   Criteria for permitting on-stream impoundments. Impoundment of
streams is not permitted except in accordance with the following.
         (a)   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing regional stormwater detention, flood control or public recreation.
         (b)   The impoundment will not prevent the upstream migration of
indigenous fish species.
         (c)   A non-point source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals and other pollutants.
         (d)   Impoundments without permanent low-flow pools are preferred
except where a permanent pool is necessary to achieve the intended benefits of
the impoundment (e.g., recreation or water quality mitigation).
         (e)   Impoundment design shall include gradual bank slopes,
appropriate bank stabilization measures and a pre-sedimentation basin.
(Prior Code, § 160.092) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.156 IMPACT ASSESSMENT.
   The village may ask an applicant to submit a report prepared by a qualified
professional, and approved by the village, in order to assess the potential
impact of proposed development on a lake, stream or wetland and associated
environmentally sensitive areas, including loss of flood storage potential,
loss of habitat, changes in species diversity and quantity, impacts on water
quality, increases in human intrusion and impacts on associated streams, lakes,
ponds, wetlands or downstream areas.
(Prior Code, § 160.093) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.157 STREAM MAINTENANCE EASEMENT.
   The applicant shall grant an access easement for stream maintenance purposes
to the village, over 25 feet parallel to the stream bank.
(Prior Code, § 160.094) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.158 THREATENED AND ENDANGERED SPECIES.
   All developments shall conform to the requirements set forth in 520 ILCS 10/
11, which states that a consultation with the Department shall be undertaken to
evaluate whether actions proposed by the development are likely to jeopardize
the continued existence of listed endangered or threatened species or are
likely to results in the destruction or adverse modification of the designated
essential habitat of such species. Final disposition of any disagreement not
resolved by non-local laws, ordinance and the like will be made by the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 160.095) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.159 SECURITY.
   The applicant may be required to file with the village a letter of credit,
or other improvement security satisfactory to the village and in an amount
deemed sufficient by the Village Engineer to ensure compliance with any aspect
of this subchapter; to cover all costs of improvements, landscaping or
maintenance of improvements and landscaping, for such period as specified by
the village, and engineering and inspection costs; and to cover the cost of
failure or repair of improvements installed on the site.
(Prior Code, § 160.096) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.160 LIABILITY.
   Prior to issuance of a construction permit, the applicant shall enter into
an agreement with the village which runs with the property, in a form
acceptable to the Village Attorney, indemnifying the village for any damage
resulting from development activity on the subject property which is related to
the physical condition of the stream or wetland.
(Prior Code, § 160.097) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.161 SEPARABILITY.
   Every section, provision or part of this subchapter is declared separable
from every other section, provision or part; and if any section, provision or
part thereof shall be held invalid, it shall not affect any other section,
provision or part.
(Prior Code, § 160.098) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.162 RETROACTIVITY.
   The requirements of this subchapter apply to all platted and unplatted lands
within the jurisdiction of the village.
(Prior Code, § 160.099) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.163 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority for administration of this subchapter resides with the
Administrator and shall conform with appropriate section of the village zoning
ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   In the event any person holding a site development permit
pursuant to this subchapter violates the terms of the permit, or carries on-
site development in such a manner so as to materially and adversely affect the
health, welfare or safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of
the development site, or so as to be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood, the
village may suspend or revoke the special use permit.
      (2)   Suspension of a permit shall be by a written stop work order issued
by the village and delivered to the permittee, or their agent, or the person
performing the work. The stop-work order shall be effective immediately, shall
state the specific violations cited, and shall state the conditions under which
work may be resumed.
(Prior Code, § 160.100) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 57.175 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND OTHER PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A stormwater management permit shall be required if:
      (1)   The development or a substantial improvement is located in the
regulatory floodplain or there is regulatory floodplain within the property
boundary; or
      (2)   The development disturbs more than 5,000 square feet of ground
cover, unless the development solely involves one or more of the following:
         (a)   Installation, renovation or replacement of a septic system,
potable water service line or other utility to serve an existing structure;
         (b)   Excavation or removal of vegetation in rights-of-way or public
utility easements for the purpose of installing or maintaining utilities not
including storm sewers;
         (c)   Maintenance, repair or at grade replacement of existing lawn
areas not otherwise requiring a stormwater permit under this chapter; or
         (d)   Maintenance of an existing stormwater facility, not requiring
other state or federal permits or approvals.
   (B)   All development shall secure all appropriate stormwater management
related approvals, including, without limitation, an IDNR/OWR floodway/
floodplain construction permit, a USACOE 404 permit and an IDNR/OWR dam safety
permit if required, from all federal, state and regional authorities and other
appropriate federal, state and regional approvals prior to the issuance of a
stormwater management permit for areas of a site requiring such other
approvals.
(Prior Code, § 160.110) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.176 PERMIT REVIEW FEES.
   All permit fees, as established by separate ordinance by the Village Board,
shall be paid at the time of application. Fees may include, but are not limited
to, the cost of permit administration, review and inspections prior to
construction, during construction and within the permanent cover establishment
period following construction.
(Prior Code, § 160.111) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.177 PROFESSIONAL SEALS AND CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The design of stormwater facilities, calculations for the
determination of the regulatory floodplain or calculations of the impacts of
development shall meet the standards of this chapter and shall be prepared,
signed and sealed by a professional engineer. The professional engineer shall
provide an opinion that the technical submittal meets the criteria required by
this chapter.
   (B)   For structures (not including earth embankments) that are subject to a
differential water pressure greater than three feet the submittal shall include
evidence that the subject design has been reviewed by a qualified professional
who shall, as a minimum, have registration as a professional engineer. Such
reviews shall include stability of the structure under design conditions
considering the protection of downstream life and property in the event of a
failure. When directed by the Administrator, the calculations submitted for
such structures shall be reviewed, signed and sealed by a registered structural
engineer.
   (C)   For projects which include earth embankments, which are subjected to
differential water pressure, the submittal shall include evidence that the
embankment design and construction specifications are adequate for the design
conditions. This review shall include consideration of the existing foundation
soils for the embankment, the materials from which the embankment is to be
constructed, compaction requirements for the embankment and protection of the
embankment from failure due to overtopping. Construction and materials
specifications for all such embankments shall be included with the plan set
submittal. When directed by the Administrator, or when the impounded water
pressure differential exceeds three feet, or when appropriate considering the
volume impounded and water surface elevation differential to which the
embankment is subjected, these calculations may be required to be reviewed,
signed and sealed by a qualified geotechnical or structural engineer.
   (D)   A topographical map of the site, record drawings and other required
drawings shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a professional land surveyor
or professional engineer and tied to National Geodetic Vertical Datum, 1988
adjustment and any FEMA benchmarks.
(Prior Code, § 160.112) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 19-1532, passed
1-16-2019)
**** DURATION AND REVISION TO PERMITS ****
§ 57.190 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   Permits expire December 31 of the third year following the date of permit
issuance or upon expiration of state or federal permits required for stormwater
management.
(Prior Code, § 160.113) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.191 PERMIT EXTENSION.
   If the permitted activity has been started but is not completed by the
expiration date of the permit, and the permittee intends to pursue the
permitted activity, then the permittee may submit a written request that the
expiration date be extended. Upon receipt of such request, the Administrator
may extend the expiration date in one-year increments a maximum of three times
for permitted activities outside regulatory floodplains and floodways.
Expiration dates for permitted activities in regulatory floodplains and
floodways may be extended in one-year increments a maximum of three times
provided the activity is in compliance with the then current requirements of
this chapter or the applicable certified community ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 160.114) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.192 PERMIT REVISION.
   If, after permit issuance, the permittee decides to revise the approved
plans, the permittee shall submit revised plans to the Director or the
Administrator, along with a written request for approval. If the Director or
the Administrator determines that the revised plans are in compliance with the
then current requirements of this chapter or the applicable certified community
ordinance, an approval of the revised plans may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 160.115) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** REQUIRED SUBMITTALS ****
§ 57.205 GENERALLY.
   All permit submittals shall include the material listed in the sections
noted in
Chapter 57, Appendix C, Table 3 for the applicable type of development, unless
the submittal requirements are specifically modified by the procedure in §
57.206.
(Prior Code, § 160.116) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.206 MODIFICATION OF SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The Administrator may, at their discretion, modify the submittal
requirements on a case-by-case basis considering the size, complexity and
likelihood that a development will affect the discharge of stormwater. Such
modifications shall be requested and answered in writing. The Administrator’s
response shall note the relevant findings, and be specific as to what submittal
requirements are changed. The Director shall be copied on all related
correspondence. The Administrator may not modify submittal requirements for any
aspect of the development requiring state or federal permits or approvals, nor
for any application in which any variance of the permitting authorities
ordinance is requested.
(Prior Code, § 160.117) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.207 APPLICATIONS AND PROJECT OVERVIEW.
   The applicant shall provide the following information, as a minimum, on
forms or in a format approved by the Administrator:
   (A)   The name and legal address of the owner(s) of the site and the permit
applicant;
   (B)   The common address, legal description, property identification number
(PIN) of the site;
   (C)   The name of the project, area of the site in acres, type of
development;
   (D)   A general narrative description of the development, existing and
proposed conditions and project planning principles considered, including Best
Management Practices used;
   (E)   Affidavits signed by the owner or the applicant’s authorized
representative attesting to their understanding of the requirements of this
chapter or the applicable certified community ordinance and their intent to
comply therewith;
   (F)   A statement of opinion by a qualified person either denying or
acknowledging the presence of floodplain on the development site;
   (G)   Copies of other stormwater related permits or permit applications as
required;
   (H)   A subsurface drainage investigation report; and
   (I)   An engineer’s estimate of probable construction cost of the stormwater
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 160.118) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.208 PLAN SET SUBMITTAL.
   All applicants for a stormwater permit shall provide the following basic
plan exhibits: site topographic map, general plan view drawing, sediment/
erosion control plan and a vicinity topographic map. Each exhibit may be on
more than one drawing for clarity. The specific information to be included on
each exhibit shall be as noted below.
   (A)   Site topographic map meeting the following requirements shall be
submitted:
      (1)   Map scales as one inch equals 100 feet (or less) and accurate to +/
- 0.5 feet;
      (2)   Existing and proposed contours on-site and within 100 feet of site;
      (3)   Existing and proposed drainage patterns and watershed boundaries;
      (4)   Delineation of pre-development regulatory floodplain/floodway
limits;
      (5)   Delineation of post-development regulatory floodplain/floodway
limits;
      (6)   Location of cross-sections and any other hydrologic/hydraulic
computer modeled features;
      (7)   Location of all on-site drain tiles;
      (8)   Boundary of all wetlands, lakes, ponds and the like with normal
water elevation noted;
      (9)   Location of all existing buildings and those to remain on the site
noted;
      (10)   Nearest base flood elevations;
      (11)   FEMA and any site-specific benchmarks (tied to county benchmarks)
used; and
      (12)   Highlight all contours used in the calculation of depressional
storage.
   (B)   General plan view drawing meeting the following requirements shall be
submitted:
      (1)   Drawing at the same scale as the site topographic map;
      (2)   Existing major and minor stormwater systems;
      (3)   Proposed major and minor stormwater systems;
      (4)   Design details for stormwater facilities (i.e., structure and
outlet work detail drawings and the like);
      (5)   Scheduled maintenance program for permanent stormwater facilities
including BMP measures;
      (6)   Planned maintenance tasks and schedule;
      (7)   Identification of entities responsible for maintenance;
      (8)   Permanent public access maintenance easements granted or dedicated
to, and accepted by, a government entity;
      (9)   Proposed regulatory floodplain and floodway location (with the base
flood and flood protection elevations noted); and
      (10)   Highlight all plan areas at elevations below the 100-year high
water elevation of site runoff storage facilities.
   (C)   Sediment and erosion control plan meeting the following requirements
shall be submitted:
      (1)   Drawings at the same scale as the site topographic map;
      (2)   Sediment/erosion control installation measures and schedule;
      (3)   Existing and proposed roadways, structures, parking lots,
driveways, sidewalks and other impervious surfaces;
      (4)   Limits of clearing and grading;
      (5)   Floodplain/floodway locations;
      (6)   Proposed buffer location, existing soil types, vegetation and land
cover conditions; and
      (7)   List of maintenance tasks and schedule for sediment/erosion control
measures.
   (D)   Vicinity topographic map meeting the following requirements shall be
submitted:
      (1)   Vicinity topographic map identifying all off-site areas draining to
the development and downstream to the receiving intermittent or perennial
stream. (A two foot contour map is preferred at a scale readable by the
reviewer but a U.S.G.S. quadrangle map is acceptable.);
      (2)   Watershed boundaries for areas draining through or from the
development;
      (3)   Soil types related to hydrologic soils group, vegetation and land
cover affecting runoff upstream of the site for any area draining through the
site;
      (4)   Location of development site within the major watershed(s); and
      (5)   Show the overland flow path from the downstream end of the
development to the receiving intermittent or perennial stream.
   (E)   The submittal shall not be considered complete until the preliminary
plat and final engineering drawings have been determined to be complete by the
village.
(Prior Code, § 160.119) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.209 STORMWATER SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The stormwater submittal shall include narrative discussion and
calculations to support a finding that the proposed development complies with
the technical requirements of the permitting authorities ordinance.
   (B)   The submittal shall consist of, at a minimum, the following material:
      (1)   A narrative description of the existing and proposed site drainage
patterns and conditions. Include description of off-site conditions, which help
to identify stormwater issues considered in the design;
      (2)   A schedule for implementation of the site stormwater plan;
      (3)   On-site and off-site runoff calculations which address the
following:
         (a)   Documentation of the procedures/ assumptions used to calculate
hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for sizing major and minor systems;
         (b)   Cross-section data for open channels;
         (c)   Hydraulic grade line and water surface elevations under design
flow conditions; and
         (d)   Hydraulic grade line and water surface elevations under base
flood flow conditions.
      (4)   Site runoff storage calculations, which address the following:
         (a)   Calculation of hydraulically connected impervious area and
corresponding retention volume;
         (b)   Documentation of the procedures/ assumptions used to calculate
hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for determining the allowable release rate;
         (c)   Documentation of the procedures/ assumptions used to calculate
on-site depressional storage;
         (d)   Documentation of the procedures/ assumptions used to calculate
hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for determining the storage volume;
         (e)   Elevation-area-storage data and calculations for site runoff
storage;
         (f)   Elevation-discharge data and calculations specifically related
to the outlet control structure depicted in the plan exhibits; and
         (g)   The general plan view drawing of §
57.208(B) shall indicate the areas of directly connected impervious areas and
any offsetting landscaped areas as defined in §
57.074.
(Prior Code, § 160.120) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.210 FLOODPLAIN SUBMITTAL.
   The applicant shall obtain approval from IDNR/OWR and FEMA for all new base
flood and floodway determinations for those cases in which their permitting
authority applies or as noted in §
57.131. The stormwater management permit will not be issued until such approval
is received. Documentation supporting a finding that the proposed development
is in compliance with §§
57.130 and
57.131 shall be submitted with the application. At a minimum, the following
material shall be submitted for approval with the application:
   (A)   Regulatory floodplain boundary determination:
      (1)   Provide source of flood profile information; and
      (2)   Provide all hydrologic and hydraulic study information for site-
specific floodplain studies, unnumbered Zone A area elevation determinations
and floodplain map revisions.
   (B)   Floodway hydrologic and hydraulic analyses for the following
conditions:
      (1)   Existing conditions (land used and stream systems);
      (2)   Proposed conditions (land used and stream systems);
      (3)   Tabular summary of 100-year flood elevations and discharges for
existing and proposed conditions;
      (4)   Calculations used for model development; and
      (5)   Hydraulic/hydrologic computer model input/output.
   (C)   Floodplain fill and compensatory storage calculations for below and
above ten-year flood elevation up to the base flood elevation:
      (1)   Tabular summary for below and above ten-year flood elevation of
fill, compensatory storage and compensatory storage ratios provided in proposed
plan; and
      (2)   Cross-sections used for the above calculations.
   (D)   Narrative discussion of floodproofing measures, including material
specifications, calculations and design details and operation summary; and
   (E)   Flood easements when required by this chapter or the applicable
certified community ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 160.121) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** SUBMITTAL PRIOR TO PERMIT ISSUANCE ****
§ 57.225 ADDITIONAL SUBMITTALS REQUIRED.
   The following additional submittals, as noted in §§
57.226 and
57.227, are required prior to issuance of the stormwater permit.
(Prior Code, § 160.122) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.226 PERFORMANCE SECURITY.
   Performance security in accordance with §§
57.335 through
57.338 shall be required prior to permit issuance.
(Prior Code, § 160.123) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.227 MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE AND FUNDING.
   A completed maintenance schedule for the stormwater management facilities
and special management areas, in accordance with §§
57.240 through
57.245, shall be submitted along with identification of the entity responsible
for maintenance and funding and back-up funding sources for maintenance in
accordance with §
57.245.
(Prior Code, § 160.124) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.228 RECORD DRAWINGS.
   The developer is required to submit record drawings of all permitted
stormwater facilities. The record drawings shall be signed and sealed by a
professional engineer or professional land surveyor who shall state that the
project as constructed is substantially in conformance with the project as
permitted. The record drawings shall include calculations verifying that the
volumes of detention and compensatory storage required in the permit have been
provided.
(Prior Code, § 160.125) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.229 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT AND APPEAL OF PERMIT DENIAL.
   The Administrator shall either issue or deny a stormwater permit within 30
days of receiving a complete permit application and all required submittals and
fees, unless additional time is granted by both the Administrator and the
applicant. When a permit is denied, the applicant may appeal the
Administrator’s decision to the Village Board provided such appeal is made in
writing within 15 days of the date of the notification of denial. The Village
Board shall render a decision to issue the stormwater permit, issue the permit
with conditions or uphold the Administrator’s denial of the permit. The Village
Board shall render its decision within 30 days of the appeal. Failure to take
action shall be deemed action to uphold the permit denial by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 160.126) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE ****
§ 57.240 LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless maintenance responsibility has been delegated to and accepted
by another qualified entity under this section, the owner shall maintain that
portion of a stormwater drainage system located upon their land. With the
approval of the Administrator, the stormwater drainage system, or specified
portions thereof, may be:
      (1)   Dedicated or otherwise transferred to and accepted by the
permitting community or other public entity;
      (2)   Conveyed or otherwise transferred to and accepted by a homeowners’
association, or similar entity, the members of which are to be the owners of
all of the lots or parcels comprising the development; or
      (3)   Conveyed to one or more persons or in one or more undivided
interests to one or more persons.
   (B)   Except for those portions of a stormwater drainage system to be
dedicated or otherwise transferred to the permitting authority or other public
entity, included in the application for a stormwater permit shall be a plan for
the long-term management, operation and maintenance of the stormwater drainage
system and a description of the sources of funding therefor. Amendments to the
plan must be approved by the Administrator.
   (C)   All property owners of a retention or detention pond and/or related
stormwater management facilities shall be required to comply with the
requirements of a pond self-inspection program requiring the submittal of an
annual inspection report of the condition of stormwater facilities and the
completion of any identified required maintenance activities. The requirements
of the program (including, but not limited to, inspectional and maintenance
standards) shall be provided by the Administrator and may be revised on an
annual basis or as deemed necessary by the Administrator from time to time. The
Administrator shall at all times maintain a current set for the program
requirements for public inspection and copying. Annual inspection reports shall
be submitted to the village on or before July of each year. Where an annual
inspection report submitted to the Administrator indicates that certain
maintenance activities are necessary in order to bring the subject retention
pond, detention pond or stormwater management facilities into compliance with
the program requirements and the otherwise applicable ordinances of the
village, the property owner submitting the report shall complete all such
required maintenance activities within 90 days of the date on which the village
receives the annual inspection report, and shall likewise furnish to the
village a statement within such 90-day period certifying that all maintenance
activities indicated by the relevant inspection report have been completed.
(Prior Code, § 160.135) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 14-1095, passed
2-19-2014)
§ 57.241 TRANSFER TO PERMITTING AUTHORITY OR OTHER PUBLIC ENTITY.
   If any portion of the stormwater drainage system is to be dedicated or
otherwise transferred to the permitting authority or other public entity under
§
57.240(A)(1), appropriate easements for ingress and egress to and maintenance
of such portions shall be reserved for the benefit of such entity on the final
plat.
(Prior Code, § 160.136) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.242 TRANSFER TO HOMEOWNERS’ OR SIMILAR ASSOCIATION.
   If any portion of the stormwater drainage system is to be conveyed or
otherwise transferred to a homeowners’ or similar association under §
57.240(A)(2), then:
   (A)   Appropriate easements for ingress and egress to and maintenance of
such portions shall be reserved for the benefit of such association and the
permitting authority on the final plat;
   (B)   The association shall be duly incorporated and a copy of the
certificate of incorporation, duly-recorded, and bylaws, and any amendment to
either of them, shall be delivered to the Administrator;
   (C)   The bylaws of the association shall, at a minimum, contain:
      (1)   A provision acknowledging and accepting the association’s
obligation to maintain certain portions of the stormwater drainage system as
required by this chapter;
      (2)   A mechanism for imposing an assessment upon the owners of all of
the lots or parcels comprising the development sufficient, at a minimum, to
provide for the maintenance of those portions of the stormwater drainage system
as required by this chapter and the payment of all taxes levied thereon;
      (3)   A provision adopting the plan of long-term maintenance set forth in
the application for a stormwater management permit, with approved amendments;
      (4)   A provision identifying the officer of the association responsible
for carrying out the obligations imposed upon the association under this
chapter, and an obligation to inform the Administrator of the name, address and
phone number of this officer and any changes thereto;
      (5)   A provision requiring the consent of the permitting authority to
any amendment of the bylaws changing any of the provisions of the bylaws
required by this chapter; and
      (6)   A provision requiring the consent of the permitting authority to
the dissolution of the association.
   (D)   Any conveyance or other instrument of transfer delivered under §
57.240(A)(2) shall include a covenant affirmatively imposing upon the
association the obligations set forth in this section and the association’s
affirmative acceptance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 160.137) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.243 CONVEYANCE TO ONE OR MORE PERSONS.
   If any portion of the stormwater drainage system is to be conveyed to one or
more persons under §
57.240(A)(3), then the following apply.
   (A)   Appropriate easements for ingress and egress to and maintenance of
such portions shall be reserved for the benefit of the permitting authority on
the final plat.
   (B)   The final plat shall contain a legend imposing the maintenance
obligations of this section upon the grantee and their successors in interest
as a covenant running with the land and incorporating by reference the plan of
long-term maintenance set forth in the application for a stormwater management
permit, with approved amendments.
   (C)   The final plat shall contain a legend reserving the right of the
permitting authority to enter upon the land to perform the maintenance required
in this section if the owner does not do so and to place a lien against the
land for the cost thereof.
   (D)   Any conveyance delivered under §
57.240(A)(3), and any subsequent conveyance, shall include a covenant
affirmatively imposing upon the grantee the obligations, restrictions and
provisions set forth in this section and the grantee’s affirmative acceptance
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 160.138) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.244 INCORPORATION OF MAINTENANCE OBLIGATIONS IN STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
PERMIT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be incorporated by reference in the
stormwater management permit and the applicant’s acceptance of the permit shall
be deemed to be the applicant’s acceptance and assumption of the obligations
imposed under this section. At the option of the Administrator, the stormwater
management permit may be recorded.
(Prior Code, § 160.139) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.245 FUNDING OF LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE OF STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of any application for a stormwater
management permit, unless the maintenance responsibility for the stormwater
drainage system to be constructed or installed in connection therewith has been
accepted by a public entity, the Administrator will require assurance of long-
term funding in a form found acceptable to the permitting authority. A
corporation with a bond rating of “A” or higher from a major investment firm
(i.e., Standard and Poor, Moody or equivalent) will be considered to have met
the long-term maintenance funding requirement. Absent some other form of
agreement, then the Administrator shall require the establishment of a special
service area, pursuant to 35 ILCS 200/27-5 et seq., either as the primary means
of providing for the long-term maintenance of the facilities, or as a backup
vehicle in the event the entity designated by the applicant as having primary
maintenance responsibility fails to adequately carry out its duties.
   (B)   If the establishment of a special service area is required, the
Administrator shall consider and approve a good faith estimate by the applicant
of the tax rate required to produce a tax to be levied upon all taxable
property within the area, sufficient for the long-term maintenance of the
facilities and submit the same to the permitting authority which shall
incorporate such rate into its enactment of the ordinances necessary for the
establishment of the area.
   (C)   On or before August 1 of each year thereafter, the Administrator shall
submit to the permitting authority a good faith estimate of the amount of tax
required to be levied upon all taxable property within the area for the next
fiscal year for the continued maintenance of the stormwater drainage system.
(Prior Code, § 160.140) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES ****
§ 57.260 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by 55 ILCS 5/5-1104 and 5-1062, the
village or county may, after 30 days’ notice to the owner or occupant, enter
upon any lands or waters within the village for the purpose of inspecting and/
or maintaining stormwater facilities or causing the removal of any obstruction
to an affected watercourse. Such requirement of notice shall not infringe upon
any rights of the village to take immediate actions to protect the public
health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 160.150) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.261 REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   Any development constructed pursuant to a stormwater management permit shall
be subject to periodic inspections by the Administrator, Director or their
designee to ensure conformity with permit provisions and conditions. Such
inspections may be conducted without notice at any time while the permit is
effective.
(Prior Code, § 160.151) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.262 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Violation. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses
to comply with or resists the enforcement of any provision of this chapter
(“chapter violation”) or any requirement or condition in any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter (“permit violation”), and, in the case of a permit
violation, fails to correct such violation, omission or neglect, or cease such
disobedience, refusal or resistance after notice and reinspection as provided
in division (B) below, shall be guilty of an offense under this chapter.
   (B)   Permit violation; notice. Whenever the Administrator or Director
determines that a permit violation exists, they shall give notice of the
violation in the manner prescribed in §
57.320 to the permittee. Such notice shall state the nature of the violation
and fix a date not less than ten days after the date of the notice when the
site will be reinspected.
(Prior Code, § 160.152) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.263 OFFENSES; PENALTIES; REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of an offense under this chapter shall pay a
civil fine in an amount not less than $25 and not more than $750. Each calendar
day during which such violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. Where monetary penalties are imposed for violations of §§
57.090 through
57.094 by regional, state or federal agencies, the amount of these other agency
fines will be offset against the monetary penalties for violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   In addition to any fine imposed under division (A) above, the
Administrator or the Director may revoke any stormwater management permit
issued to such person.
   (C)   In addition to any fine imposed under division (A) above or action
taken under division (B) above, the Administrator or the Director may issue an
order requiring the suspension of any further work on the site. Such stop-work
order shall be in writing, shall indicate the reason for its issuance and shall
specify the action, if any, required to be taken in order to resume work. One
copy of the stop-work order shall be posted on the site in a conspicuous place
and one copy shall be delivered in the manner prescribed in §
57.320 to the permittee, if any, or if none, to the person in whose name the
site was last assessed for taxes as disclosed by the records of the Supervisor
of Assessments.
   (D)   In the enforcement of this chapter, the Administrator or the Director
may bring any action, legal or equitable, including an action for injunctive
relief that may be necessary.
   (E)   Failure to timely comply with the requirements of division (C) above
will result in the following fines: $1,000 assessed monthly, up to a maximum of
$5,000 per annum, for failure to submit the annual inspection report, and
$1,000 assessed monthly, for failure to timely complete any maintenance
activities identified in the completed annual inspection report or to timely
submit a required statement of completion of such activities to the
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 160.153) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 14-1095, passed
2-19-2014)
§ 57.264 VIOLATIONS OF §§ 57.090 THROUGH 57.094.
   (A)   An advisory committee, called the Agricultural Review Advisory
Committee, shall be appointed by the SMC. The Committee shall be comprised of
three members actively farming 60 or more contiguous acres in the county. The
Committee will also include representatives of the Soil and Water Conservation
District, the Natural Resources Conservation Service and the Farm Bureau.
   (B)   All complaints and chapter violations related to §§
57.090 through
57.094 shall be reviewed by the Agricultural Review Advisory Committee, who
shall render an opinion to the Village Board on the validity of the complaint,
remedies and penalties to be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 160.154) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 57.275 SCOPE OF REGULATION.
   This chapter applies to all development within the village, including that
under the control of any governmental entity, agency or authority. When the
village shall undertake development in the regulatory floodway, or regulatory
floodplain where no regulatory floodway has been designated, shall obtain a
permit from IDNR/OWR prior to issuance of a stormwater management permit. All
units of local government shall obtain stormwater management permits from the
village for all development projects within corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 160.165) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.276 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to:
      (1)   Development which has been substantially completed before the
effective date of the chapter; and
      (2)   Development which has been determined to be exempt by the village.
   (B)   Nonconforming structures shall not be replaced or enlarged in any
manner unless such replacement or enlargement conforms to the requirements of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 160.166) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.277 COMMUNITY’S LIST OF PROPOSED EXEMPT DEVELOPMENTS.
   The village’s list of exempt developments is included as
Chapter 57, Appendix D, Table 4. After the effective date, the list may not be
changed without review and recommendation by the Committee, which shall be
forwarded to the County Board for approval.
(Prior Code, § 160.167) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.278 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be liberally construed to protect the health,
welfare, safety and the environment of the residents of the village and to
effectuate the purposes of this chapter and the enabling legislation.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to consent to, license, permit
to locate, construct or maintain any structure, site, facility or operation, or
to carry on any trade, industry, occupation or activity.
   (C)   When provisions of this chapter differ from any other applicable law,
statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, the more stringent provision shall
apply.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter are cumulative of all other laws,
statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations which relate to the subject matter
hereof and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, nothing in this
chapter shall be construed as a limitation upon the application or enforcement
of any such law, statute, ordinance, rule or regulation. To the greatest extent
possible, the provisions of this chapter shall be construed to be consistent
with the provisions of such other laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or
regulations, and with each other, to the end that all such provisions may be
given their fullest application.
(Prior Code, § 160.168) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.279 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection provided by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based upon engineering experience and
scientific methods of study. Increased flooding may result from causes beyond
the control of any governmental authority. This chapter does not, therefore,
guarantee that areas outside the floodplain or permitted land uses within the
floodplain will be free from flooding and associated damages.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or applied in any manner to
create liability on the part of or a cause of action against the county, any
municipality or other governmental authority, or any elected official, or any
officer, agent or employee of any of the foregoing, or any certified review
specialist for any flood damage resulting from reliance on the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 160.169) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.280 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to undertake any development
without first securing a stormwater management permit as required by this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate, disobey, omit, neglect
and refuse to comply with or resist enforcement of any provision of this
chapter or any condition of a stormwater management permit.
(Prior Code, § 160.170) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006) Penalty, see §
57.999
§ 57.281 SEVERABILITY.
   The several provisions of this chapter shall be severable in accordance with
the following rules.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision
of this chapter.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge to be invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter, to a particular parcel of land, a
particular structure or a particular development, such judgment shall not
affect the application of said provision to any other land, structure or
development.
(Prior Code, § 160.171) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.282 REPEALER.
   This chapter repeals the original ordinance or resolution, which was adopted
to meet the national flood insurance program regulations, but is not intended
to replace any ordinance or resolution passed in order to establish initial
eligibility for the national flood insurance program.
(Prior Code, § 160.172) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.283 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect for all purposes, and its effective date
shall be March 1, 2006.
(Prior Code, § 160.173) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** VARIANCES ****
§ 57.295 PURPOSE.
   In order to provide a narrowly circumscribed means by which relief may be
granted when strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter is
impossible or impracticable, variances from the specific provisions of this
chapter may be granted according to the standards set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 160.185) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.296 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the owner or developer and/or their
engineer to review this chapter and identify any and all variance. An
application for a variance, prepared by the owner or developer’s licensed
professional engineer and signed by the owner or developer of the development
to which it relates, shall be filed with the Administrator. No application for
a variance will be accepted for filing unless it relates to a previously or
contemporaneously filed application for a stormwater management permit.
Applications for a variance shall be filed in such number of duplicate copies
as the Administrator may designate by administrative order. No action will be
taken on an application for a variance unless it and the corresponding
application for a stormwater management permit to which it relates are complete
as determined by the Administrator. The Administrator shall send a copy of the
complete application to the Director and to all other certified communities
within the same watershed. Applications for a variance need not be made upon
any specific form, but shall contain the information set forth in division (B)
below.
   (B)   An application for variance shall set forth:
      (1)   The common addresses and legal descriptions of all lands comprising
the development;
      (2)   The names and addresses of all owners of record of the legal title
of all lands comprising the development;
      (3)   If title to any of the land comprising the development is held in
trust, the names and addresses of all beneficiaries of the trust;
      (4)   The names and addresses of the developers of the land, if different
from the owner;
      (5)   The names and addresses of all consultants retained by the
developer in connection with the application for a variance;
      (6)   The names and addresses of all property owners within 250 feet of
the development;
      (7)   The specific feature or features of the development that require a
variance;
      (8)   The specific provision of this chapter from which a variance is
sought and the precise extent of the variance therefrom;
      (9)   A statement of the characteristics of the development that prevent
compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (10)   A statement that the variance requested is the minimum variance
necessary to permit the development; and
      (11)   A statement as to how the variance requested satisfies the
standards set forth in §
57.299.
(Prior Code, § 160.186) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.297 APPLICATION FEE.
   With the filing of the application for a variance, the applicant shall pay
the fee prescribed by the village.
(Prior Code, § 160.187) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.298 PUBLIC HEARING.
   When the application is complete, the administrator will so notify the
applicant and will schedule a public hearing on the application before the
Oversight Committee, as applicable. Not more than 30 nor less than 15 days
before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be sent by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the applicant, to the Director, to all property owners
within 250 feet of the development as disclosed in the application and to each
certified community within the same watershed as the development and to the
Committee. Within the same time period, notice of the hearing shall be
published at least once in a newspaper published within the certified community
having jurisdiction over the application, or within the county if the county
has jurisdiction over the application. If no newspaper is published within the
certified community, then the notice shall be published in a newspaper with a
general circulation within the certified community, which is published in the
county. The notices given under the section shall set forth the common name,
address and legal description of the development and a brief description of the
variance is requested.
(Prior Code, § 160.188) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.299 GRANTING OF VARIANCES.
   The Oversight Committee shall not recommend nor shall the Village Board
grant a variance for a project from the provisions of this chapter unless the
variance is consistent with the purpose of this chapter (§
57.001) and meets the following standards based upon substantial evidence
submitted at the hearing.
   (A)   The variance will not increase measurably the probability of flood
damage to insurable structures.
   (B)   The variance requested is the minimum required considering each of the
following statements of underlying intent of this chapter and there are no
means other than the requested variance by which the alleged hardships can be
avoided or remedied to a degree sufficient to permit the reasonable
continuation of the development.
      (1)   Detention of stormwater shall also contribute to the improvement of
the quality of stormwater runoff.
      (2)   The volume of detention storage provided in open air vegetated
facilities is maximized consistent with other land use site constraints
including zoning requirements essential for the proposed development.
      (3)   Conveyance of stormwater from the project shall not increase peak
discharges from existing off-site conveyance facilities beyond design capacity
for any storm event from the two-year to the 100-year flood frequency.
      (4)   High quality natural areas shall be preserved on the site,
including, without limiting, the generality of the foregoing, stands of native
trees, existing wetlands, natural floodplain storage or other valuable
environmental and biological resources.
   (C)   The variance is not requested solely for the purpose of increasing the
density of the development nor impervious areas on the site.
   (D)   The variance is not requested solely as a result of economic hardship.
   (E)   If applicable, the variance is required due to unique, natural
topographical features of the site.
   (F)   The applicant’s circumstances are not self-imposed.
(Prior Code, § 160.189) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.300 RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The Administrator or their designee shall review the application for a
variance and present their written recommendations to the Oversight Committee
at the public hearing.
   (B)   Not more than 45 days after the close of the hearing, the Oversight
Committee shall forward the application with its written recommendations to the
Village Board. The written recommendations of the Oversight Committee, when
forwarded, shall be accompanied by written findings of fact with respect to
each of the considerations set forth in §
57.299 with citations to the evidence taken at the public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 160.190) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.301 DECISION.
   The Village Board shall grant the variation, grant the variation with
modifications or conditions or deny the variation in writing within 45 days
after receipt of the written recommendations of the Oversight Committee; but in
the event the Village Board does not act as aforesaid, then the application is
denied.
(Prior Code, § 160.191) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.302 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   A variance less than or different from that requested may be granted
when the record supports the applicant’s right to some relief, but not to the
relief requested.
   (B)   In granting a variance, the Village Board may impose such specific
conditions and limitations concerning any matter relating to the purposes and
objectives of this chapter on the applicant as may be necessary or appropriate.
   (C)   Whenever any variance is granted subject to any condition or
limitation to be met by the applicant, upon meeting such conditions, the
applicant shall file evidence to that effect with the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 160.192) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 57.315 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Village Board shall determine policy related to this chapter
subject to the requirements of the County Board.
   (B)   The Director and Administrator shall administer this chapter. In
performing their duties, the Director and the Administrator may delegate and
oversee enforcement of responsibilities to any named designee.
   (C)   Each community shall remain solely responsible for its standing in the
national flood insurance program, including:
      (1)   The maintenance of all records and the submission of all reports
required for eligibility in the program, including elevation certificates,
floodproofing certificates and lowest floor elevations; and
      (2)   The notification of the Director, FEMA and IDNR/OWR of any proposed
amendment to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 160.200) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.316 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Director shall:
   (A)   Supervise the enforcement of this chapter;
   (B)   Supervise the development, revision and implementation of the Plan for
approval by the Committee and the County Board;
   (C)   Supervise the review of complex stormwater management permits if the
village requests such assistance;
   (D)   Notify all of the communities in the county, FEMA, IDNR/OWR, USACOE,
the State Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency of any amendments to the plan or to this chapter; and
   (E)   Review variance requests for the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 160.201) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.317 DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Administrator shall:
   (A)   Receive a listing of all required federal, state, regional and county
permit applications filed for the project prior to issuing a permit under this
chapter for areas covered by other stormwater related jurisdictions. The
Administrator may request copies of the stormwater related permit applications;
   (B)   Ascertain whether any floodplains/floodways exist on any site that is
the subject of an application for a permit under this chapter and whether or
not any new development is within the SFHA;
   (C)   Review permit applications and determine whether to issue or deny
permits;
   (D)   Ensure that the required notice of an application for a variance has
been given in accordance with §§
57.320 and
57.321;
   (E)   Notify an applicant for a variance that such variance may result in
increased rates for flood insurance;
   (F)   Notify the Director of an application for a variance CLOMR or LOMR;
   (G)   Provide for inspections of developments as required by this chapter;
   (H)   Investigate complaints of violations of this chapter within the
village;
   (I)   Notify violators within regulatory floodplains that failure to comply
with the provisions of the national flood insurance program could make them
ineligible to receive flood insurance;
   (J)   Initiate any proceeding necessary to enforce this chapter within the
village;
   (K)   Advise, consult and cooperate with other governmental agencies to
promote the purposes of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain copies of all applications and submittals, federal and state
permits, variances, CLOMR, LOMR, CLOMA, LOMA and all documentation associated
with any of the foregoing for public inspection;
   (M)   Maintain documentation and data on the cost of any improvement to a
structure in the floodplain in order to enforce the provisions of this chapter
pertaining to substantial improvements to such structures; and
   (N)   Notify adjacent communities in writing 30 days prior to issuing a
permit for the alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 160.202) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.318 REPRESENTATIVE CAPACITY.
   In all cases when any action is taken by the Director or the Administrator
or their duly appointed designee to enforce the provisions of this chapter,
such action shall be taken either in the name of the county or the village as
the case may be, and neither the Director nor the Administrator, nor their
designee in so acting, shall be rendered personally liable.
(Prior Code, § 160.203) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.319 OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission has been designated by the Village Board
to perform the duties assigned to the Oversight Committee in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 160.204) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.320 SERVICE.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, service of any notice or instrument under
this chapter may be made upon any person in one of the following manners:
   (A)   By certified mail/return receipt requested, postage prepaid and
addressed to the address then on file for such person, if any, or if none, to
such person’s last known address; or
   (B)   By any method prescribed under the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure.
(Prior Code, § 160.205) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.321 PUBLICATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, publication of any notice or other
instrument under this chapter shall be made by publishing such notice or other
instrument once in a newspaper published within the village (or, if no
newspapers are published within the community, then a newspaper published in
the county and having a general circulation within the village), such
publication being not less than 15 or more than 30 days before the hearing or
other event to which the publication relates.
(Prior Code, § 160.206) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** PERFORMANCE SECURITY ****
§ 57.335 GENERAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   As security to the village for the performance by the developer of the
developer’s obligations to complete the construction of any stormwater
facilities required by the stormwater management permit; to pay all costs, fees
and charges due from the developer pursuant to the permitting authorities of
this chapter; and to otherwise faithfully perform the developer’s undertakings
pursuant to this chapter or the applicable certified community ordinance, the
developer shall, prior to issuance of a stormwater management permit:
      (1)   Post a development security as provided in §
57.336; and
      (2)   Post a sediment and erosion control security as provided in §
57.337, if a sediment and erosion control plan is required pursuant to §
57.205 through
57.210.
   (B)   The developer shall bear the full cost and responsibility of securing
and maintaining the securities required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 160.215) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.336 DEVELOPMENT SECURITY.
   (A)   A development security shall be posted and shall include:
      (1)   A schedule, agreed upon by the developer and the Administrator, for
the completion of the construction of any stormwater facilities required by the
permit;
      (2)   An irrevocable letter of credit, or such other adequate security as
the Administrator may approve, in an amount equal to not less than 125% of the
estimated probable cost to complete the construction of any stormwater
facilities required by the stormwater management permit, which estimated
probable cost shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer and shall
be approved by the Administrator;
      (3)   A statement signed by the applicant granting the Director or the
Administrator the right to draw on the security and the right to enter the
development site to complete required work in the event that work is not
completed according to the work schedule; and
      (4)   A statement signed by the applicant that the applicant shall
indemnify the village and the Department for any additional costs incurred
attributable to the concurrent activities of or conflicts between the
applicant’s contractor and the village’s or Department’s remedial contractor at
the site.
   (B)   The security required by this section shall be maintained and renewed
by the applicant, and shall be held in escrow by the Administrator until the
conditions set forth in this section or other applicable provisions are
satisfied.
   (C)   The Administrator may approve periodic reductions in the letter of
credit based on progress of construction. However, not more than 90% of the
security provided for in this section may be released prior to approval of
record drawings and final inspection. A minimum of 10% of the security shall be
retained for a period of time not less than one year after completion of
construction of all stormwater facilities required by the permit.
(Prior Code, § 160.216) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.337 SEDIMENT AND EROSION CONTROL SECURITY.
   (A)   (1)   If a sediment and erosion control plan is required pursuant to
§§
57.205 through
57.210, then a sediment and erosion control security shall be required.
      (2)   Such a security shall include:
         (a)   An irrevocable letter of credit, or such other adequate security
as the Director or the Administrator shall approve, in an amount equal to not
less than 125% of the estimated probable cost to install and maintain the
sediment and erosion control measures, which estimated probable cost shall be
approved by the Director or the Administrator; and
         (b)   A statement signed by the applicant granting the Director or the
Administrator, as applicable, the right to draw on the security and the right
to enter the development site to complete sediment and erosion control measures
in the event that such measures are not installed and/or maintained according
to the established schedule.
   (B)   The security required by this section shall be maintained and renewed
by the applicant, and shall be held in escrow by the Director or the
Administrator, as applicable, until the conditions set forth in this section
are satisfied.
   (C)   After completion of construction, establishment of vegetation, removal
of all sediment from stormwater facilities and final inspection and approval by
the Director or Administrator, as applicable, 100% of the sediment and erosion
control security shall be released.
(Prior Code, § 160.217) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
§ 57.338 LETTERS OF CREDIT.
   (A)   Letters of credit posted pursuant to §§
57.335,
57.336 and
57.337 shall be in a form satisfactory to the Administrator.
   (B)   Each letter of credit shall be from a lending institution: acceptable
to the Administrator, as applicable; having capital resources of at least
$10,000,000, or such other amount acceptable to the Director or the
Administrator; with an office in the county; and insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.
   (C)   Each letter of credit shall, at a minimum, provide that:
      (1)   It shall not be canceled without the prior written consent of the
Administrator; and shall not expire without written notification of the
Administrator at least 45 days prior to expiration;
      (2)   It shall not require the consent of the developer prior to any draw
on it by the Director or the Administrator; and
      (3)   If at any time it will expire within 45 or any lesser number of
days, and if it has not been renewed and the renewal submitted to the
Administrator, and if any applicable obligation of the developer for which its
security remains uncompleted or is unsatisfactory, then the Director or the
Administrator may, without notice and without being required to take any
further action of any nature whatsoever, call and draw down the letter of
credit and thereafter either hold all proceeds as security for the satisfactory
completion of all such obligations or employ the proceeds to complete all such
obligations and reimburse the county or the village for any and all costs and
expenses, including legal fees and administrative costs, incurred by the county
or the village, as the Director or the Administrator shall determine.
   (D)   If at any time the Administrator determines that the funds remaining
in the letter of credit are not, or may not be, sufficient to pay in full the
remaining unpaid cost of all stormwater facility construction or sediment and
erosion control measures, then, within ten days following a demand by the
Administrator, the developer shall increase the amount of the letter of credit
to an amount determined by the Administrator to be sufficient to pay such
unpaid costs. Failure to so increase the amount of the security shall be
grounds for the Director or the Administrator to draw down the entire remaining
balance of the letter of credit.
   (E)   If at any time the Administrator determines that the bank issuing the
letter of credit is without capital resources of at least $10,000,000, is
unable to meet any federal or state requirement for reserves, is insolvent, is
in danger of becoming any of the foregoing or is otherwise in danger of being
unable to honor such letter of credit at any time during its term, or if the
Administrator otherwise reasonably deems the bank to be insecure, then the
Administrator shall have the right to demand that the developer provide a
replacement letter of credit from a bank satisfactory to the Director or the
Administrator. Such replacement letter of credit shall be deposited with the
Director or the Administrator not later than ten days following such demand.
Upon such deposit, the Director or the Administrator shall surrender the
original letter of credit to the developer.
   (F)   If the developer fails or refuses to meet fully any of its obligations
under this chapter or the applicable certified community ordinance, then the
Director or the Administrator may, in their discretion, draw on and retain all
or any of the funds remaining in the letter of credit. The Director or the
Administrator thereafter shall have the right to take any action they deem
reasonable and appropriate to mitigate the effects of such failure or refusal,
and to reimburse the county or the certified community from the proceeds of the
letter of credit for all of its costs and expenses, including legal fees and
administrative expenses, resulting from or incurred as a result of the
developer’s failure or refusal to fully meet its obligations under this chapter
or the applicable certified community ordinance. If the funds remaining in the
letter of credit are insufficient to repay fully the county or the certified
community for all such costs and expenses, and to maintain a cash reserve equal
to the required letter of credit during the entire time such letter of credit
should have been maintained by the developer, then the developer shall, upon
demand of the Director or the Administrator therefor, immediately deposit with
the Director or the Administrator such additional funds as the Director or the
Administrator determines are necessary to fully repay such costs and expenses
and to establish such cash reserve.
(Prior Code, § 160.218) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
**** FEE-IN-LIEU OF ON-SITE DETENTION ****
§ 57.350 FEE-IN-LIEU OF ON-SITE DETENTION.
   (A)   (1)   All single-family residential developments under five acres in
size and all other development under one acre in size may pay a fee of $100,000
for each acre-foot of detention which would be required under this chapter
rather than installing detention facilities on the property, unless
specifically directed to do otherwise by the Village Engineer. The village also
shall have the option for larger properties of requiring a fee of $100,000 for
each acre-foot of detention needed in lieu of the applicant building a basin
on-site provided the property will discharge stormwater to the village’s storm
sewer system and the applicant can demonstrate that the redevelopment will not
increase the risk to downstream properties of flooding. Fee-in-lieu of solely
due to financial constraints is not allowed. In addition, a redevelopment
project requesting fee-in-lieu of detention must demonstrate a net benefit in
water quality will be realized. The $100,000 fee may be adjusted yearly by the
Construction Cost Index (CCI).
      (2)   The applicant may provide the village with a detailed, verifiable
cost estimate for actually providing the required storage. If the Village
Engineer concurs with the cost estimate, the fee set for fee-in-lieu of
detention will be determined by the lessor of the $100,000 per acre-foot or
part thereof or the verifiable cost of providing the required storage.
      (3)   To encourage redevelopment of properties that have been within the
village limits for a minimum of 15 years, the Village Manager may allow a
discount of up to 90% for projects if there is no increase in impervious area
between the existing development and the proposed redevelopment.
      (4)   In instances where regional benefits and economics of scale can be
achieved, it is encouraged for adjacent property owners to utilize a common
regional detention basin. Special fee districts may be established for areas
where a regional stormwater management plan has been approved by the Village
Board. Fee-in-lieu of detention for the detention volume required for the two-
year, 24-hour storm shall require a variance for sites with aggregate
development or re-development greater than 20 acres subsequent to the effective
date of the WCSMO unless tributary to a regional stormwater management system
approved by the Village Board.
      (5)   At the discretion of the Village Manager, water quality BMPs may be
used as credit towards the fee-in-lieu of assuming all other criteria are met.
   (B)   The following are fee-in-lieu of detention procedures.
      (1)   The Administrator may require, or the applicant may submit, a
written request for the payment of a fee-in-lieu of on-site detention to
fulfill all or part of the on-site detention requirement in accordance with §
57.016 a request for fee-in-lieu of on-site detention shall be either rejected
or approved within 45 days of the written request unless additional engineering
studies are required.
      (2)   Approval of a request for fee-in-lieu of on-site detention on a
development site shall be determined by the Administrator.
      (3)   A fund will be maintained by the village for each of the major
watersheds for the purpose of identifying and controlling all revenues and
expenses related to stormwater drainage services resulting from fee-in-lieu of
on-site detention approvals. All monies collected for fee-in-lieu of on-site
detention shall be deposited in these funds and may only be used for purposes
related to stormwater management as noted in division (B)(4) below.
      (4)   Fee-in-lieu of on-site detention revenues from development site may
be used to plan, design or construct an upgrade to existing or future
stormwater management systems if the upgrade is consistent with a basin plan,
floodplain study or stormwater system improvement that has been approved by the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 160.225) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 19-1532, passed
1-16-2019)
§ 57.999 PENALTY.
   No person shall undertake or continue any development activity contrary to
or in violation of any terms of §§
57.150 through
57.163. Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
57.150 through
57.163 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each day during which any
violation of any of the provisions of §§
57.150 through
57.163 is committed, continued or permitted shall constitute a separate
offense. Upon conviction of any such violation, such person, partnership or
corporation shall be punished by a fine not less than $250 nor more than $5,000
for each offense. In addition to any other penalty authorized by this section,
any person, partnership or corporation convicted of violating any of the
provisions of §§
57.150 through
57.163 shall be required to restore the site to the condition existing prior to
commission of the violation, or to bear the expense of such restoration.
(Prior Code, § 160.100) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
APPENDIX A: TABLE 1. WILL COUNTY STORMWATER TECHNICAL
GUIDANCE MANUAL RAINFALL DEPTHS AND INTENSITIES
Updated Bulletin 70 (March 2019) - Rainfall Depths and
Intensities for NE Illinois Section
         Frequency
Duration 2-year 5-year 10-year 25-year 50-year 100-year 500-year
Updated Bulletin 70 (March 2019) - Rainfall Depths and Intensities for NE Illinois
Section
         Frequency
Duration 2-year    5-year    10-year   25-year   50-year     100-year    500-year
         (in) (in/ (in) (in) (in) (in/ (in) (in/ (in)  (in/  (in)  (in/  (in)  (in/
              hr)                 hr)       hr)        hr)         hr)         hr)
5 min    0.40 4.80 0.52 6.24 0.62 7.44 0.77 9.24 0.90  10.80 1.03  12.36 1.35  16.20
10 min   0.70 4.20 0.90 5.40 1.08 6.48 1.35 8.10 1.58  9.48  1.80  10.80 2.36  14.16
15 min   0.90 3.60 1.16 4.64 1.39 5.56 1.74 6.96 2.03  8.12  2.31  9.24  3.03  12.12
30 min   1.24 2.48 1.59 3.18 1.91 3.82 2.39 4.78 2.78  5.56  3.17  6.34  4.16  8.32
1 hour   1.57 1.57 2.02 2.02 2.42 2.42 3.03 3.03 3.53  3.53  4.03  4.03  5.28  5.28
2 hour   1.94 0.97 2.49 1.25 2.99 1.50 3.74 1.87 4.35  2.18  4.97  2.49  6.52  3.26
3 hour   2.14 0.71 2.75 0.92 3.30 1.10 4.13 1.38 4.80  1.60  5.49  1.83  7.20  2.40
6 hour   2.51 0.42 3.23 0.54 3.86 0.64 4.84 0.81 5.63  0.94  6.43  1.07  8.43  1.41
12 hour  2.91 0.24 3.74 0.31 4.48 0.37 5.61 0.47 6.53  0.54  7.46  0.62  9.78  0.82
18 hour  3.14 0.17 4.04 0.22 4.84 0.27 6.06 0.34 7.05  0.39  8.06  0.45  10.57 0.59
24 hour  3.34 0.14 4.30 0.18 5.15 0.21 6.45 0.27 7.50  0.31  8.57  0.36  11.24 0.47
48 hour  3.66 0.08 4.71 0.10 5.62 0.12 6.99 0.15 8.13  0.17  9.28  0.19  12.10 0.25
72 hour  3.97 0.06 5.08 0.07 6.05 0.08 7.49 0.10 8.64  0.12  9.85  0.14  12.81 0.18
120 hour 4.42 0.04 5.63 0.05 6.68 0.06 8.16 0.07 9.39  0.08  10.66 0.09  13.81 0.12
240 hour 5.60 0.02 7.09 0.03 8.25 0.03 9.90 0.04 11.26 0.05  12.65 0.05  16.00 0.07
 
Note: Value in italics and shard for the 5-30 min durations are derived using
1989/2019 Bulletin 70 ratios (X-hr/24-hr), since the ratios are the same for
the updated 2019 Bulletin 70 as the old. These were derived because Tables 4
and 5 contained in the ISWS Contract Report 2019-05 “Frequency Distributions of
Heavy Precipitation in Illinois-Updated Bulleting 70” did not include them.
(Prior Code, Ch. 160, App. A) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 19-1532,
passed 1-16-2019; Ord. 19-1603, passed 12-18-2019)
APPENDIX B: TABLE 2. SUMMARY OF APPLICABLE CHAPTER SECTIONS
FOR DEVELOPMENTS IN FLOODPLAINS
 
 
When This   All Development Must Meet the Requirements of Sections (Except as
Occurs on   Noted)
Development 57.131 57.132 57.132 57.132 57.132 57.132 57.133 57.134 57.135 57.136
site
                   (E),
Floodplains X      (F)    - -    - -    - -    X      - -    - -    - -    - -
                   only
Regulatory                                            X                    Bridge &
Floodplains X      X      X      X      X      - -    (Note  - -    - -    Culvert
                                                      1)                   Projects
Regulatory                       X
Floodways   X      X      X      (Note  X      - -    X      X      - -    - -
                                 2)
Riverine
Regulatory  X      X      X      X      X      - -    - -    - -    X      - -
Floodplains
 
Note 1. Riverine, floodplains only
Note 2. For buildings meeting appropriate use criteria
(Prior Code, Ch. 160, App. B) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
APPENDIX C: TABLE 3. PERMIT SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
 
 Required Submittals (refer to sections listed for specific material)
 Section No./Description
 57.207      57.208    57.209     57.210     57.226      57.227       57.228
 Application Plan Set  Stormwater Floodplain Performance Maintenance  Record
 and Project Submittal Submittal  Submittal  Security    Schedule and Drawings
 Overview                                                Funding
             Required Submittals (refer to sections listed for specific material)
             Section No./Description
             57.207      57.208    57.209     57.210     57.226      57.227      57.228
             Application Plan Set  Stormwater Floodplain Performance Maintenance Record
             and Project Submittal Submittal  Submittal  Security    Schedule    Drawings
             Overview                                                and Funding
All
requiring a  X           X                               X           X           X
permit
All
developments
on sites     X           X                    X          X           X           X
with
floodplains
All
developments
on sites
with or      X           X                               X           X           X
adjacent to
waters of
the U.S.
All
applications X           X         X          If on site X           X           X
requesting
variances
All
requiring    X           X         X                     X           X           X
detention/
retention
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 160, App. C) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
APPENDIX D: TABLE 4. VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE LIST OF
PROPOSED EXEMPT DEVELOPMENTS
 
Industrial
Pinnacle Business Park (Pizzuti)
ProLogis Park 55 (ProLogis)
All of Windham Lakes, including the original area north of I-55 and the
“Southwest Quad” area (Panattoni)
Crossroad Distribution Center (Duke-Weeks)
Ridgewood Business Park (Baarstad)
Romeoville Commercial/Sunrise Business Park (Redeihs)
Airport Industrial Center (Wagner)
Marquette Business Park (Andersen)
Boldt Park (Ryan)
Romeoville Wastewater Treatment Plants No. 1 and No. 2
Romeoville 5-ac Site — REMA and Salt Dome
Len Cox & Sons
Commercial
Romeo Towne Center (Dominicks)
Carillon Court
Normantown Center (Premiere Development)
Sam’s Club site
Jewel & outlots
Pizzuti commercial area at NE corner Weber & Airport
Creekside commercial (Pasquinelli)
Ron March commercial at SW corner Weber & Airport
Grand Haven Marketplace (Continental Props) at NW corner of Weber & Renwick
Commercial Development (Gierczyk) — NE corner of Weber Rd and Renwick Rd.
Lakewood Falls 7C commercial at NW corner of Weber & Grand Haven Circle
Lakewood Center Retail (Beechan) at NE corner of Airport and Budler
Downtown Romeoville (limits incorporated by “Romeoville Downtown Redevelopment
Study”)
Residential
Dollinger Farm (Sharp Homes) at SE corner I-55 & Airport Rd
Fieldstone (Pasquinelli)
Lakewood Falls 7
Grand Haven
Bigelow - Airport Rd property
Creekside (Pasquinelli)
Nottingham Ridge (Neumann)
Meadowdale Estates (GAT / Trapp)
Haley Meadows
Heritage Place
(Prior Code, Ch. 160, App. D) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
APPENDIX E: FIGURE 1. DETENTION VOLUME VS. PERCENT IMPERVIOUS
WILL COUNTY RAINFALL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4563.png]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 160, App. E) (Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006)
APPENDIX F: FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) AND FLOOD
INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) PANELS
 
Community Name:   Village of Romeoville
Flood Insurance Study - Effective February 15, 2019
Map Panel         Map Revised:
17197C0045G      February 15, 2019
17179C0058G      February 15, 2019
17197C0061G      February 15, 2019
17197C0062G      February 15, 2019
17197C0065G      February 15, 2019
17197C0070G      February 15, 2019
17197C0135G      February 15, 2019
17197C0154G      February 15, 2019
17197C0155G      February 15, 2019
17197C0156G      February 15, 2019
(Prior Code, Ch. 160, App. F) (Ord. 19-1532, passed 1-16-2019)
CHAPTER 58: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
58.001   Purpose
   
58.002   Definition
   
58.003   Accumulation of refuse prohibited
   
58.004   Refuse storage; containers required
   
58.005   Location of containers
   
58.006   Refuse collection
   
58.007   Time of collection
   
58.008   Refuse collector
   
58.009   Burning refuse
   
58.010   Refuse on public way prohibited
Curbside Recycling Program
   
58.025   Establishment
   
58.026   Definitions
   
58.027   Ownership and misuse of recycling containers
   
58.028   Placement and storage of recycling containers
   
58.029   Cost of recycling program
   
58.030   Separation of recyclables and placement for removal
   
58.031   Collection by unauthorized person
   
58.032   Recycling Committee
Scavenging
   
58.045   Unauthorized disturbance of garbage, waste, refuse or recyclables
 
   
58.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 58.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to regulate and control the
accumulation, removal and disposal of refuse and to eliminate unhealthy,
unsanitary and unsightly conditions in the village.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 245, passed 11-9-1966)
§ 58.002 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REFUSE. Includes garbage, such as all animal debris, fruit or vegetable
matter and all other substances capable of decay, fermentation or putrefaction,
leaves, grass, paper, waste paper, rags, floor sweepings, tin cans, glassware,
crockery, bottles, ashes, cinders, clinkers and other household waste with the
exception of stone, dirt or waste material resulting from landscaping and the
remodeling of old or construction of new buildings. The illustrative inclusions
above are by way of example rather than limitation.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 245, passed 11-9-1966)
§ 58.003 ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   No occupant, person, owner, owner’s agent or tenant of any private or public
premise shall permit refuse to accumulate on the premises, except in covered
containers, or as provided hereinafter. All refuse should be removed once every
seven days and more often if necessary to protect the health of the inhabitants
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 245, passed 11-9-1966) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.004 REFUSE STORAGE; CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every occupant, person, owner, owner’s agent or tenant in possession
of any house, building, flat or apartment in the village shall at all times
maintain, in good order and repair, a container or containers for garbage,
refuse and ashes. Filthy, leaking or defective receptacles should be cleaned,
repaired or replaced as directed by the appropriate village representative. A
container shall be a can of galvanized iron of noncorrodible material, rodent-
proof, watertight, a type commonly sold as a garbage can, of a suitable gauge
and construction to ensure durability and so constructed that the opening at
the top shall be larger than the bottom with a capacity of not less than ten
gallons or more than 30 gallons.
   (B)   All household garbage or refuse shall be drained and wrapped in paper
to facilitate collection, and prevent freezing especially during winter months.
   (C)   All commercial, industrial and apartment buildings, and religious,
political, social and non-profit organization’s refuse and ashes shall be
stored in durable, rust-resistant, nonabsorbent, totally enclosed metal
containers.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 245, passed 11-9-1966) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.005 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   With the exception of those days for which containers are placed at curbside
for refuse collection, containers shall not be located beyond the front
building line of any building, structure or residence.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 2025-89, passed 9-20-1989) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.006 REFUSE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Removal of refuse required. Any owner, occupant, tenant or party in
possession of any building, structure, premises, facility or property within
the village which generates refuse shall be required to have accumulations of
the refuse removed from the location where generated no less frequently than
once each week. The village shall arrange for the removal and disposal of
refuse from single-family residential dwelling units within the village as set
forth more fully in division (B) below. The owners, occupants, tenants or
parties in possession of any buildings, structures, premises, facilities or
properties other than single-family residential dwelling units as specified in
division (B) below shall be responsible, at their own cost and expense, to
arrange for the removal and disposal of accumulations of refuse generated
therefrom, in conformance with this chapter and other applicable provisions of
this code.
   (B)   Single-family residential refuse collection and fees.
      (1)   The village shall, by means of an appropriate contract or agreement
entered into with a person or entity lawfully authorized to provide refuse
collection and disposal services in the state, provide refuse collection and
disposal to each single-family residential dwelling unit to which individually
metered water service and sanitary sewer service is provided by the village.
The owners, occupants, tenants or other parties in possession of such a single-
family residential dwelling unit shall be required to receive and utilize such
refuse collection and disposal services as the village may arrange for from
time to time by means of such contracts or agreements, and shall further be
jointly and severally liable for and required to pay the monthly or other
periodic fee which is established from time to time by such contracts or
agreements. The village may also impose, collect and retain a monthly refuse
collection administrative fee separate from and in addition to the fees payable
pursuant to such contracts or agreements. The fees payable pursuant to such
contracts or agreements and the monthly refuse collection administrative fee
contemplated herein may be duly modified by the village from time to time,
which fees shall be included with and made a part of the monthly bill for water
and sanitary sewer service provided to each such single-family residential
dwelling unit. In the event that any owner, occupant, tenant or other party in
possession of a single-family residential unit which is required to receive
refuse collection and disposal service and to pay the fees as set forth above
or fails or refuses to pay such fees in connection with the other charges set
forth on the monthly water, sanitary sewer and garbage bill, the refusal or
failure to pay the refuse collection fee and the village monthly refuse
collection administrative fee shall be deemed a failure to pay the complete
amount of the charges set forth on the monthly water, sanitary sewer and
garbage bill, which shall be subject to the remedies, penalties and procedures
prescribed by Chapters 50 and 51 for failures or refusals to pay water and
sanitary sewer service charges, in addition to such remedies, penalties and
procedures as may be provided in this chapter. Effective as of May 1, 2014, the
amount of the village monthly refuse collection administrative fee shall be $2
per month for each single-family residential dwelling unit to which
individually metered water service and sanitary sewer service is provided by
the village.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the
village shall have no obligation whatsoever, whether in connection with the
single-family residential collection program established by division (B)(1)
above or otherwise, to collect, remove or dispose of any matter, material,
substance or thing of any nature or kind which is included within the
definition, as set forth in 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq., as amended, of any of the
following terms:
         (a)   Hazardous waste;
         (b)   Hazardous substance;
         (c)   Industrial process waste;
         (d)   Pollution control waste;
         (e)   Special waste; or
         (f)   Potentially infectious medical waste.
      (3)   The method of collection, removal and disposal of refuse generated
by or from single-family residential dwelling units outlined within this
division (B) shall be the sole and exclusive method for collection, removal and
disposal of such refuse.
      (4)   Charges are established from time to time with the village’s refuse
service provider, together with any additional fees established by village
ordinance.
   (C)   Collection from alleys or curbs. All refuse shall be collected from
alleys whenever possible. Wherever a person desiring to dispose of refuse owns
or inhabits property abutting a passable alley, the refuse shall be deposited
at the alley for collection. When no alley abuts the premises where the refuse
is to be collected, collections shall be made from the curb immediately in
front of the premises.
   (D)   Brush, shrubs and limbs of trees. Brush, shrubs and limbs of trees,
not to exceed one cubic yard, shall be collected; provided that the latter
shall be bound in lengths not to exceed five feet and that no single piece
within the bundle shall exceed three inches in diameter. Brush, shrubs and
limbs of trees shall be placed for collection on regular collection days.
   (E)   Demolition, remodeling or constructing materials. This shall not be
construed to obligate the village to collect materials created by the
demolition, remodeling or constructing any buildings or structures.
   (F)   Collection frequency; spring collection. In addition, business and
commercial collections shall be as often as may be necessary in the opinion of
the Trustees. An annual collection in the spring of discarded furniture and
appliances or trees, branches, roots, stumps, brush and shrubs not exceeding
the three cubic yards shall be made with no additional charge.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 245, passed 11-9-1966; Ord. 334, passed 5-3-1972;
Res. 455-86, passed 6-4-1986; Ord. 2749-00, passed 4-5-2000; Res. 150-01,
passed 9-19-2001; Ord. 14-1112, passed 4-2-2014)
§ 58.007 TIME OF COLLECTION.
   Subdividing or apportioning the village into various zones or areas for the
collection of refuse by the contractor performing the work and the specific
dates or days of the week on which collection is to be made from each zone
shall be subject to the decision of the Director of Public Works. No refuse
deposited for collection at any curb shall be placed there more than 24 hours
prior to the collection day, and no container shall remain at the curb or alley
24 hours after collection.
(Prior Code, § 92.07) (Ord. 245, passed 11-9-1966) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.008 REFUSE COLLECTOR.
   No person, firm or corporation, except as herein provided, acting as a
private refuse disposal collector, shall, for compensation or hire, remove
refuse from any premises in the village, or transport refuse through the
streets or alleys or public ways of the village, or dump, incinerate or in any
manner dispose of refuse, or contract for removal, transportation or disposal
of refuse without first securing a license for services from the village.
(Prior Code, § 92.08) (Ord. 245, passed 11-9-1966) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.009 BURNING REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to burn any garbage or refuse except dry paper within
the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 92.09) (Ord. 245, passed 11-9-1966) Penalty, see §
58.99
§ 58.010 REFUSE ON PUBLIC WAY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to pile, place, deposit or sweep refuse on any
sidewalk, parkway, street, alley or curb contrary to the manner described in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.10) (Ord. 245, passed 11-9-1966) Penalty, see §
58.999
**** CURBSIDE RECYCLING PROGRAM ****
§ 58.025 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established a villagewide recycling program to be operated by the
village and the village’s contract recycling hauler to provide for the
separation of certain designated recyclable materials from normal household
refuse for placement in specially designated containers. The special recycling
containers will be used for the purpose of storing recyclable materials on site
and for the placement of those materials curbside or in the designated trash
pickup point on the designated collection day.
(Prior Code, § 92.20) (Ord. 2070-90, passed 11-21-1990)
§ 58.026 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURBSIDE RECYCLING PROGRAM. The initial CURBSIDE RECYCLING PROGRAM will
provide for the separation of aluminum, glass and newsprint from normal
household refuse for placement in the recycling container and collection from
the normal collection point on the regular designated pickup day. The village
may from time to time alter the kinds of materials to be separated from the
household waste stream and include those items in the recycling program.
Residents will be notified of any change in the recyclable materials to be
separated from household refuse.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials having an economic value in the secondary materials
market. The following materials have such economic value: aluminum cans and
articles, bi-metal cans, glass containers, corrugated paper (cardboard and
paper boxes), magazines, computer printout paper, computer tab cards, office
paper, steel cans, newspaper paper products not chemically coated and plastic
bottles and containers.
(Prior Code, § 92.21) (Ord. 2070-90, passed 11-21-1990; Ord. 2024-89, passed 9-
20-1989)
§ 58.027 OWNERSHIP AND MISUSE OF RECYCLING CONTAINERS.
   The village will provide free of cost specially labeled recycling containers
to each household located within the corporate limits of the village as of the
date of this section. After the date of this section, recycling containers will
be provided to new households or householders for a deposit of $8 which deposit
will be returned upon return of the bin in acceptable condition. The village
will maintain ownership of the containers. However, each household shall be
responsible for the normal and reasonable care of the container entrusted to
the homeowner’s care. The village will provide free replacement containers to
households when it is determined by the village that replacement is warranted.
However, abuse, negligence or misuse of the containers will require a
replacement cost of $8 to be paid by the resident before a new container is
issued. If the container is not returned at the time of the final water meter
reading, a replacement cost of $8 will be added to the final water bill.
(Prior Code, § 92.22) (Ord. 2070-90, passed 11-21-1990)
§ 58.028 PLACEMENT AND STORAGE OF RECYCLING CONTAINERS.
   Recycling containers shall be stored on the residential premises and may be
placed at the curbside recycling location for collection not more than 24 hours
prior to collection.
(Prior Code, § 92.23) (Ord. 2070-90, passed 11-21-1990) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.029 COST OF RECYCLING PROGRAM.
   The cost of the recycling program will be based upon the agreement between
the village and the hauler. The contracted pickup cost, less any subsidy as
provided for by the village, less any revenues that are received through the
sale of recyclable materials, will be added to the residential water bills each
month.
(Prior Code, § 92.24) (Ord. 2070-90, passed 11-21-1990)
§ 58.030 SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLES AND PLACEMENT FOR REMOVAL.
   Recyclables shall be prepared and separated from other refuse as required
and shall be collected by the village or under subcontract by its designated
agent. Recyclables shall be placed either at the curbside to be collected at
times designated by the village or shall be taken to a recycling facility.
Recyclables shall be disposed in an approved container provided for that
purpose by the village.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) (Ord. 2024-89, passed 9-20-1989)
§ 58.031 COLLECTION BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSON.
   From the time of replacement of recyclables at the curb or in recycling
containers for collection in accordance with the terms hereof, items shall be
and become the property of the village or its authorized agent. It shall be a
violation of this section for any person unauthorized by the village to collect
or pick-up or cause to be collected or picked-up any such items. Any and each
such collection in violation hereof from one or more locations shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense punishable hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 92.26) (Ord. 2024-89, passed 9-20-1989) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.032 RECYCLING COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Village Recycling Committee is established.
   (B)   The Committee shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by
the Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. One
of the five appointed Committee members shall be a Trustee of the Village
Board.
   (C)   All members of the Committee shall reside within the corporate limits
of the village.
   (D)   The term of office for every Commission member shall be one year.
   (E)   The Village President shall appoint, from among the Committee members,
a Chair to preside over Committee meetings. The Committee shall choose a Vice-
Chair to serve as Committee Chair in the absence of the appointed Chair.
   (F)   A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of transacting any business. The Chair shall vote in such matters only in the
event of a tie vote. The Vice-Chair shall be allowed to vote on matters, when
acting as Vice-Chair.
   (G)   The Committee may have the use and assistance of the village staff as
allowed, required or assigned by the Village Manager.
   (H)   The responsibilities of the Committee shall be as follows:
      (1)   Advise and recommend to the Village Board revisions and additions
to the village’s recycling programs, efforts and activities;
      (2)   In conjunction with the overall village budget, the preparation and
submittal of an annual budget addressing planned recycling efforts for the
fiscal year;
      (3)   Assist or advise other citizen commissions and committees on
matters relating to recycling;
      (4)   Monitor changes relating to the recycling industry, determine
effects on the community and advise the Village Board accordingly;
      (5)   Serve as main liaison to the public and business community in
matters relating to recycling; and
      (6)   Review, suggest and approve promotional efforts related to
recycling.
(Prior Code, § 92.27) (Ord. 2068-90, passed 9-19-1990; Ord. 2396-96, passed 2-
7-1996)
**** SCAVENGING ****
§ 58.045 UNAUTHORIZED DISTURBANCE OF GARBAGE, WASTE, REFUSE OR RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   (1)   It is prohibited for any unauthorized person to move, disturb,
tamper with, rummage through, explore, tip over, scavenge from or remove any
garbage, waste, refuse or recyclable materials from any container thereof
placed for collection by an owner or occupant of property within the village or
to perform any of such acts upon any container (including the contents thereof)
in which garbage, waste, refuse or recyclable materials have been placed for
collection by an owner or occupant of property within the village.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, any property, items or materials
shall be deemed to be GARBAGE, WASTE, REFUSE OR RECYCLABLE MATERIALS PLACED FOR
COLLECTION if the same are placed in the time, place and manner required by the
village and/or the person or entity contracted with by the village or the owner
or occupant of property within the village for the collection and removal of
the same.
   (B)   Unauthorized person means any person except the owner or occupant of
the property from which the garbage, waste, refuse or recyclable materials have
been placed for collection, any employee or authorized agent of the owner or
occupant of such property, any personnel or employees of any person or entity
contracted with by the village or by the owner or occupant of such property to
remove garbage, waste, refuse or recyclable materials or any personnel, officer
or employees of the village or any other governmental agencies when engaged in
the performance of their official duties.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for any person
to remove or collect uncontainerized materials or items placed adjacent to or
in close proximity to containers of garbage, waste, refuse or recyclable
materials for purposes of repairing or reusing the same; provided, however,
that any such removal or collection of any such items or materials shall be
subject to the following restrictions and limitations.
      (1)   Such removal and collection shall only take place on the date
established pursuant to village or private contract for the removal and
collection of containers of garbage, waste, refuse or recyclable materials, and
on such date shall only take place after the 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   No person or entity engaged in any such removal or collection shall
park or store any vehicle used in connection with such removal or collection in
any location within the village that is open to public view or that is viewable
from any adjacent lot or parcel of property when such vehicle is visibly loaded
with or bearing any items or materials removed or collected as contemplated
hereby, whether such removal or collection is made from locations within the
village or from locations outside the village, except that vehicles actively
engaged in removal or collection activities as contemplated hereby may park or
stand temporarily but only for so long a period of time as is required to
effectuate the removal or collection of items or materials.
      (3)   No items or materials obtained from any removal or collection
activities contemplated hereby may be kept or stored at any location within the
village other than in a fully enclosed building or structure, and in compliance
with the applicable requirements of the village zoning ordinance, including,
but not limited to, the applicable district regulations thereof.
(Prior Code, § 92.30) (Ord. 08-0706, passed 9-3-2008) Penalty, see §
58.999
§ 58.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
§§
58.001 through
58.010,
58.025 through
58.032 and
58.045, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
73.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
74.   EQUIPMENT
      
75.   LOADS; PERMITS
      
76.   PEDESTRIANS
      
77.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
78.   MOTOR VEHICLE TOWING
      
79.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Scope of title; exceptions
   
70.03   Compliance of public officers and employees with title; exceptions
   
70.04   Application of title to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.05   Obedience to police officers required
   
70.06   Fleeing or attempting to elude peace officer
   
70.07   Administrative warning tickets
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.21   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.22   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.23   Lane-control signals
   
70.24   Flashing signals
   
70.25   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings or advertising signs
   
70.26   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.27   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances and structures
   
70.28   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.29   Zones of quiet
   
70.30   No-turning signs and turning markers
 
   
70.99   General penalty for Title VII
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
   Interference with public officers, see §§
135.01 through
135.05
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Department of Transportation.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-102)
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is more than 25 years of age or a bona
fide replica thereof, and which is driven on the highways only going to and
returning from an antique auto show or an exhibition, or for servicing or
demonstration, or a firefighting vehicle more than 20 years old which is not
used as firefighting equipment, but is used only for the purpose of exhibition
or demonstration.
   APPROVED DRIVER EDUCATION COURSE.
      (1)   Any course of driver education approved by the State Board of
Education, offered by public or private schools maintaining grades 9 through
12, and meeting at least the minimum requirements of the Driver Education Act,
as now or hereafter amended;
      (2)   Any course of driver education offered by a school licensed to give
driver education instructions under this act, which meets at least the minimum
educational requirements of the Driver Education Act, as now or hereafter
amended, and is approved by the State Board of Education;
      (3)   Any course of driver education given in another state to a state
resident attending school in that state, and approved by the state
administrator of the driver education program of the other state; or
      (4)   Any course of driver education given at a Department of Defense
Education Activity school that is approved by the Department of Defense
Education Activity and taught by an adult driver education instructor or
traffic safety officer.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
(70 ILCS 1205/3-9)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper state,
county or local authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the Fire Department;
vehicles of a HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board
under § 5-1127 of the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/5-1127); ambulances; vehicles of
the State Department of Corrections; vehicles of the State Department of
Juvenile Justice; vehicles of the State Emergency Management Agency; vehicles
of the Office of the State Fire Marshal; mine rescue and explosives emergency
response vehicles of the Department of Natural Resources; vehicles of the State
Department of Public Health; vehicles of the State Toll Highway Authority with
a gross vehicle weight rating of 9,000 pounds or more and those identified as
Highway Emergency Lane Patrol; vehicles of the State Department of
Transportation identified as Emergency Traffic Patrol; and vehicles of a
municipal or county emergency services and disaster agency, as defined by the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
(625 ILCS 5/1-105)
   AUTOCYCLE. A three-wheel motor vehicle that has a steering wheel and seating
that does not require the operator to straddle or sit astride it.
(625 ILCS 5/1-104.2)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
(625 ILCS 5/1-106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks or office
buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-108)
   CAMPING TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, constructed with partial
side walls which fold for towing and unfold to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational camping or travel use and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway.
   CANCELLATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The annulment or termination by formal
action of the Secretary of State of a person’s driver’s license because of some
error or defect in the license, or because the licensee is no longer entitled
to the license, but the cancellation of a license is without prejudice, and
application for a new license may be made at any time after the cancellation.
   CHARITABLE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle that is exclusively owned and operated by a religious
or charitable not-for-profit organization and is used primarily in conducting
the official activities of such organization.
      (2)   This definition does not include:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when such bus is on a regularly scheduled route for the
transportation of other fare-paying passengers of furnishing charter service
for the transportation of groups on special trips or in connection with special
events and not over a regular or customary religious organization bus route;
         (b)   A school bus, as defined in this section; or
         (c)   A first division vehicle as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-217; except
that for purposes of determining the number of persons a vehicle is designed to
carry, in any vehicle equipped with one or more wheelchair tiedowns, each
wheelchair tiedown shall be counted as four persons.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
(625 ILCS 5/1-111.8)
   COMMUTER VAN. A motor vehicle, designed for the transportation of not less
than seven nor more than 16 passengers which is:
      (1)   Used in a ridesharing arrangement; or
      (2)   Owned or leased by or on behalf of a company or any employee
organization and operated on a non-profit basis with the primary purpose of
transporting employees of the company between the employees’ homes and the
company’s place of business or a public transportation station and in which the
operating, administrative, maintenance and reasonable depreciation costs are
paid principally by the persons utilizing the commuter van.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street or roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-301.
(625 ILCS 5/1-113)
   DEALER. Every person engaged in the business of acquiring or disposing of
vehicles or their essential parts, and who has an established place of business
for those purposes.
   DEPARTMENT. Except as otherwise designated, the State Department of
Transportation.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-116)
   DRIVER LICENSE COMPACT. The driver license compact set forth in 625 ILCS 5/
6-700 et seq.
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two non-
tandem wheeled device designed to transport only one person with an electric
propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 mph or
less.
(625 ILCS 5/1-117.7)
   ESSENTIAL PARTS. All integral and body parts of a vehicle of a type required
to be registered hereunder, the removal, alteration or substitution of which
would tend to conceal the identity of the vehicle or substantially alter its
appearance, model, type or mode of operation. ESSENTIAL PARTS includes the
following: vehicle hulks; shells; chassis; frames; front end assemblies (which
may consist of headlight, grill, fenders and hood); front clip (front end
assembly with cowl attached); rear clip (which may consist of quarter panels,
fenders, floor and top); doors; hatchbacks; fenders; cabs; cab clips; cowls;
hoods; trunk lids; deck lids; bed; front bumper; rear bumper; transmissions;
seats; engines; and similar parts. ESSENTIAL PARTS also includes fairings, fuel
tanks and forks of motorcycles. ESSENTIAL PARTS shall also include stereo
radios. An ESSENTIAL PART which does not have affixed to it an identification
number as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-129 adopts the identification number of the
vehicle to which such part is affixed, installed or mounted. ESSENTIAL PARTS
does not include an engine, transmission or a rear axle that is used in a
glider kit.
   EXPANDED-USE ANTIQUE VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is more than 25 years of
age or a bona fide replica thereof and which is registered and driven on the
highways in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/3-804.01.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion, and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
(625 ILCS 5/1-120)
   FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLE. Any vehicle, bicycle or electric personal assistive
mobility device that is designated or authorized by proper local authorities
for Fire Department use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-120.7)
   FIRST DIVISION MOTOR VEHICLE. See MOTOR VEHICLE.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F, or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed-cup test device.
   FLEET. One or more commercial motor vehicles.
   FLEET SAFETY VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is used to supervise
operations of vehicles of the second division on the highway so as to promote
safety and legal operations of the second division vehicle.
   FOREIGN VEHICLE. Every vehicle of a type required to be registered
hereunder, brought into this state from another state, territory or country
other than in the ordinary course of business by or through a manufacturer or
dealer, and not registered in this state.
   FOR-HIRE. The operation of a vehicle for compensation and subject to federal
regulation by the Interstate Commerce Commission, or to state regulation by the
State Commerce Commission.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon.
(625 ILCS 5/1-125)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property.
(625 ILCS 5/1-126)
   HOUSE TRAILER.
      (1)   A trailer or semitrailer equipped and used for living quarters or
for human habitation (temporarily or permanently) rather than for the
transportation of freight, goods, wares and merchandise; or
      (2)   A house trailer or a semitrailer which is used commercially
(temporarily or permanently) for the advertising, sales, display or promotion
of merchandise or services, or for any other commercial purpose except the
transportation of property for hire or the transportation of property for
distribution by a private carrier.
   IDENTIFICATION NUMBER. The numbers and letters, if any, on a vehicle or
essential part, affixed by its manufacturer, the Secretary of State or the
State Police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle or essential part, or
which is required to be affixed to the vehicle or part by federal or state law.
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry; provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000 pounds
shall be included hereunder.
(625 ILCS 5/1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone or gravel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-131)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection.
(625 ILCS 5/1-132)
   INTERSTATE or INTERSTATE COMMERCE. Transportation between two or more
states, or transportation originating in one state and passing into or through
other states for delivery in another state, and which is not intrastate.
   INTRASTATE or INTRASTATE COMMERCE. Transportation originating at any point
or place within this state and destined to any other point or place within this
state, irrespective of the route, highway or highways traversed, and including
transportation which passes into or through another state before delivery is
made within this state, and including any act of transportation which includes
or completes a pickup within the state for delivery within the state.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle which has been or is being disassembled, crushed,
compressed, flattened, destroyed or otherwise reduced to a state in which it no
longer can be returned to an operable state, or has been branded or assigned as
junk or a similar designation by another state or jurisdiction.
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies.
(625 ILCS 5/1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time.
(625 ILCS 5/1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver’s license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of the state, including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit; and
      (3)   Any nonresident’s driving privilege as defined herein.
(625 ILCS 5/1-138)
   LIENHOLDER. A person holding a security interest in a vehicle.
   LIMOUSINE. Any privately-owned first division vehicle intended to be used
for the transportation of persons for-hire when the payment is not based on a
meter charge but is prearranged for a designated destination.
(625 ILCS 5/1-139.1)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, city, village and other local board or body
having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution and
laws of the state and each road district Highway Commissioner having that
authority.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140)
   LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE.
      (1)   A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric motor
of less than 750 watts that meets the requirements of one of the following
classes:
         (a)   CLASS 1 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20
mph;
         (b)   CLASS 2 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the bicycle and
that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of
20 mph; and
         (c)   CLASS 3 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 28
mph.
      (2)   A LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE is not a moped or a motor driven
cycle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.10)
   LOW-SPEED GAS BICYCLE. A two- or three- wheeled device with fully operable
pedals and a gasoline motor of less than one horsepower, whose maximum speed on
a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a motor while ridden by an
operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less than 20 mph.
(625 ILCS 5/1-140.15)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States Mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid.
(625 ILCS 5/1-141)
   MANUFACTURER. Every person engaged in the business of manufacturing and
assembling vehicles or reconstructed vehicles, or engine and driveline
components for vehicles.
   MOPED. A motor-driven cycle, with or without optional power derived from
manually operated pedals, whose speed attainable in one mile is at least 20
mph, but not greater than 30 mph, and is equipped with a motor that produces
two brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is used, the
displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and the power
drive system shall not require the operator to shift gears.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.2)
   MOTOR CARRIER. An operator of for-hire vehicles pursuant to the former
Illinois Motor-Carrier of Property Law, 625 ILCS 5/18-101 et seq., and now
codified as the Illinois Commercial Transportation Law, 625 ILCS 5/18c-1101 et
seq. and 5/18c-4101 et seq.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized
wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles and low-speed gas bicycles. For this
section, MOTOR VEHICLES are divided into two divisions:
      (1)   First division: motor vehicles designed for carrying not more than
ten persons; and
      (2)   Second division: motor vehicles designed for carrying more than ten
persons, those designed or used for living quarters, and those motor vehicles
which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and those motor
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of
the second division.
(625 ILCS 5/1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding an autocycle or tractor.
(625 ILCS 5/1-147)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle, including a three-wheeled
vehicle, designed for and used by a person with disabilities, that is incapable
of a speed in excess of eight mph on level ground.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3)
   MULTIFUNCTION SCHOOL ACTIVITY BUS. A school bus manufactured for the purpose
of transporting 11 or more persons, including the driver, whose purposes do not
include transporting students to and from home or school bus stops. A MFSAB is
prohibited from meeting the special requirements for school buses in 625 ILCS
5/12-801, 12-803 and 12-805 and 12-802(a).
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5)
   MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a
trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less that is constructed either on a
truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.3b)
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-148.6)
   NONRESIDENT. Every person who is not a resident of this state.
   NONRESIDENT’S DRIVING PRIVILEGE. The privilege conferred upon a nonresident
by the laws of this state pertaining to the operation by the person of a motor
vehicle, or the use of a vehicle owned by the person, in this state.
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for-hire.
(625 ILCS 5/1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this title.
(625 ILCS 5/1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-157)
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person who by virtue of their public employment is vested
by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for offenses,
whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific offenses.
(625 ILCS 5/1-157.5)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates, including a
person with a physical, hearing or visual disability.
(625 ILCS 5/1-158)
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician, by a licensed physician assistant or by a licensed advanced practice
registered nurse, or by a licensed physical therapist:
      (1)   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair or other assistive
device;
      (2)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that their forced
(respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by spirometry, is
less than one liter or the arterial oxygen tension is less than 60 mm/hg on
room air at rest;
      (3)   Uses portable oxygen;
      (4)   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person’s functional
limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV, according to
standards set by the American Heart Association;
      (5)   Is severely limited in the person’s ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological, oncological or orthopedic condition;
      (6)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest because of one of the
above five conditions; or
      (7)   Is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the use of a hand
or arm.
(625 ILCS 5/1-159.1)
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle, and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads, such as
poles, pipes or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves
as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162)
   POLICE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, recreational off-highway vehicle, all-terrain
vehicle, watercraft, aircraft, bicycle or electric personal assistive mobility
device that is designated or authorized by proper state, county or local
authorities for police use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162.3)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts their
principal business, or where they make up and approve their payroll, maintain a
central file of records and maintain their principal executive offices. In the
event that not all of these functions are performed in one place, then that
place where a majority of these functions are performed or the place where the
person does in fact principally transact and control their business affairs
shall be considered as the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS.
(625 ILCS 5/1-162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(625 ILCS 5/1-163)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
(625 ILCS 5/1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device, other than an official
traffic-control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws governing
same and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the
approach of a railroad train or railroad track equipment.
(625 ILCS 5/1-167)
   RAILROAD TRACK EQUIPMENT. All vehicles operated upon rails for the purpose
of the maintenance of railroads, including, but not limited to, all hi-rail
vehicles and on-track roadway maintenance machines, as defined in 49 C.F.R. pt.
214.7.
(625 ILCS 5/1-167.5)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(625 ILCS 5/1-168)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
(625 ILCS 5/1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates and registration stickers issued under the laws of the state pertaining
to the registration of vehicles. REGISTRATION includes digital registration
plates and digital registration stickers issued by the Secretary of State under
625 ILCS 5/3-401.5.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER.
      (1)   A device or devices to be attached to a rear registration plate
that will renew the registration and registration plate or plates for a
predetermined period, not to exceed one registration year except as provided in
625 ILCS 5/3-414(a). Should the Secretary of State determine it is advisable to
require a registration sticker to be attached to a front registration place,
they may require such action and provide the necessary additional sticker.
      (2)   Such determination shall be publicly announced at least 30 days in
advance of a new annual registration year. REGISTRATION STICKER OR STICKERS
includes digital registration plates and digital registration stickers issued
by the Secretary of State under 625 ILCS 5/3-401.5.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a fire department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances and associated with some unit of
government.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171.6)
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly- or privately- owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life-endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
(625 ILCS 5/1-171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
      (1)   The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not comprising
a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance of 300
feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
      (2)   For purposes of establishing maximum speed limits, a RESIDENCE
DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with residences or
residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more than 500 feet
apart.
(625 ILCS 5/1-172)
   RESIDENT.
      (1)   Every natural person who resides in this state shall be deemed a
resident of this state.
      (2)   In the case of a firm, copartnership or association, if the
principal place of business of the firm, copartnership or association is
located in the state, then the firm, copartnership or association shall be
deemed a resident of the state.
      (3)   In the case of a corporation, if the corporation was incorporated
under the laws of the state, or if the principal place of business of the
corporation is in the state, then the corporation shall be deemed a resident of
the state.
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer.
(625 ILCS 5/1-174)
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
Secretary of a person’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration, except that an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the Secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation.
(625 ILCS 5/1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other.
(625 ILCS 5/1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
(625 ILCS 5/1-178)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all the roadways collectively.
(625 ILCS 5/1-179)
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
Mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(625 ILCS 5/1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
            1.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers;
            2.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the first division; or
         (c)   A multi-function school-activity bus.
(625 ILCS 5/1-182)
   SECOND DIVISION MOTOR VEHICLE. See MOTOR VEHICLE.
   SECRETARY. The Secretary of State or their designee.
   SECURITY AGREEMENT. A written agreement which reserves or creates a security
interest.
   SECURITY INTEREST. An interest in a vehicle reserved or created by
agreement, and which secures payment of performance of an obligation. The term
includes the interest of a lessor under a lease intended as security. A
SECURITY INTEREST is “perfected” when it is valid against third parties
generally, subject only to specific statutory exceptions.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-187)
   SHOULDER. The portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-187.1)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SITUS OR BASE OF VEHICLE. The place where a vehicle is principally garaged,
or from whence it is principally dispatched, or where the movements of the
vehicle usually originate.
   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT. Every vehicle not designed or used primarily for
the transportation of persons or property, and only incidentally operated or
moved over a highway, including, but not limited to: street sweepers, ditch
digging apparatus, well boring apparatus and road construction and maintenance
machinery, such as asphalt spreaders, bituminous mixers, bucket loaders,
tractors other than truck tractors, ditchers, leveling graders, finishing
machines, motor graders, road rollers, scarifiers, earth-moving carryalls and
scrapers, power shovels and drag lines, self-propelled cranes and earth-moving
equipment. The term does not include house trailers, dump trucks, truck mounted
transit mixers, cranes or shovels, or other vehicles designed for the
transportation of persons or property to which machinery has been attached.
   SPECIALLY CONSTRUCTED VEHICLE. Every vehicle of a type required to be
registered hereunder that: has been materially altered from its original
construction by the removal, addition or substitution of essential parts; or
was not originally constructed under a distinctive name by a generally
recognized manufacturer of vehicles.
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
(625 ILCS 5/1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a province of the Dominion of
Canada.
(625 ILCS 5/1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended.
(625 ILCS 5/1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois State Police.
(625 ILCS 5/1-197)
   STINGER-STEERED SEMITRAILER. Every semitrailer, including automobile
transporters, which has its kingpin on a projection to the front of the
structure of the semitrailer, and is combined with the fifth wheel of the truck
tractor at a point not less than two feet to the rear of the center of the
rearmost axle of such tractor.
   STOP or STOPPING.
      (1)   The complete cessation from movement.
(625 ILCS 5/1-199)
      (2)   Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or
signal.
(625 ILCS 5/1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-201)
   STREETCAR. A car other than a railroad train for transporting persons or
property, and operated upon rails principally within the municipality.
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. The portion of any city, village or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts.
(625 ILCS 5/1-203)
   SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE. The temporary withdrawal by formal action of
the Secretary, of a person’s license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on
the public highways, for a period specifically designated by the Secretary.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title.
(625 ILCS 5/1-205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline or
auxiliary axle, or to render assistance to disabled vehicles.
(625 ILCS 5/1-205.1)
   TRACKLESS TROLLEY COACH. Every motor vehicle which is propelled by electric
power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
(625 ILCS 5/1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
(625 ILCS 5/1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-209)
   TRANSPORTER. Every person engaged in the drive-away or tow-away business of
transporting vehicles, not their own, by driving either singly or by the
towbar, saddle mount or full mount methods, or any combinations thereof, or by
drawing or towing house trailers, semitrailers or trailers, including their
coupling devices, and using the public highways of this state therefor.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-210.01)
   TRIP LEASE. A one-trip lease of a vehicle to a lessee.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, travel or camping use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn, or a power unit that carries as
property motor vehicles when operating in combination with a semitrailer in
transporting motor vehicles or any other commodity, including cargo or general
freight, on a backhaul.
(625 ILCS 5/1-212)
   TRUCKSTER. Every motor vehicle or motorcycle with three wheels designed,
used or maintained primarily for the transportation of property.
   UNIFORM INVOICE. A form created by the Secretary for the purpose of
transporting vehicles and essential parts that does not convey or transfer
ownership rights of a vehicle from one entity to another.
(625 ILCS 5/1-213.8)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of one-quarter
mile or more.
(625 ILCS 5/1-214)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes.
(625 ILCS 5/1-214.8)
   USED CAR DEALER. Every person engaged in the business of buying, selling or
exchanging used motor vehicles, and who has an established place of business
for that purpose in this village.
   USED MOTOR VEHICLE. Every motor vehicle which has been sold, bargained,
exchanged, given away or title transferred from the person who first acquired
it from the manufacturer or importer, dealer or agent of the manufacturer or
importer, and so used as to have become what is commonly known as “secondhand”
within the ordinary meaning thereof; however, a new motor vehicle shall not be
considered as a USED MOTOR VEHICLE until it has been placed in a bona fide
consumer use, notwithstanding the number of transfers of the motor vehicle. The
term BONA FIDE CONSUMER USE means actual operation by an owner who acquired the
vehicle for use in business or for pleasure purposes, and who has been granted
a certificate of title on the motor vehicle, and has registered the motor
vehicle, all in accordance with the laws of the residence of the owner.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under 625 ILCS 5/3-101(d), except devices moved by human power, devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles as defined in the
Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act (625 ILCS 40).
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a VEHICLE until such time it either comes
within the definition of a “junk vehicle,” as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section, vehicles are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First division: those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons; and
         (b)   Second division: those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons; those designed or used for living quarters; those which
are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight or cargo; and those
motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as vehicles of
the second division.
(625 ILCS 5/1-217)
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Administrator, see 625 ILCS 5/11-100
   Antique vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-102.1
   Approved driver education course, see 625 ILCS 5/1-103
   Camping trailer, see 625 ILCS 5/1-109.01
   Cancellation of driver’s license, see 625 ILCS 5/1-110
   Charitable vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-111.1a
   Commuter van, see 625 ILCS 5/1-111.9
   Dealer, see 625 ILCS 5/1-115
   Drivers Education Act, see 625 ILCS 5/27-24 through 27-24.10
   Drivers license compact, see 625 ILCS 5/1-117
   Essential parts, see 625 ILCS 5/1-118
   Expanded-use antique vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-118.1
   Explosives, see 625 ILCS 5/1-119
   Flammable liquid, see 625 ILCS 5/1-121
   Fleet, see 625 ILCS 5/1-122
   Fleet safety vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-122.1
   Foreign vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-123
   For-hire, see 625 ILCS 5/1-122.5
   House trailer, see 625 ILCS 5/1-128
   Identification number, see 625 ILCS 5/1-129
   Interstate or interstate commerce, see 625 ILCS 5/1-133
   Intrastate or intrastate commerce, see 625 ILCS 5/1-134
   Junk vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-134.1
   Lienholder, see 625 ILCS 5/1-139
   Manufacturer, see 625 ILCS 5/1-142
   Motor carrier, see 625 ILCS 5/1-145
   Multipurpose passenger vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-148.3b
   Nonresident, see 625 ILCS 5/1-149
   Nonresident’s driving privilege, see 625 ILCS 5/1-150
   Person, see 625 ILCS 5/1-159
   Pneumatic tire, see 625 ILCS 5/1-160
   Pole trailer, see 625 ILCS 5/1-161
   Resident, see 625 ILCS 5/1-173
   Rural mail delivery vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-180
   Secretary, see 625 ILCS 5/1-183
   Security agreement, see 625 ILCS 5/1-185
   Security interest, see 625 ILCS 5/1-186
   Situs or base of vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-189
   Solid tire, see 625 ILCS 5/1-190
   Special mobile equipment, see 625 ILCS 5/1-191
   Specially constructed vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-192
   Stinger-steered semitrailer, see 625 ILCS 5/1-198
   Streetcar, see 625 ILCS 5/1-202
   Suspension of driver’s license, see 625 ILCS 5/1-204
   Trackless trolley coach, see 625 ILCS 5/1-206
   Transporter, see 625 ILCS 5/1-210
   Truckster, see 625 ILCS 5/1-212.5
   Used car dealer, see 625 ILCS 5/1-215
   Used motor vehicle, see 625 ILCS 5/1-216
§ 70.02 SCOPE OF TITLE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon highways except where a
different place is specifically referred to in a given section.
   (B)   The provisions of §§
72.15 through
72.20 and
72.35 through
72.39 shall apply upon highways and elsewhere throughout the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-201
§ 70.03 COMPLIANCE OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES WITH TITLE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles
upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated
by the United States, this state or any county, city, town, district or any
other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this section,
and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with reference to
authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of §
74.028.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title
shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles and equipment while actually engaged
in work upon the highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-205
§ 70.04 APPLICATION OF TITLE TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this title, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(625 ILCS 5/11-206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS REQUIRED.
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, firefighter, person authorized by the village
to direct traffic or school crossing guard invested by law with authority to
direct, control or regulate traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/11-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a
visual or audible signal by a peace officer directing the driver or operator to
bring their vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or refuses to obey that
direction, increases their speed, extinguishes their lights or otherwise flees
or attempts to elude the officer is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. The signal
given by the peace officer may be by hand, voice, siren or a red or blue light;
provided that the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform, and, if
driving a vehicle, the vehicle shall display illuminated oscillating, rotating
or flashing red or blue lights which when used in conjunction with an audible
horn or siren would indicate the vehicle to be an official police vehicle. Such
requirement shall not preclude the use of amber or white oscillating, rotating
or flashing lights in conjunction with red or blue oscillating, rotating or
flashing lights as required in §
74.028.
   (B)   Upon receiving notice of conviction, the Secretary of State shall
suspend the driver’s license of the person so convicted for a period of not
more than six months for a first conviction and not more than 12 months for a
second conviction.
   (C)   A third or subsequent violation of this section is a Class 4 felony.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-204
§ 70.07 ADMINISTRATIVE WARNING TICKETS.
   For provisions concerning administrative warning tickets for various
offenses included in this title, see
Chapter 40.
(Prior Code, § 70.07)
**** TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES ****
§ 70.20 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed or held in accordance with
this title, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code and
purports to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to such device, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign. This provision does not apply to the driver of a vehicle approaching
a pedestrian hybrid beacon.
(625 ILCS 5/11-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except for
special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or
in combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection
only to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time.
         (b)   This vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully
using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.22, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.22, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Flashing yellow arrow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a flashing yellow arrow indication may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a flashing yellow arrow indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.22, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk
that crosses the lane or lanes used to depart the intersection by traffic
controlled by the flashing yellow arrow indication. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
   (D)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) below, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(3) and (D)(4) below, vehicular
traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to
make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection
to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then
before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is shown.
      (3)   (a)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and local
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street
into a one-way street, after stopping as required by divisions (D)(1) or (D)(2)
above.
         (b)   After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or
within the intersection or junction or roadways. Such driver shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   After stopping as required by divisions (D)(1) or (D)(2) above, the
driver of a motorcycle or bicycle, facing a steady red signal which fails to
change to a green signal within a reasonable period of time not less than 120
seconds because of a signal malfunction or because the signal has failed to
detect the arrival of the motorcycle or bicycle due to the vehicle’s size or
weight, shall have the right to proceed, after yielding the right-of-way to
oncoming traffic facing a green signal, subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign as required by §
71.067.
      (5)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.22, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall
not enter the roadway.
   (E)   Stops. In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made or, in the absence of
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(625 ILCS 5/11-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don’t Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t Walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed their crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm symbol
shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don’t Walk” signal or
upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady or flashing.
(625 ILCS 5/11-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings.
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, they shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise, they
shall obey all other traffic controls, and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(625 ILCS 5/11-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in
conjunction with a traffic-control device, it shall require obedience by
vehicular traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(625 ILCS 5/11-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in the village which does not conform to the
requirements of this title.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of Illinois
Adopt-A-Highway signs by the village as provided in the Illinois Adopt-A-
Highway Act, 605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
(625 ILCS 5/11-310) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device, or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.16) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-311
§ 70.27 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any public
highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage, injure or
remove any sign, signpost or structure upon or used or constructed in
connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or for
the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction or
removal thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-312
§ 70.28 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   (A)   The Village Street Department, with reference to traffic-control
signs, signals or markers owned by the village, is authorized to indicate the
ownership of the signs, signals or markers in letters not less than three-
eighths inch, or more than three-quarters inch in height, by use of a metal
stamp, etching or other permanent means.
   (B)   Except for employees of the Village Street Department, police
officers, contractors and their employees engaged in a highway construction
contract or work on the highway approved by the village, it is unlawful for any
person to possess a sign, signal or marker so identified.
(625 ILCS 5/11-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device except in an emergency.
§ 70.30 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
the sign.
   (B)   When authorized marks, buttons or other indications are placed within
an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles, no driver of
a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE VII.
   (A)   Parties liable for violations.
      (1)   Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit
or aids or abets in the commission of any act declared to be a crime, whether
individually or in connection with one or more other persons or as principal,
agent or accessory, shall be guilty of such offense, and every person who
falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or willfully induces, causes, coerces,
requires, permits or directs another to violate any provision of this title is
likewise guilty of such offense.
      (2)   It is unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle, to require or knowingly to
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a highway in any manner contrary to
law.
(Prior Code, § 70.98)
   (B)   General penalty for Title VII. Any person, firm or corporation that
violates any of the provisions of this title or chapter, unless otherwise
specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each
offense.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
   (C)   Obedience to police officers. Any person convicted of violating §
70.05 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be subject to a mandatory fine of
$250.
(625 ILCS 5/11-203)
   (D)   Obedience to traffic-control devices. Any violation of §
70.20(A) above that occurs within a designated highway construction zone or
maintenance zone shall result in a fine of no less than $100 and no more than
$1,000.
(625 ILCS 5/11-305)
   (E)   Interference with traffic-control devices or railroad signs. Every
person who is convicted of a violation of §
70.26 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of at
least $250 in addition to any other penalties which may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
   (F)   Using or damaging highways, appurtenances and structures. Every person
who is convicted of a violation of §
70.27 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of at
least $250 in addition to any other penalty which may be imposed.
(Prior Code, § 70.17)
(Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose penalties, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/16-201 and 5/16-202
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.001   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.002   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.003   Overtaking a vehicle on the left
   
71.004   Limitations on overtaking a vehicle on the left
   
71.005   Further limitations on driving to the left of center
   
71.006   Overtaking a vehicle on the right; when permitted
   
71.007   Following too closely
   
71.008   No-passing zones
   
71.009   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.010   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.025   Required position and method of turning
   
71.026   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.027   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.028   Signal; when required
   
71.029   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.030   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
71.045   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
71.046   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.047   Vehicle turning left
   
71.048   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.049   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.050   Merging traffic
   
71.051   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.052   Operation of vehicles on approach of emergency vehicles
   
71.053   Funeral processions; right-of-way
Special Stops Required
   
71.065   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train or railroad track
equipment
   
71.066   Certain vehicles to stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.067   Stop and yield signs
   
71.068   Emerging from alley, building, private road or driveway
   
71.069   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
71.070   Stop on meeting stopped school bus
Special Vehicles
   
71.085   Passengers boarding or exiting school bus
   
71.086   Operation of religious organization bus
   
71.087   Operation of farm tractor
   
71.088   Operation of ambulances
   
71.089   Operation of non-highway vehicles
Prohibited Acts
   
71.100   Limitations on backing
   
71.101   Obstruction of driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.102   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.103   Riding in towed vehicles
   
71.104   Coasting
   
71.105   Following fire apparatus
   
71.106   Crossing fire hose
   
71.107   Driving upon sidewalk or in safety zone
   
71.108   Putting hazardous materials on highway
   
71.109   Obstructing highways
   
71.110   Violation of controlled-access highway restrictions
   
71.111   Off-street operation of motor vehicles and motorcycles on public and
private property
   
71.112   Excessive noise from motor vehicle or motorcycle operation prohibited
   
71.113   Engine braking regulations
   
71.114   Use of roller skates, coasters or similar devices
Parades
   
71.125   Definitions
   
71.126   Permit required
   
71.127   Application for permit
   
71.128   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.129   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.130   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.131   Alternative permit
   
71.132   Notice to village and other officials when permit issued
   
71.133   Contents of permit
   
71.134   Duties of permittee
   
71.135   Public conduct during parades
   
71.136   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
**** OVERTAKING AND PASSING ****
§ 71.001 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing those movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; or
      (5)   Whenever there is a single-track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on the pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon a two-lane roadway, providing for two-way movement of traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   (1)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic,
and providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to
the left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A)(2) above.
      (2)   However, this division (C) shall not be construed as prohibiting
the crossing of the centerline in making a left turn into or from an alley,
private road or driveway.
   (D)   (1)   Upon an interstate highway or fully access-controlled freeway, a
vehicle may not be driven in the left lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle.
      (2)   Division (D)(1) above does not apply:
         (a)   When no other vehicle is directly behind the vehicle in the left
lane;
         (b)   When traffic conditions and congestion make it impractical to
drive in the right lane;
         (c)   When snow and other inclement weather conditions make it
necessary to drive in the left lane;
         (d)   When obstructions or hazards exist in the right lane;
         (e)   When a vehicle changes lanes to comply with 625 ILCS 5/11-907,
11-907.5 and 11-908;
         (f)   When, because of highway design, a vehicle must be driven in the
left lane when preparing to exit;
         (g)   On toll highways when necessary to use I-Pass, and on toll and
other highways when driving in the left lane is required to comply with an
official traffic control device; or
         (h)   To law enforcement vehicles, ambulances and other emergency
vehicles engaged in official duties and vehicles engaged in highway maintenance
and construction operation.
(625 ILCS 5/11-701) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Scott’s Law, see 625 ILCS 5/11-907
§ 71.002 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(625 ILCS 5/11-702) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall the movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of their
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit the passing maneuver safely.
   (D)   The operator of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle or individual
proceeding in the same direction on a highway shall leave a safe distance, but
not less than three feet, when passing the bicycle or individual and shall
maintain that distance until safely past the overtaken bicycle or individual.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle overtaking a bicycle proceeding in the
same direction on a highway may, subject to the provisions in division (D)
above and 625 ILCS 5/11-706, pass to the left of the bicycle on a portion of
the highway designated as a no-passing zone under 625 ILCS 5/11-707 of this
code if the driver is able to overtake and pass the bicycle when:
      (1)   The bicycle is traveling at a speed of less than half of the posted
speed limit of the highway;
      (2)   The driver is able to overtake and pass the bicycle without
exceeding the posted speed limit of the highway; and
      (3)   There is sufficient distance to the left of the centerline of the
highway for the motor vehicle to meet the overtaking and passing requirements
under this section.
   (F)   A person driving a motor vehicle shall not, in a reckless manner,
drive the motor vehicle unnecessarily close to, toward or near a bicyclist,
pedestrian or a person riding a horse or driving an animal drawn vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-703(a)—(e)) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
   (B)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(625 ILCS 5/11-705)
§ 71.005 FURTHER LIMITATIONS ON DRIVING TO THE LEFT OF CENTER.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; and
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (B)   The limitations in division (A) above do not apply upon a one-way
roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of a
vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road or driveway when the
movements can be made with safety.
(625 ILCS 5/11-706)
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.006 OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE RIGHT; WHEN PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right
of any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed
pavement to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less
than eight feet.
      (2)   This division (B) does not apply to devices propelled by human
power.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. This movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-704) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-710) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.008 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees is authorized to determine those
portions of any highway within the village where overtaking and passing or
driving on the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may, by
appropriate signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of
the zones, and when signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) above, no driver may at any time drive on the left
side of the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any
pavement striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §§
71.001(A)(2) or
71.003(E), nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley,
private road or driveway. The pavement striping designed to mark the no-passing
zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose of completing a
pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the driver’s
direction of travel.
(625 ILCS 5/11-707) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.009 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across or within any dividing space, barrier or
section except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing section,
or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved non-curbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(625 ILCS 5/11-708) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.010 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from that lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for two-
way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and the allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
Drivers must obey lane designation signing except when it is necessary to use a
different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   (E)   A person is not in violation of this section if they are complying
with 625 ILCS 5/11-907, 625 ILCS 5/11-907.5 or 625 ILCS 5/11-908.
(625 ILCS 5/11-709) Penalty, see §
71.999
**** TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS ****
§ 71.025 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows.
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The Department and local authorities, in their respective
jurisdictions, may cause official traffic-control devices to be placed within
or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that a different
course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles turning at
an intersection. Where these devices are so placed, no driver of a vehicle
shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by
these devices.
   (B)   Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by official traffic-control devices, the
following shall apply.
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane.
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making
a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
   (C)   When a motor vehicle and a mass transit bus are traveling in the same
direction on the same multi-laned highway, street or road, the operator of the
motor vehicle overtaking such bus, which is stopped at an intersection on the
right side of the roadway to receive or discharge passengers, shall pass to the
left of the bus at a safe distance and shall not turn to the right in front of
the bus at that intersection.
(Prior Code, § 72.15) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-801
§ 71.026 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where the
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(625 ILCS 5/11-802) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.027 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked, unless
and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(625 ILCS 5/11-803) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.028 SIGNAL; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the
vehicle is in proper position upon the highway as required in §
71.025, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   No person may so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate
signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, change lanes, otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, move right or left upon a highway or when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the vehicle within a business or residence district, and the signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
   (D)   (1)   The electric turn signal device required in 625 ILCS 5/12-208
must be used and operated as prescribed in division (B) above to indicate an
intention to turn, change lanes, turn a vehicle from a direct course, move
right or left upon a highway or start from a parallel parked position.
      (2)   Unless the conditions of division (B) above are met, an electric
turn signal device required in 625 ILCS 5/12-208 shall not be left in the on
position and must not be flashed on one side only on a parked or disabled
vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to operators of other
vehicles approaching from the rear.
      (3)   However, signal devices may be flashed simultaneously on both sides
of a motor vehicle to indicate the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking and passing.
(625 ILCS 5/11-804) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.029 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in 625 ILCS 5/12-208.
(625 ILCS 5/11-805) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.030 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward, except that a person
operating a bicycle may extend the right hand and arm horizontally and to the
right side of the bicycle; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(625 ILCS 5/11-806) Penalty, see §
71.999
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.045 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The corporate authority shall place and maintain official traffic-
control devices when and as required under the “code or ordinance” of the
village to make effective the provisions of said ordinance; and place and
maintain such additional official traffic-control devices as it deems necessary
to regulate, warn or guide traffic under the “code of ordinance” of this
village or under state law. All signs and signals established by direction of
the corporate authorities shall conform to the Illinois State Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
   (B)   The corporate authority, with reference to highways under its
jurisdiction, may designate through highways and erect stop signs or yield
signs at specified entrances thereto, or may designate any intersection as a
stop intersection or as a yield intersection and erect stop signs or yield
signs at one or more entrances to such intersections. Every stop sign and yield
sign shall be located as near as practicable to the nearest line of the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no crosswalk,
then as close as practicable to the nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.24) (Ord. 2227-93, passed 7-7-1993)
§ 71.046 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
roadways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle which is on
the left must yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   This rule may be modified at through highways or streets and where
otherwise inconsistent with the provisions of this traffic code.
(625 ILCS 5/11-901) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.047 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(625 ILCS 5/11-902) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.048 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection, or flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked
crosswalk between intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at
either edge of the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so
stopped.
   (B)   Drivers of vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians
entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(625 ILCS 5/11-903) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.049 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but if none,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
      (2)   After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in
obedience to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing
conditions, and, if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
      (2)   After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely
as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving
across or within the intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(625 ILCS 5/11-904) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.050 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.046, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging
traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to
adjust their vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision
with another vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-905) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.051 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway to be entered.
(625 ILCS 5/11-906) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.052 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter, or
a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual
signal, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
shall, if necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop
and remain in that position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
(625 ILCS 5/11-907(a)(1))
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-907(b))
Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional offenses; statutory penalties, see 625 ILCS 5/11-907
§ 71.053 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the procession have their headlights and hazard lights
lighted, subject to the following conditions and exceptions.
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal.
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer.
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in the procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive their vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so
by a traffic officer or when the vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights or hazard lights or both
lighted for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted by this section to
funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in the procession if the overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when the vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in the procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may utilize
funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers or flashing hazard warning
signal flashers to identify the individual vehicles in such a procession.
   (F)   In the absence of law enforcement traffic-control assistance for a
funeral procession, a funeral director or their designee may direct traffic
during a funeral procession.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1420) Penalty, see §
71.999
**** SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED ****
§ 71.065 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN OR RAILROAD TRACK
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing where the driver is not always required to stop, the person must
exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a
highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in
this section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until the tracks
are clear and they can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply
when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagger gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad
track equipment;
         (c)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a
highway crossing emits a warning signal and the train or railroad track
equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an immediate
hazard;
         (d)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing; or
         (e)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
      (2)   Whenever any person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined
in 625 ILCS 5/6-500, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the driver is
not always required to stop, the person must exercise due care and caution as
the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning of danger, and
under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver shall stop
within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the nearest rail of the
railroad and shall not proceed until the tracks are clear and they can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or railroad track
equipment;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagger gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train or railroad
track equipment;
         (c)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment approaching a
highway crossing emits a warning signal, and such railroad train or railroad
track equipment, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard;
         (d)   An approaching railroad train or railroad track equipment is
plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing; and
         (e)   A railroad train or railroad track equipment is approaching so
closely that an immediate hazard is created.
      (3)   Whenever a person driving a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in
625 ILCS 5/6-500, approaches a railroad grade crossing where the driver is not
always required to stop but must slow down, the person must exercise due care
and caution as the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning
of danger and under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver
shall slow down within 50 feet, but not less that 15 feet, from the nearest
rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until they check that the tracks are
clear of an approaching train or railroad track equipment.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   The Department, and village authorities with the approval of the
Department, are authorized to designate particularly dangerous highway grade
crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat. When such stop signs
are erected, the driver of any vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less
than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall proceed only upon
exercising due care.
   (D)   (1)   At any railroad grade crossing provided with railroad crossbuck
signs, without automatic, electric or mechanical signal devices, crossing gates
or a human flagger giving a signal of the approach or passage of a train or
railroad track equipment, the driver of a vehicle shall, in obedience to the
railroad crossbuck sign, yield the right-of-way, and slow down to a speed
reasonable for the existing conditions and shall stop, if required for safety,
at a clearly marked stop line, or if no stop line, within 50 feet but not less
than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until
they can do so safely.
      (2)   If a driver is involved in a collision at a railroad crossing or
interferes with the movement of a train or railroad track equipment after
driving past the railroad crossbuck sign, the collision or interference is
prima facie evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
   (E)   No person shall, while driving a commercial motor vehicle, fail to
negotiate a railroad-highway grade railroad crossing because of insufficient
undercarriage clearance.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1201(a)—(d-1)) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.066 CERTAIN VEHICLES TO STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before
crossing a railroad track or tracks at grade, stop that vehicle within 50 feet
but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail, and while so stopped, shall
listen and look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment, and
shall not proceed until that movement can be made with safety:
         (a)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire; and
         (b)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school
buses in 625 ILCS 5/12-801, 12-803 and 12-805. The driver of the bus, in
addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this division
(A), must also turn off all noise-producing accessories, including heater
blowers, defroster fans, auxiliary fans and radios, and open the service door
and driver’s window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks.
      (2)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing
a railroad track or tracks at grade, stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail and, while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train or railroad track equipment and shall not
proceed until such movement can be made with safety:
         (a)   A commercial motor vehicle, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/6-500,
carrying passengers for hire;
         (b)   Any bus that meets all of the special requirements for school
buses in 625 ILCS 5/12-801, 12-803 and 12-805 and is designed to transport 16
or more persons, including the driver. The driver of the bus, in addition to
complying with all other applicable requirements of this division (A)(2), must
also turn off all noise producing accessories, including heater blowers,
defroster fans, auxiliary fans and radios, and open the service door and
driver’s window, before crossing a railroad track or tracks; and
         (c)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to
be placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo hazardous material as
defined in the Illinois Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (430 ILCS 30/3).
      (3)   After stopping as required in this section, the driver shall
proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of gears during the crossing, and
the driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
   (B)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagger;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which, under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping,
except that division (A) above shall apply to any school bus;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the State Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the State Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1202) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.067 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorist of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersection roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.068 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1205) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.069 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or railroad grade crossing to accommodate
the vehicle they are operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   (1)   No driver shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there
is sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed. Any person found in violation of this
division (B) shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of
community service.
      (2)   No driver operating a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in 625
ILCS 5/6-500, shall enter a highway rail grade crossing unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the highway rail grade crossing to
accommodate the vehicle being operated without obstructing the passage of a
train or other railroad equipment using the rails, notwithstanding any traffic-
control signal indication to proceed.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1425(a)—(b-5)) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.070 STOP ON MEETING STOPPED SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped on a highway,
roadway, private road, parking lot, school property or at any other location,
including, without limitation, a location that is not a highway or roadway for
the purpose of receiving or discharging pupils. The stop is required before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in 625 ILCS 5/12-803 and 12-805. The driver of the vehicle
shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the driver of the
vehicle is signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the visual signals
are no longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by 625 ILCS 5/12-803 shall be extended
after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by 625 ILCS 5/12-805 shall be actuated after the school
bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or discharging
pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in motion again.
The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time except as provided
in division (D) below.
   (D)   (1)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp
flashing signal system required by 625 ILCS 5/12-805 shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the school bus
before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within an
urban area, and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the school
bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated until
the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be actuated at any
other time.
      (2)   The alternately flashing headlamps permitted by 625 ILCS 5/12-805
may be operated while the alternately flashing red or amber signal maps
required by that section are actuated.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four or more lanes which
permits at least two lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop the vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway; and need not stop the vehicle when driving upon a controlled access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction stopped in a
loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled access
highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1414(a)—(e)) Penalty, see §
71.999
SPECIAL VEHICLES
§ 71.085 PASSENGERS BOARDING OR EXITING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   At all pick up points where it is necessary for a school bus passenger
to cross the roadway to board the bus, the school bus driver shall signal the
awaiting passenger when it is safe to cross the roadway ahead of the bus.
   (B)   At all discharge points where it is necessary for a school bus
passenger to cross the roadway, the school bus driver shall direct the
passenger to a point approximately ten feet in front of the bus on the
shoulder, and shall then signal the passenger when it is safe to cross the
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.45) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1423
§ 71.086 OPERATION OF RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION BUS.
   (A)   No religious organization bus may be operated on any street or highway
unless all passengers, except for supervisory personnel, are seated in seats
permanently mounted to the vehicle, and the aisle of the bus is kept clean and
open.
   (B)   No religious organization bus may be operated on any street or highway
while carrying more than the manufacturer’s rated passenger capacity for the
bus, or at a gross weight in excess of the chassis manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating (GVWR) or gross axle weight rating (GAWR), or in excess of the
weight load ratings of the tires on the bus. For buses or tires on which the
manufacturer has not shown ratings, by a label, embossment, molding or
equivalent means, the Department shall provide, or assist in obtaining, the
necessary ratings and may publish them.
   (C)   In loading or unloading passengers, the religious organization bus
driver shall stop the bus out of the lane of moving traffic at any bus stop
officially designated as such by government authorities or in a parking lane on
the pavement of the highway or on the shoulder off of the highway, if wide
enough to permit the safe loading or unloading of passengers. If, however,
there is no bus stop, parking lane or shoulder within 50 feet of the residence
or temporary residence of the passenger transported or to be transported by the
bus, or within 50 feet of the religious facility, the driver may stop the bus
on the pavement of the highway after activating unison amber warning lights for
not less than 200 feet before the bus is brought to a stop and while passengers
are being loaded or unloaded, or if the bus is equipped as a school bus and
meets the requirements of §§
71.025 through
71.030 by complying with §
71.070(B), (C) and (D).
   (D)   At all pickup points where it is necessary for a religious
organization bus passenger under the age of 12 to cross the roadway to board
the bus, a responsible supervisor on the bus shall personally escort the
awaiting passenger when it is safe to cross the roadway ahead of the bus.
   (E)   At all discharge points where it is necessary for a religious
organization bus passenger under the age of 12 to cross the roadway, a
responsible supervisor on the bus shall personally escort the passenger to a
point approximately ten feet in front of the bus on the shoulder and then, when
it is safe to cross the roadway, across the roadway to a place of safety.
(Prior Code, § 72.46) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1424
§ 71.087 OPERATION OF FARM TRACTOR.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in the village
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment and supplies, as well as
the transportation of the implement of husbandry from its place of purchase to
its place of storage, in connection with the obtaining of repairs of the
implement of husbandry, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than
8,000 pounds for use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the
place of work or repair.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1418)
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the operation of farm tractors
participating in parades or special events conducted on village property or
upon village streets when such operation has been authorized or approved by the
village.
(Prior Code, § 72.47)
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.088 OPERATION OF AMBULANCES.
   (A)   No person shall operate an ambulance or rescue vehicle, in a manner
not conforming to a provision of the motor vehicle laws and regulations of this
state or the village as the provision applies to motor vehicles in general,
unless in compliance with the following conditions.
      (1)   The person operating the ambulance shall be either responding to a
bona fide emergency call or specifically directed by a licensed physician to
disregard traffic laws in operating the ambulance during and for the purpose of
the specific trip or journey that is involved.
      (2)   The ambulance or rescue vehicle shall be equipped with a siren
producing an audible signal of an intensity of 100 decibels at a distance of 50
feet from the siren and with a lamp or lamps emitting an oscillating, rotating
or flashing red beam directed in part toward the front of the vehicle and these
lamps shall have sufficient intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal
sunlight, and in addition to other lighting requirements, excluding those
vehicles operated in counties with a population in excess of 2,000,000, may
also operate with a lamp or lamps emitting an oscillating, rotating or flashing
green light.
      (3)   The siren and lamp or lamps shall be in operation at all times when
it is reasonably necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the
approach thereof during the trip or journey.
      (4)   Whenever the ambulance or rescue vehicle is operated at a speed in
excess of 40 mph, the ambulance or rescue vehicle shall be operated in complete
conformance with every other motor vehicle law and regulation of this state and
the village in which the ambulance or rescue vehicle is operated, relating to
the operation of motor vehicles, as the provision applies to motor vehicles in
general, except laws and regulations pertaining to compliance with official
traffic-control devices or to vehicular operation upon the right half of the
roadway.
      (5)   The ambulance shall display registration plates identifying the
vehicle as an ambulance.
   (B)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an ambulance or
rescue vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor do such provisions protect the driver from the consequences
resulting from the reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 72.48) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1421
§ 71.089 OPERATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section, NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE means a motor vehicle not
specifically designed to be used on a public highway, including:
      (1)   All-terrain vehicle. Any motorized off-highway device designed to
travel primarily off-highway, 50 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer’s dry weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three or more
non-highway tires, designed with a seat or saddle for operator use and
handlebars or steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as
lawnmowers;
      (2)   Golf cart. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the
purposes of transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or
maintenance equipment while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the
play of golf or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private
golf course;
      (3)   Off-highway motorcycle. Any motorized device designed to travel
primarily off-highway on two wheels, having a seat or saddle for the use of the
operator, upon or by which any person, persons or property may be transported
or drawn; and
      (4)   Recreational off-highway vehicle. Any motorized off-highway device
designed to travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer’s dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less for gas-powered engines or
3,000 pounds or less for electric-powered engines, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for
steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers.
   (B)   No person shall operate any non-highway vehicle upon any public
highway, street, roadway or right-of-way within the village.
   (C)   This prohibition shall not apply to:
      (1)   Village personnel operating non-highway vehicles in the course of
official village business or while performing duties on behalf of the village,
or while performing authorized tasks on behalf of the village under contract,
intergovernmental agreement or official duty assignment, whether on public
roads, rights-of-way or otherwise; or
      (2)   Agents or employees of a homeowners’ association (HOA), operating
non-highway vehicles within the scope of their employment or agency, and solely
for the purpose of conducting HOA-related maintenance, repair, inspection,
landscaping or similar activities.
   (D)   Any operation of a non-highway vehicle pursuant to the exceptions in
division (B) above shall be conducted in accordance with all applicable
provisions of 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e) through (g), including, but not limited
to, observance of the rules of the road, use of turn signals, insurance
requirements and prohibitions against operating while under the influence or in
a reckless manner.
(Ord. 25-2013, passed 11-5-2025) Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 71.100 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled-access highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1402) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.101 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s or motorist’s view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with their control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with their control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1406) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.102 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1407) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.103 RIDING IN TOWED VEHICLES.
   No person or persons shall occupy a trailer, semitrailer, farm wagon or any
other vehicle while it is being towed upon a public highway, unless:
   (A)   The occupancy of the towed vehicle is necessary to avoid an imminent
threat to a person’s safety due to extreme weather conditions or another
emergency situation;
   (B)   The speed of the vehicle does not exceed 15 mph and the vehicle is
used in connection with a parade, farming-related activity or similar activity;
or
   (C)   The speed of the vehicle does not exceed 15 mph and the passenger is
over the age of 18.
(Prior Code, § 72.58) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.104 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1410) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.105 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1411) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.106 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street, private road or driveway to be used at any fire
or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in
command.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1412) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.107 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK OR IN SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by human
power, to any electric personal assistive mobility device, nor to any motorized
wheelchair. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or preempt the
authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of the village from regulating
or prohibiting the use of electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1412.1)
   (C)   A person may not operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device upon a public sidewalk at a speed greater than eight mph.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1412.2)
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.108 PUTTING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any litter, as defined in the Litter Control
Act, 415 ILCS 105/3.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) above upon any highway shall
immediately remove the material or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance, as defined in
415 ILCS 5/3.215; hazardous waste, as defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.220; and
potentially infectious medical waste, as defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.360, dropped
upon the highway from such vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1413) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.109 OBSTRUCTING HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay, or willfully
and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct, any other person in
lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within the village; or
   (B)   Offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to interfere
with the effective movement of traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1416) Penalty, see §
71.999
 
§ 71.110 VIOLATION OF CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY RESTRICTIONS.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
(625 ILCS 5/11-711) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.111 OFF-STREET OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES ON PUBLIC AND
PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, go-cart or other similar motor vehicle on any public property within the
corporate limits of the village except on the roadway of a public street, and
then only if the vehicle is otherwise duly licensed for operation on the
roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any private property located within the
corporate limits of the village any motor vehicle, motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, go-cart or other similar motor vehicle without the expressed written
consent of the legal or beneficial owner of the property. Any person so
authorized to operate the aforementioned motor vehicles shall have a copy of
the written authorization in their possession at all times that they are
operating the vehicle on the property. This section shall not be applicable to
the operation of such motor vehicles in areas designated as motorcycle
recreation areas. This section shall not be applicable to the owner of the
premises where the motor vehicles are operated or to the owners, husband, wife,
children or duly authorized agent. Notwithstanding anything herein contained,
this section shall not be interpreted to prevent an owner or their guests from
parking motor vehicles on private property as provided for in the ordinances of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 72.67) (Ord. 493, passed 6-16-1976; Ord. 826, passed 7-22-1982)
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.112 EXCESSIVE NOISE FROM MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle, motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, go-cart or other similar motor vehicle within the corporate limits of
the village on any public or private property within the village in a manner so
as to create any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud or offensive noises
which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of others present in residences or other structures
near the vicinity of the property on which the vehicle is operated.
(Prior Code, § 72.68) (Ord. 493, passed 6-16-1976; Ord. 826, passed 7-22-1982)
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.113 ENGINE BRAKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works may designate portions of roadways
located within the village in which the use of engine braking systems by
commercial vehicles is prohibited. This authority shall extend to all streets
located within the village, including, but not limited to, those roadways under
federal, state or county jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   This authority may be applied in the following cases:
         (a)   On designated portions of roadways located within residential
zoning districts;
         (b)   On designated portions of roadways in which at least one-third
of the land uses abutting the roadway are residential;
         (c)   On roadways located within 1,000 feet of a hospital, school,
courthouse or similar facility; and
         (d)   On other roadways in which the Director reasonably determines
that the use of engine braking systems unreasonably interferes with the lawful
use and enjoyment of nearby property or otherwise is unreasonably detrimental
to public health or safety.
      (2)   In order to provide an appropriate buffer to the foregoing areas
and uses, the Director may also prohibit the use of engine braking systems by
commercial vehicles within 500 feet of that portion of a roadway approaching an
area described above in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b) or (B)(1)(c) above.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works shall post signs conforming to IDOT
specifications duly informing the operators of commercial vehicles of the
prohibition of the use of engine braking systems.
   (D)   The term COMMERCIAL VEHICLE shall have the definition set forth in §
1-111.8 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended (625 ILCS 5/1-111.8).
   (E)   This section does not apply to the use of an engine braking system
that has an adequate sound muffling system in proper working order that
prevents excessive noise.
   (F)   It is a defense to this section that the operator of a commercial
vehicle used an engine braking system that emits excessive noise in an
emergency to avoid a collision with a person or another vehicle on the roadway.
(Ord. 23-1861, passed 9-6-2023)
§ 71.114 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
Penalty, see §
71.999
**** PARADES ****
§ 71.125 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the village, or CRUISING as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
§ 71.126 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized village official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities; provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; and/or
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.127 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Procedure. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the Chief of Police or other authorized village official on
forms provided by such officer.
   (B)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (C)   Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chair and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade; the type of animals, if any; and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on their behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the Village Board of
Trustees from time to time.
§ 71.128 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall issue a
permit when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, they find that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the village to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the village;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
village other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; and
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.129 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall act on
the application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof.
   (B)   If they disapprove the application, they shall mail to the applicant
within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date
on which the application was filed, a notice of their action stating the
reasons for their denial of the permit.
§ 71.130 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the Village Board of Trustees. The appeal shall be taken within 30
days after notice of denial. The Village Board of Trustees shall act on the
appeal within 30 days after its receipt.
§ 71.131 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official, in denying
an application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct
of the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant.
   (B)   An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of their acceptance.
   (C)   An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and
shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this subchapter.
§ 71.132 NOTICE TO VILLAGE AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Mayor and the Fire Chief.
§ 71.133 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.134 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The parade chair or other person heading or leading the activity shall
carry the parade permit on their person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.135 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when those vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route.
      (1)   The Chief of Police or other authorized village official shall have
the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking
of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or part thereof
constituting a part of the route of a parade.
      (2)   Signs shall be posted to that effect, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
      (3)   No person shall be liable for parking on a street or other public
thoroughfare unless signs have been posted in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.136 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The village shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Overtaking a vehicle on the left. Every person convicted of §
71.003(E) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor if the violation does not
result in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to
another.
(625 ILCS 5/11-703(f))
   (C)   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train or railroad track
equipment. It is unlawful to violate any part of §
71.065.
      (1)   A violation of §
71.065 is a petty offense for which a fine of $500 shall be imposed for a first
violation, and a fine of $1,000 shall be imposed for a second or subsequent
violation. The court may impose 25 hours of community service in place of the
$500 fine for the first violation.
      (2)   For a second or subsequent violation, the Secretary of State may
suspend the driving privileges of the offender for a minimum of six months.
      (3)   Corporate authorities of village corporations regulating operators
of vehicles that fail to obey signals indicating the presence, approach,
passage or departure of a train or railroad track equipment shall impose fines
as established in division (C)(1) above.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1201(e))
   (D)   Stop when traffic obstructed. Beginning with January 1, 2009, the
Secretary of State shall suspend for a period of one month the driving
privileges of any person convicted of a violation of §
71.069(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance; the Secretary shall
suspend for a period of three months the driving privileges of any person
convicted of a second or subsequent violation of §
71.069(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance if the second or
subsequent violation occurs within five years of a prior conviction for the
same offense. In addition to the suspensions authorized by this section, any
person convicted of violating §
71.069(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall be subject to a
mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community service. Any person given a
disposition of court supervision for violating §
71.069(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall also be subject to
a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community service. Upon a second or
subsequent violation, in addition to the suspensions authorized by this
section, the person shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $500 and 50 hours
community service. The Secretary may also grant, for the duration of any
suspension issued under this division (F), a restricted driving permit granting
the privilege of driving a motor vehicle between the driver’s residence and
place of employment or within other proper limits that the Secretary of State
shall find necessary to avoid any undue hardship. A restricted driving permit
issued hereunder shall be subject to cancellation, revocation and suspension by
the Secretary of State in like manner and for like cause as a driver’s license
may be cancelled, revoked or suspended; except that a conviction upon one or
more offenses against laws or ordinances regulating the movement of traffic
shall be deemed sufficient cause for the revocation, suspension or cancellation
of the restricted driving permit. The Secretary of State may, as a condition to
the issuance of a restricted driving permit, require the applicant to
participate in a designated driver remedial or rehabilitative program. Any
conviction for a violation of this division (D) shall be included as an offense
for the purposes of determining suspension action under any other provision of
the Vehicle Code; provided, however, that the penalties provided under this
division (D) shall be imposed unless those penalties imposed under other
applicable provisions are greater.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1425(d))
   (E)   Stop on meeting stopped school bus. In addition to the suspensions
authorized by 625 ILCS 5/11-1414, any person convicted of violating §
71.070 or a similar provision of a local ordinance shall be subject to a
mandatory fine of $300 or, upon a second or subsequent violation, $1,000, and
community service in an amount set by the court.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1414(a)—(e))
   (F)   Operation of non-highway vehicles. Any person who violates §
71.089 shall be subject to a fine as set forth in §
70.99, and each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 25-2013, passed 11-5-2025)
CHAPTER 72: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
Speed Regulations
   
72.01   General speed restrictions
   
72.02   Special speed limits for school zones, construction and the like
   
72.03   Maximum attainable operating speed
   
72.04   Minimum speed
Impaired or Reckless Operation
   
72.15   Persons under the influence of alcohol or narcotic drugs
   
72.16   Implied consent to chemical test
   
72.17   Transportation of alcoholic liquor in open container
   
72.18   Reckless driving
   
72.19   Street racing
   
72.20   Permitting a driver under the influence to operate a motor vehicle
Accidents
   
72.35   Accident involving death or personal injuries
   
72.36   Accident involving damage to vehicle
   
72.37   Duty to give information and render aid
   
72.38   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   
72.39   Immediate notice of accident to Police Department
   
72.40   False reports
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Speed restrictions, see
Chapter 79, Schedule IX
**** SPEED REGULATIONS ****
§ 72.01 GENERAL SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of the village at a
speed which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or
property.
      (2)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, URBAN DISTRICT does not include any
interstate highway, as defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-133.1, which includes all
highways under the jurisdiction of the State Toll Highway Authority.
   (C)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any highway of the village at a
speed which is greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit
established by divisions (D), (E), (F), (G) or (H) below; by 625 ILCS 5/11-605;
or by a regulation or ordinance made under this chapter.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district (as defined in § 70.01) for all
vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty mph; and
      (2)   Fifteen mph in an alley.
(625 ILCS 5/11-601(a)—(c))
   (E)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in a non-urban district shall be as determined under
625 ILCS 5/11-601.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-1 and 625 ILCS 5/11-604
§ 72.02 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS FOR SCHOOL ZONES, CONSTRUCTION AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   School speed zones.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following
entities:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   A public, private or religious nursery school.
      (2)   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of 20 mph while passing a school zone, or while traveling on a local, county or
state roadway on public school property or upon any public thoroughfare where
children pass going to and from school.
      (3)   For the purpose of section, a SCHOOL DAY begins at 6:30 a.m. and
concludes at 4:00 p.m.
      (4)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and highways under their respective jurisdiction and
maintained by the village wherein the school zone is located. With regard to
the special speed limit while passing schools, such signs shall give proper due
warning that a school zone is being approached, and shall indicate the school
zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school days when school
children are present.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605(a))
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence obtained
thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding; provided the use of
the device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in the
special school speed zone.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605(c))
   (B)   Highway construction or maintenance speed zones.
      (1)   (a)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit when
workers are present.
         (b)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance speed zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit when
workers are not present.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a construction or maintenance
speed zone indicating the zone, as defined in this section, nor shall evidence
obtained by use of those devices be inadmissible in any prosecution for
speeding; provided the use of the device shall apply only to the enforcement of
the speed limit in the construction or maintenance speed zone.
      (3)   (a)   As used in this section, a CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE SPEED
ZONE is an area in which the Department, Toll Highway Authority or local agency
has posted signage advising drivers that a construction or maintenance speed
zone is being approached, or in which the Department, Authority or local agency
has posted a lower speed limit with a highway construction or maintenance speed
zone special speed limit sign after determining that the preexisting
established speed limit through a highway construction or maintenance project
is greater than is reasonable or safe with respect to the conditions expected
to exist in the construction or maintenance speed zone.
         (b)   If it is determined that the preexisting established speed limit
is safe with respect to the conditions expected to exist in the construction or
maintenance speed zone, additional speed limit signs which conform to the
requirements of this division (B)(3) shall be posted.
         (c)   Highway construction or maintenance speed zone special speed
limit signs shall be of a design approved by the Department. The signs must
give proper due warning that a construction or maintenance speed zone is being
approached and must indicate the maximum speed limit in effect. The signs also
must state the amount of the minimum fine for a violation.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(a)—(c))
      (4)   The Department of State Police and the Village Police Department
have concurrent jurisdiction over any violation of this division (B) that
occurs on an interstate highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(e-5))
      (5)   For a second or subsequent violation of this division (B) within
two years of the date of the previous violation, the Secretary of State shall
suspend the driver’s license of the violator for a period of 90 days. This
suspension shall only be imposed if the current violation of this division (B)
and at least one prior violation of this division (B) occurred during a period
when workers were present in the construction or maintenance zone.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(g))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE OPERATING SPEED.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or highway
in the village where the minimum allowable speed on that street or highway, as
posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of the vehicle.
Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the manufacturer of
the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of specifications and
operation, or it shall be determined by applicable rule and regulation
promulgated by the Secretary of State.
(625 ILCS 5/11-611) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 MINIMUM SPEED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede or block the normal and regular movement of traffic except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation of their vehicle or in compliance with
law.
(625 ILCS 5/11-606(a))
   (B)   Whenever the village determines, upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation concerning a highway or street under its jurisdiction
that slow vehicle speeds along any part or zone of such highway or street
consistently impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the
municipality may determine and declare by proper regulation or ordinance a
minimum speed limit below which no person shall drive except when necessary for
safe operation of their vehicle or in compliance with law. A limit so
determined and declared becomes effective when appropriate signs giving notice
of the limit are erected along such part or zone of the highway or street.
(Prior Code, § 73.04)
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-606
**** IMPAIRED OR RECKLESS OPERATION ****
§ 72.15 PERSONS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR NARCOTIC DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or be in actual physical control of any vehicle
within this village while:
      (1)   The alcohol concentration of the person’s blood or breath is 0.08
or more, based on the definition of blood and breath units;
      (2)   Under the influence of alcohol;
      (3)   Under the influence of any other drug or combination of drugs to a
degree which renders the person incapable of safe driving; and
      (4)   Under the combined influence of alcohol and any other drug or drugs
to a degree which renders the person incapable of safe driving.
   (B)   The fact that any person charged with violating division (A) above is
or has been legally entitled to use alcohol or other drugs or any combination
of both shall not constitute a defense against any charge of violating this
section.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any action or proceeding arising out of the acts
alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a
concentration of alcohol in the person’s blood or breath at the time of the act
alleged, as shown by analysis of their blood, urine, breath or other bodily
substance analysis shall give rise to the following presumptions.
      (1)   If there was at the time an alcohol concentration of 0.05 or less,
it shall be presumed that the person was not under the influence of alcohol.
      (2)   If there was at the time an alcohol concentration in excess of
0.05, but less than 0.08, such facts shall not give rise to any presumption
that the person was or was not under the influence of alcohol, but such fact
may be considered with other competent evidence in determining whether the
person was under the influence of alcohol.
      (3)   If there was at the time an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more,
it shall be presumed that the person was under the influence of alcohol.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions of this section shall not be construed as
limiting the introduction of any other relevant evidence bearing upon the
question whether the person was under the influence of alcohol.
   (E)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION shall mean either a
difference of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or difference of alcohol per
210 liters of breath.
(Prior Code, § 73.10) (Ord. 816, passed 1-20-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   For state law regulating driving while under the influence of alcohol, see
625 ILCS 5/11
§ 72.16 IMPLIED CONSENT TO CHEMICAL TEST.
   (A)   Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle upon the public streets of this village shall be deemed to have given
consent, subject to the provisions of all divisions set forth in §
72.15, to a chemical test or tests of blood, breath or urine for the purpose of
determining the alcohol, other drug or combination thereof, content of the
person’s blood, if released as evidenced by the issuance of a uniform traffic
ticket for any offense as defined in §
72.15. The test or tests shall be administered at the direction of the
arresting officer. The Police Chief shall designate which of the aforesaid
tests shall be administered by the Village Police Department officers.
      (1)   Any person who is dead, unconscious or who is otherwise in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal shall be deemed not to have
withdrawn the consent provided by division (A) above and the test or tests may
be administered subject to the provisions of division (C) below.
      (2)   A person requested to submit to a test as provided above shall be
warned by the police officer requesting the test that a refusal to submit to
the test will result in suspension of the person’s license to operate a motor
vehicle for six months for the first such arrest and refusal, and a suspension
of the privilege for 12 months for the second and each such arrest and refusal
within the last five years. Following this warning, if a person under arrest
refuses upon the request of the police officer to submit to a test designated
by the Police Department as provided in division (A) above, none shall be
given, but the police officer shall file with the Clerk of the Circuit Court of
the county, a sworn statement naming the person refusing to take and complete
the test or tests requested under the provisions of this section. The sworn
statement shall identify the arrested person’s drivers license number and
current residence address and shall specify that a refusal by the person to
take the test or tests was made. The sworn statement shall include a statement
that the arresting officer had reasonable cause to believe the person was
driving the motor vehicle within the village while under the influence of
alcohol, other drug or combination thereof or that test or tests were made as
an incident to and following the lawful arrest for an offense as defined in §
72.15, and that the person after being arrested for an offense arising out of
acts alleged to have been committed while so driving or in actual physical
control of the motor vehicle refused to submit to and complete a test or tests
as requested by the police officer.
   (B)   If a person under arrest refuses to submit to a chemical test under
the provision of division (A) above, evidence of refusal shall be admissible at
trial arising out of acts alleged to have been committed while the person under
the influence of alcohol or other drugs or combination of both was driving or
in actual physical control of a motor vehicle.
   (C)   When a person shall submit to a blood test at the request of a police
officer under the provisions of division (A) above, only a physician authorized
to practice medicine, a registered nurse or other qualified person approved by
the Department of Public Health may withdraw blood for the purpose of
determining the alcohol, drug or alcohol and drug content therein. This
limitation shall not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens.
   (D)   Upon the request of the person who submitted to a chemical test or
tests at the request of a police officer, full information concerning the test
or tests shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney.
(Prior Code, § 73.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   For state law concerning implied consent, see 625 ILCS 5/11-501.1
§ 72.17 TRANSPORTATION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN OPEN CONTAINER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below and in §§ 6-6.5 and 6-33 of
the Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5/6-6.5 and 5/6-33, no person
shall transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the
passenger area of any motor vehicle upon a highway in this state except in the
original container and with the seal unbroken.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below and in §§ 6-6.5 and 6-33 of
the Liquor Control Act of 1934, no passenger may carry, possess or have any
alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any motor vehicle upon a highway
in this state except in the original container and with the seal unbroken.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to a limousine when it is being used for
purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the passengers on a
chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which chartered buses are
ordinarily used or on a motor home or minimotor home, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/
1-145.01. However, the driver of any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming
or having any alcoholic liquor in or about the driver’s area. Any evidence of
alcoholic consumption by the driver shall be prima facie evidence of the
driver’s failure to obey this section. For the purposes of this section, a
limousine is a motor vehicle of the first division with the passenger
compartment enclosed by a partition or dividing window used in the for-hire
transportation of passengers and operated by an individual in possession of a
valid state driver’s license of the appropriate classification pursuant to 625
ILCS 5/6-104.
   (D)   Any driver who is convicted of violating division (A) above for a
second or subsequent time within one year of a similar conviction shall be
subject to suspension of driving privileges as provided in 625 ILCS 5/6-206.
   (E)   Any driver, who is less than 21 years of age at the date of the
offense and who is convicted of violating division (A) above or a similar
provision of a local ordinance, shall be subject to the loss of driving
privileges as provided in 625 ILCS 5/6-205(a), paragraph 13.
(Prior Code, § 73.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Use or possession of open liquor on public ways, §
134.01
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-502
§ 72.18 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   A person commits reckless driving if they:
   (A)   Drive any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the safety of
persons or property; or
   (B)   Knowingly drive a vehicle and uses an incline in a roadway, such as a
railroad crossing, bridge approach or hill, to cause the vehicle to become
airborne.
(625 ILCS 5/11-503(a)) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 STREET RACING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall engage in street racing on any street or highway
of the state.
      (2)   No person shall engage in a street sideshow on any street or
highway of the state.
   (B)   (1)   No owner of any vehicle shall acquiesce in or permit their
vehicle to be used by another for the purpose of street racing or a street
sideshow.
      (2)   A person may not knowingly interfere with or cause the movement of
traffic to slow or stop for the purpose of facilitating street racing or a
street sideshow.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACQUIESCE or PERMIT. Actual knowledge that the motor vehicle was to be
used for the purpose of street racing or a street sideshow.
      MOTOR VEHICLE STUNT. Includes, but is not limited to, operating a vehicle
in a manner that causes the vehicle to slide or spin, driving within the
proximity of a gathering of persons, performing maneuvers to demonstrate the
performance capability of the motor vehicle or maneuvering the vehicle in an
attempt to elicit a reaction from a gathering of persons.
      STREET RACING.
         (a)   The operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by side
at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to outdistance each other;
         (b)   The operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected
course, each starting at the same point, for the purpose of comparing the
relative speeds or power of acceleration of such vehicle or vehicles within a
certain distance or time limit;
         (c)   The use of one or more vehicles in an attempt to outgain or
outdistance another vehicle;
         (d)   The use of one or more vehicles to prevent another vehicle from
passing;
         (e)   The use of one or more vehicles to arrive at a given destination
ahead of another vehicle or vehicles; or
         (f)   The use of one or more vehicles to test the physical stamina or
endurance of drivers over long-distance driving routes.
      STREET SIDESHOW. An event in which one or more vehicles block or impede
traffic on a street or highway for the purpose of performing unauthorized motor
vehicle stunts, motor vehicle speed contests or motor vehicle exhibitions of
speed.
   (D)   Every person convicted of committing a violation of division (A) above
shall be guilty of aggravated street racing if the person, in committing a
violation of division (A) above, was involved in a motor vehicle crash that
resulted in great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to
another, where the violation was a proximate cause of the injury.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 PERMITTING A DRIVER UNDER THE INFLUENCE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person shall knowingly cause, authorize or permit a motor vehicle owned
by, or under the control of, the person to be driven or operated upon a highway
by anyone who is under the influence of alcohol, other drugs or combination
thereof. This provision shall not apply to a spouse of the person who owns or
has control of, or a co-owner of, a motor vehicle, or to a bailee for hire.
(Prior Code, § 73.16) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/6-304.1
**** ACCIDENTS ****
§ 72.35 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle
at the scene of the crash, or as close thereto as possible, and shall then
forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of the crash
until the requirements of §
72.37 have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with the requirements
of division (A) above shall, as soon as possible, but in no case later than
one-half hour after such motor vehicle crash, or, if hospitalized and
incapacitated from reporting at any time during such period, as soon as
possible but in no case later than one-half hour after being discharged from
the hospital, report the place of the crash, the date, the approximate time,
the driver’s name and address, the registration number of the vehicle driven
and the names of all other occupants of such vehicle, at a police station or
Sheriff’s Office near the place where such crash occurred. No report made as
required under this division (B) shall be used, directly or indirectly, as a
basis for the prosecution of any violation of division (A) above.
   (C)   Any person arrested for violating this section is subject to chemical
testing of their blood, breath, other bodily substance or urine for the
presence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or
any combination thereof, as provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-501.1, if the testing
occurs within 12 hours of the time of the occurrence of the crash that led to
their arrest. The person’s driving privileges are subject to statutory summary
suspension under 625 ILCS 5/11-501.1 if they fail testing or statutory summary
revocation under 625 ILCS 5/11-501.1 if they refuse to undergo the testing.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, PERSONAL INJURY shall mean any injury
requiring immediate professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor’s
office.
(625 ILCS 5/11-401(a)—(b-1))
   (E)   The Secretary of State shall revoke the driving privilege of any
person convicted of a violation of this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-401(e))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall
immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle crash or as
close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every event
shall remain at the scene of such motor vehicle crash until the requirements of
§
72.37 have been fulfilled. A driver does not violate this section if the driver
moves the vehicle as soon as possible off the highway to the nearest safe
location on an exit ramp shoulder, a frontage road, the nearest suitable cross
street or other suitable location that does not obstruct traffic and remains at
that location until the driver has fulfilled the requirements of §
72.37. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of the
vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved
so as not to block the traffic lanes.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, and in
such case a statement of this finding shall be reported to the Secretary of
State with the report of conviction as required by 625 ILCS 5/6-204. Upon
receipt of such report of conviction and statement of finding that the damage
to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, the Secretary of State shall suspend the
driver’s license or any nonresident’s driving privilege.
   (C)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds:
      (1)   A vehicle standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a
prohibition, limitation or restriction on stopping, standing or parking imposed
under this title; or
      (2)   A disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or toll
highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to move
the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle to
the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted or to public
parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under the
direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities. After the vehicle has been removed, the
peace officer or highway authority official shall follow appropriate
procedures, as provided in 625 ILCS 5/4-203.
   (D)   A towing service, its officers and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (C) above, as provided
in 625 ILCS 5/4-213(b).
(625 ILCS 5/11-402)
§ 72.37 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle crash resulting
in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall give the driver’s name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating, and shall upon request
and if available, exhibit the driver’s license to the person struck or the
driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with, and shall
render to any person injured in the crash reasonable assistance, including the
carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of the person to a
physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment, if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
section is in condition to receive and understand the information and no police
officer is present, the driver, after rendering reasonable assistance, shall
forthwith report the motor vehicle crash at the Police Department, disclosing
the information required by this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-403)
§ 72.38 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in
a motor vehicle crash with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of the driver’s name, address, registration
number and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach
securely in a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a
written notice giving the driver’s name, address, registration number and owner
of the vehicle the driver was driving and shall without unnecessary delay
notify the Police Department and shall make a written report of such crash when
and as required in 625 ILCS 5/11-407.
      (2)   Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than
is necessary.
      (3)   If a damaged vehicle is obstructing traffic lanes, the driver of
the vehicle must make every reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it
moved so as not to block the traffic lanes.
   (B)   (1)   If any peace officer or highway authority official finds a
vehicle standing upon a highway or toll highway in violation of a prohibition,
limitation or restriction on stopping, standing or parking imposed under this
code, or a disabled vehicle that obstructs the roadway of a highway or toll
highway, the peace officer or highway authority official is authorized to move
the vehicle or to require the operator of the vehicle to move the vehicle to
the shoulder of the road, to a position where parking is permitted or to public
parking or storage premises. The removal may be performed by, or under the
direction of, the peace officer or highway authority official or may be
contracted for by local authorities.
      (2)   After the vehicle has been removed, the peace officer or highway
authority official shall follow appropriate procedures.
   (C)   A towing service, its officers and its employees are not liable for
loss of or damages to any real or personal property that occurs as the result
of the removal or towing of any vehicle under division (B) above.
(625 ILCS 5/11-404)
§ 72.39 IMMEDIATE NOTICE OF ACCIDENT TO POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle that is in any manner involved in a crash in
this village that requires notice to be given to the local police department,
the County Sheriff or the State Police under 625 ILCS 5/11-407 shall, if no
police officer is present, give notice of the crash by the fastest available
means of communication to the local police department if such crash occurs
within a municipality or otherwise to the nearest office of the County Sheriff
or nearest headquarters of the State Police. Notice is required to be given
under this division (A) if the crash:
      (1)   Results in injury to or death of any person;
      (2)   Results in damage to the property of any person, including the
driver, in excess of $1,500 (or $500 if any of the vehicles involved in the
accident is subject to 625 ILCS 5/7-601 but is not covered by a liability
insurance policy) in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/7-601;
      (3)   If a school bus is involved in the crash and the crash is caused by
a collision, a sudden stop or otherwise, and the crash results in any property
damage, personal injury or death; or
      (4)   If the crash occurs within 50 feet of a school bus and results in
personal injury to or death of any person who is awaiting or preparing to board
the school bus or immediately after the person exits the school bus.
   (B)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of a crash as required in division (A) above and there was
another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the crash capable of doing so,
that occupant must give notice as required in division (A) above.
(625 ILCS 5/11-407) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.40 FALSE REPORTS.
   Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
this chapter with knowledge or reason to believe that the information is false
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as set out in §
72.99(J).
(625 ILCS 5/11-409)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Speeding. A first violation of §
72.01 is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $150. A second or subsequent
violation of §
72.01 is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $300.
   (C)   Special speed limit while passing schools.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) below, a person who
violates §
72.02(A) is guilty of a petty offense. Violations of §
72.02(A) are punishable with a minimum fine of $150 for the first violation, a
minimum fine of $300 for the second or subsequent violation and community
service in an amount determined by the court.
         (b)   A person committing a violation of §
72.02(A) is guilty of aggravated special speed limit while passing schools when
they drive a motor vehicle at a speed that is:
            1.   Twenty-six mph or more but less than 35 mph in excess of the
applicable special speed limit established under §
72.02(A) or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor; or
            2.   Thirty-five mph or more in excess of the applicable special
speed limit established under §
72.02(A) or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605(e), (e-5))
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided under §
72.02 (B)(2)(b), a person who violates §
72.02(B) is guilty of a petty offense. Violations of §
72.02(B) are punishable with a minimum fine of $250 for the first violation and
a minimum fine of $750 for the second or subsequent violation.
         (b)   A person committing a violation of §
72.02(B) is guilty of aggravated special speed limit while traveling through a
highway construction or maintenance speed zone when they drive a motor vehicle
at a speed that is:
            1.   Twenty-six mph or more but less than 35 mph in excess of the
applicable special speed limit established under §
72.02(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor; or
            2.   Thirty-five mph or more in excess of the applicable special
speed limit established under §
72.02(B) or a similar provision of a local ordinance and is guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(d), (d-5)
   (D)   Chemical tests. A person convicted of violating §
72.16 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and on a second or
subsequent conviction for an offense committed within five years after the
commission of the first offense, shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500.
(Prior Code, § 73.11)
   (E)   Reckless driving. Every person convicted of reckless driving under §
72.18 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, except as provided under 625
ILCS 5/11-503 for felony offenses.
(625 ILCS 5/11-503)
   (F)   Street racing.
      (1)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of §
72.19(A) or (B)(2) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for the first
offense and shall be subject to a minimum fine of $250. Any person convicted of
a violation of §
72.19(A) or (B)(2) a second or subsequent time shall be guilty of a Class Four
felony and shall be subject to a minimum fine of $500. The driver’s license of
any person convicted of §
72.19(A) or (B)(2) shall be revoked in the manner provided by 625 ILCS 5/6-205.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of §
72.19(B)(1) shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Any person who is
convicted of §
72.19(B)(1) for a second or subsequent time shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
      (3)   Aggravated street racing, as set out in §
72.19(D), is a Class Four felony for which the defendant, if sentenced to a
term of imprisonment, shall be sentenced to not less than one year nor more
than 12 years.
(625 ILCS 5/11-506)
   (G)   Operating under the influence. Any person convicted of violating §
72.20 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 73.16)
   (H)   Crash involving damage. Any person failing to comply with §
72.36 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-402(a))
   (I)   Reporting and rendering aid. Any person failing to comply with §
72.37 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-403)
   (J)   Damaging unattended property. Any person failing to comply with §
72.38 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-404)
   (K)   False reports. Any person violating §
72.40 shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-409)
(Ord. 816, passed 1-20-1982)
CHAPTER 73: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   General parking regulations
   
73.02   Stopping, standing or parking in certain places prohibited
   
73.03   Stopping, standing or parking outside business or residence district
   
73.04   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
73.05   Unattended motor vehicles
   
73.06   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
   
73.07   Persons with disabilities exempt from certain parking regulations
   
73.08   Limitations on parking of vehicles of second division
   
73.09   Maximum number of vehicles on village streets
   
73.10   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
   
73.11   Parking violations
   
73.12   Repairing vehicles on the streets
   
73.13   Use of registration information in enforcement
   
73.14   Parking at the Romeoville Metra Station
   
73.15   Romeoville Metra Station parking permits/daily fee spaces
   
73.16   Regulation of unscheduled bus stops
Snow Emergencies
   
73.30   Announcement of snow emergency
   
73.31   Termination of emergency
   
73.32   Snow emergency routes
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Specific parking regulations, see
Chapter 79
   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited during certain times, see
Chapter 79, Schedule IV
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 73.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   No angle parking shall be permitted except as set forth by ordinance.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit or
restrict the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1304) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN CERTAIN PLACES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks. A violation of any part of the division
shall result in a mandatory fine of $500 or 50 hours of community service.
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers;
         (l)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration; and
         (m)   Within any portion of a public street striped to provide an
access area for persons to access and utilize a ramp connecting a sidewalk and
a street.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 40 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted);
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing;
         (g)   Within 15 feet of a curbside cluster mailbox between the hours
of 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday. As used herein, the term
CURBSIDE CLUSTER MAILBOX means and includes any box or receptacle held out or
intended to receive deliveries of United States Mail that contains two or more
separate areas for the receipt of United States Mail to separate addresses,
including, but not limited to, an assemblage of two or more individual
mailboxes placed closely together in a manner reasonably intended to facilitate
delivery of United States Mail; and
         (h)   Within 15 feet of any single curbside mailbox belonging to
another between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
A violation is presumed to be present if the registration address of any
vehicle parking with such 15-foot area does not match the address of the
mailbox within such 15-foot area, or if the officer obtains reliable
information from another source that the parked vehicle has no relation to the
address of the mailbox within such 15-foot area.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; and
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under their control into
any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   The Village Police Department shall be authorized to impose and
enforce temporary restrictions or prohibitions on parking on any village
streets or village property as and when needed to accommodate the conduct of
special events occurring for limited periods of time within the village
(including, but not limited to, Romeo Fest or the Founders’ Day Parade) or the
completion of road or utility construction projects. All such temporary
restrictions or prohibitions on parking shall be clearly posted with temporary
signage indicating the terms of the temporary restrictions or prohibitions on
parking. The temporary parking restrictions, prohibitions and signage
contemplated and authorized herein shall have the same force and effect as the
permanent parking restrictions, prohibitions and signage otherwise authorized
by this chapter. Vehicles parked in violation of any temporary parking
restrictions or prohibitions posted by temporary signage in compliance with
this chapter shall be subject to towing at the vehicle owner’s expense in
accordance with the provisions of this code. Any temporary parking signage
posted shall advise vehicle owners that vehicles parked in violation of the
temporary parking restrictions or prohibitions contained on such signage may be
subject to tow.
   (D)   Vehicles parked in violation of any parking restrictions or
prohibitions posted by signage in compliance with this chapter shall be subject
to towing at the vehicle owner’s expense in accordance with the provisions of
this code; provided that any parking signage posted advises vehicle owners that
vehicles parked in violation of the parking restrictions or prohibitions
contained on such signage may be subject to tow.
(Prior Code, § 74.02) (Ord. 2705-99, passed 10-20-1999; Ord. 06-0469, passed
11-1-2006; Ord. 07-0521, passed 3-21-2007; Ord. 07-0525, passed 4-18-2007; Ord.
11-0928, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 16-1276, passed 4-20-2016; Ord. 19-1563, passed
5-15-2019; Ord. 23-1852, passed 5-3-2023) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   (1)   The village, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or
for the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any highway where,
in its opinion, stopping, standing or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing or parking vehicles would unduly interfere
with the free movement of traffic thereon.
      (2)   Any regulations adopted by the village regarding the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles upon any specific street, streets or highways
become effective at the time of the erection of appropriate signs indicating
the regulations.
   (C)   This section, and §
73.02 and 625 ILCS 5/11-1304, shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle
which is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to
avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in that position.
   (D)   (1)   Any second division vehicle used exclusively for the collection
of garbage, refuse or recyclable material may stop or stand on the road in a
business, rural or residential district for the sole purpose of collecting
garbage, refuse or recyclable material.
      (2)   The vehicle, in addition to having its hazard lights lighted at all
times that it is engaged in stopping or standing, shall also use its amber
oscillating, rotating or flashing light or lights as authorized under 625 ILCS
5/12-215(b)(12), if so equipped.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
73.03, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the
roadway.
   (B)   (1)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing
upon any highway, bridge, causeway or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
      (2)   Whenever the Department finds an abandoned or disabled vehicle
standing upon the paved or main-traveled part of a highway, which vehicle is or
may be expected to interrupt the free flow of traffic on the highway or
interfere with the maintenance of the highway, the Department is authorized to
move the vehicle to a position off the paved or improved or main-traveled part
of the highway.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal;
      (3)   The person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested for an
alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the person
arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay; or
      (4)   The registration of the vehicle has been suspended, canceled or
revoked.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1302)
§ 73.05 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except for a law enforcement officer or an operator of an authorized
emergency vehicle performing their official duties, no person driving or in
charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without stopping
the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition,
effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any perceptible
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway.
   (B)   An unattended motor vehicle shall not include an unattended locked
motor vehicle with the engine running after being started by a remote starter
system.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1401) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
properly displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with
disabilities, as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2, or to a veteran
with a disability pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609, as evidence that the vehicle is
operated by or for a person with disabilities or a veteran with a disability,
in any parking place, including any private or public off-street parking
facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as
designated under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such
registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle in a
designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place specifically reserved for
persons with disabilities, by the posting of an official sign as designated
under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such registration
plates. When using the parking privileges for persons with disabilities, the
parking decal or device must be displayed properly in the vehicle where it is
clearly visible to law enforcement personnel, either hanging from the rearview
mirror or placed on the dashboard of the vehicle in clear view. Disability
license plates and parking decals and devices are not transferable from person
to person. Proper usage of the disability license plate or parking decal or
device requires the authorized holder to be present and enter or exit the
vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being used.
         (a)   It is a violation of this section to park in a space reserved
for a person with disabilities if the authorized holder of the disability
license plate or parking decal or device does not enter or exit the vehicle at
the time the parking privileges are being used. Any motor vehicle properly
displaying a disability license plate or a parking decal or device containing
the international symbol of access issued to persons with disabilities by any
local authority, state, district, territory or foreign country shall be
recognized by state and village authorities as a valid license plate or device
and receive the same parking privileges as residents of the state.
         (b)   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license
plates or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a
disability under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2, or to a veteran
with a disability under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section if:
            1.   The person using the disability license plate or parking decal
or device is not the authorized holder of the disability license plate or
parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from the parking
location; and
            2.   The person uses the disability license plate or parking decal
or device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license
plate or parking decals or devices under this code.
         (c)   A driver of a vehicle displaying disability license plates or a
parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability under
625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2, or to a veteran with a disability
under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section if:
            1.   The person to whom the disability license plate or parking
decal or device was issued is deceased; and
            2.   The driver uses the disability license plate or parking decal
or device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license
plate or parking decal or device under this code.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a) through (a-2))
      (2)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b))
      (3)   The village shall impose fines as established in §
73.99 for violations of this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d))
      (4)   As used in this section, AUTHORIZED HOLDER means an individual
issued a disability license plate under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, an individual issued
a parking decal or device under 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 or an individual issued a
license plate for veterans with disabilities under 625 ILCS 5/11-609.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(e))
      (5)   Any police officer may seize the parking decal or device from any
person who commits a violation of this section. Any police officer may seize
the disability license plate upon authorization from the Secretary of State.
Any police officer may request that the Secretary of State revoke the parking
decal or device or the disability license plate of any person who commits a
violation of this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(g))
   (B)   No property owner shall allow any unreasonable obstruction of a
designated aisle or parking space specifically reserved for persons with
disabilities after 24 hours following the conclusion of an adverse weather
event.
   (C)   No property owner shall allow the accumulation of debris or large
objects, such as trash containers, to unreasonably obstruct any designated
aisle or parking space specifically reserved for persons with disabilities
without providing suitable and equivalent alternative parking spaces on-site.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) above shall apply to both public and private
property where any designated aisle or parking place is specifically reserved
for persons with disabilities, by the posting of an official sign as designated
under § 11-301 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended, and the applicable
provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 74.06) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996; Ord. 06-0381, passed 3-
1-2006; Ord. 11-0911, passed 6-1-2011) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES EXEMPT FROM CERTAIN PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A motor vehicle bearing registration plates or digital registration
plates issued to a person with disabilities, as defined in §
70.01, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616, or to a veteran with a disability pursuant
to 625 ILCS 5/3-609(a), or a special decal or device issued pursuant to 625
ILCS 5/3-616 or 5/11-1301.2 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, or a motor vehicle
registered in another jurisdiction upon which is displayed a registration plate
or digital registration plate, special decal or device issued by the other
jurisdiction designating the vehicle is operated by or for a person with
disabilities, shall be exempt from the payment of parking meter fees until
January 1, 2014, and exempt from any ordinance imposing time limitations on
parking except limitations of one-half hour or less, on any street or highway
zone, a parking area subject to regulation under 625 ILCS 5/11-209(a) or any
parking lot or parking place which are owned, leased or owned and leased by a
municipality or a municipal parking utility; and shall be recognized by state
and local authorities as a valid license plate or parking device and shall
receive the same parking privileges as residents of this state; but such
vehicle shall be subject to the laws which prohibit parking in “no stopping”
and “no standing” zones in front of or near fire hydrants, driveways, public
building entrances and exits, bus stops and loading areas. Such a vehicle is
prohibited from parking where the motor vehicle constitutes a traffic hazard,
whereby the motor vehicle shall be moved at the instruction and request of a
law enforcement officer to a location designated by the officer.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle bearing registration plates or digital registration
plates or a special decal or device specified in this section or 625 ILCS 5/3-
616 or such parking device as specifically authorized in 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2
as evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a person with disabilities
or bearing registration plates or digital registration plates issued to a
veteran with a disability under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 may park, in addition to any
other lawful place, in any parking place specifically reserved for such
vehicles, by the posting of an official sign as provided by 625 ILCS 5/11-301.
Parking privileges granted by this section are strictly limited to the person
to whom the special registration plates or digital registration plates, special
decal or device were issued and to qualified operators acting under their
express direction while the person with disabilities is present. A person to
whom privileges were granted shall, at the request of a police officer or any
other person invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic, present an identification card with a picture as verification that the
person is the person to whom the special registration plates or digital
registration plates, special decal or device was issued.
   (C)   The parking privileges granted by this section are also extended to
motor vehicles of not-for-profit organizations used for the transportation of
persons with disabilities when those motor vehicles display the decal or device
issued pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2.
   (D)   No person shall use any area for the parking of any motor vehicle
pursuant to §
73.02, or where an official sign controlling the area expressly prohibits
parking at any time or during certain hours.
   (E)   Beginning January 1, 2014, a vehicle displaying a decal or device
issued under 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2(c-5) shall be exempt from the payment of fees
generated by parking in a metered space or in a publicly-owned parking area.
(Prior Code, § 74.07) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1
§ 73.08 LIMITATIONS ON PARKING OF VEHICLES OF SECOND DIVISION.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or an additional traffic control
device, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle of the second division,
as defined in § 5/1-217 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1-217,
on any village street at any time, except when such stopping, standing or
parking of the vehicle is caused in furtherance of the making of deliveries,
the rendering of services to a property owner or the transportation of
passengers. Unless other restrictions are provided for by other laws, the
provisions of this section shall not apply to or otherwise limit the parking of
vehicles which are registered and/or taxed as Class D vehicles as provided in §
5/3-815 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/3-815.
(Prior Code, § 74.075) (Ord. 2489-97, passed 8-6-1997) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF VEHICLES ON VILLAGE STREETS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the direction of a police officer or an additional traffic
control device, it shall be unlawful for more than two vehicles to be parked
simultaneously on any village street where all such vehicles are registered to
or in the custody or control of persons residing at the same village address,
except where it is impracticable for the registered owner or owners or persons
in control of such vehicles to park the vehicles off the street or roadway due
to the unavailability of such persons’ garage structure or driveway where such
unavailability is caused by repair or improvements to such garage structure or
driveway.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a person shall be deemed to be a
“resident” of any village address which is shown in the state registration
information pertaining to any vehicle to which their name is registered, and a
person shall also be deemed to be a “resident” of any village address at which
that person actually resides.
   (C)   Where a village police officer has reasonable grounds to believe that
a violation of division (A) above is being committed, they shall post improper
parking citations or notices on all of the vehicles which are simultaneously
parked on the village street in question and which are registered to or in the
custody or control of persons residing at the same village address.
(Prior Code, § 74.0756) (Ord. 2489-97, passed 8-6-1997) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases the vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving the vehicle, shall, upon request, provide such police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof, with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of the offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates or
digital registration plates and registration sticker or stickers or digital
registration sticker or stickers of the vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1305)
§ 73.11 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever any motor vehicle is found to be parked in violation of this
traffic code with respect to rules prohibiting parking a vehicle in a
designated area, or restricting the length of time a vehicle may be there
parked, police officers of the village shall conspicuously attach to such
vehicle a notice on a form provided by the village, which notice shall contain
the registration number of the vehicle, and shall instruct the owner or
operator that the vehicle has been parked in violation of a provision of this
traffic code, and shall advise the owner or operator of the penalty provided
therefor and the method of paying the penalty within five days from the time of
the issuance of the notice.
   (B)   Effective for parking violation notices issued on or after October 1,
2014 for violations of any applicable provision of the this code regulating or
prohibiting parking in designated areas or for designated periods of time, the
fine for such violations shall be $30 except where otherwise specifically
provided for in this code, and except for violations of
Chapter 79, Schedule II, and except for any other violations of this code
provisions regulating or prohibiting parking in designated areas or for
designated periods of time where such violations occur on public roads or
streets of the village after a snowfall, within any 24-hour period, causes an
accumulation of snow on any public street or roads of the village to a depth of
two inches or more, and prior to such time as snow removal operations are
completed, for which the applicable fine shall be $50.
(Prior Code, § 74.09) (Ord. 661, passed 11-15-1978; Ord. 774, passed 2-18-1981;
Ord. 2233-93, passed 7-21-1993; Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996; Ord. 2705-99,
passed 10-20-1999; Ord. 03-0077, passed 11-5-2003; Ord. 10-0846, passed 4-7-
2010; Ord. 14-1108, passed 10-1-2014)
§ 73.12 REPAIRING VEHICLES ON THE STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair or to allow repairs to be done
to a motor vehicle while said vehicle is on a street or roadway, except for
emergency repairs required to permit the vehicle to be safely moved from such
street or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 74.10) (Ord. 1058-88, passed 8-17-1988) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13 USE OF REGISTRATION INFORMATION IN ENFORCEMENT.
   Any and all information lawfully obtained by the village with respect to the
registration of vehicles pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Illinois
Vehicle Code may be utilized by the village as evidence of the ownership and
location within the village of the parking, storage, use or housing of any
motor vehicle as the same pertains to the enforcement of this chapter and any
other pertinent provisions of the code.
(Prior Code, § 74.11) (Ord. 0023-03, passed 3-19-2003)
§ 73.14 PARKING AT THE ROMEOVILLE METRA STATION.
   (A)   Except as may be otherwise authorized by the Village Manager or their
designee, no person shall be allowed to park a vehicle at the Romeoville Metra
Station without first purchasing a numbered daily fee space corresponding to
the exact numbered location at which the vehicle is parked, or without
displaying a daily, semiannual or annual parking pass. Daily fee spaces shall
be available on a first come, first served basis. Due to the size and existing
configuration of the Romeoville Metra Station parking lot, no daily fee spaces
exist or are available for use or permitting by any bus as defined in the
Illinois Vehicle Code, and no bus as so defined shall park, stop, stand or
discharge passengers at the Romeoville Metra Station; provided, however, that
the foregoing prohibition shall not apply to buses owned or operated by Pace,
Metra, RTA or other governmental transportation authority.
   (B)   No person shall be allowed to park at the Romeoville Metra Station
other than in the appropriate designated parking areas. Designated parking
areas shall be separately established for daily passes and for semiannual and
annual passes. A parking citation issued pursuant to this division (B) shall
carry a fine in the amount of $30 pursuant to §
73.11(B).
   (C)   The Village Board shall establish daily, semiannual and annual fees to
be charged for the privilege of parking at the Romeoville Metra Station in an
amount as set forth in the fee schedule contained within Chapter 43.
(Prior Code, § 74.12) (Ord. 18-1457, passed 1-17-2018; Ord. 23-1890, passed 12-
20-2023) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.15 ROMEOVILLE METRA STATION PARKING PERMITS/DAILY FEE SPACES.
   Except as may be otherwise authorized by the Village Manager or their
designee, no person shall park any vehicle within the Romeoville Metra Station
parking lot without a semiannual or annual parking permit obtained in
accordance with this section and any permit parking rules and regulations
promulgated by the village from time to time, or without having purchased a
numbered daily fee space corresponding to the exact numbered location at which
the vehicle is parked.
   (A)   Rules and regulations. The village shall promulgate permit parking
rules and regulations as necessary to implement the provisions of this section
and §
73.14 concerning the issuance and use of commuter parking permits. A copy of
such rules and regulations shall be available at Village Hall and amendments to
the same shall be mailed to each permit holder when substantive changes are
made to the rules and regulations. Signage advising of the existence of such
regulations and of the means of reviewing the same shall be posted within the
Metra Station parking lot.
   (B)   Towing. The Romeoville Metra Station parking lot is designated as a
“tow away zone” and shall be appropriately posted as such. Any vehicle parked
in violation of this section or §
73.14 may be towed by order of the Village Police Department as an unlawful
vehicle pursuant to §
78.32(B), and any bus parked in violation of this section or §
73.14 shall further be subject to impoundment as set forth in §
78.38, and this sentence shall be deemed to be incorporated by this reference
into
Appendix A to Chapter 78. Any such towing of a vehicle shall not preclude the
issuance of a citation to the owner of such vehicle for violating §
73.14 or this section.
   (C)   Parking permit issuance and permit fee payment.
      (1)   Daily parking permits. Daily parking permits may be purchased at a
pay station located within the Romeoville Metra Station parking lot, and may be
paid for in cash using exact change only, or with a credit card or mobile
phone. Payments made by credit card or mobile phone will be subject to an
electronic transaction fee in addition to the fee for the daily parking permit.
All daily parking permits must be purchased and paid for prior to 10:00 a.m. on
the desired permit date.
      (2)   Semiannual and annual parking permits. Semiannual and annual
parking permits may only be purchased through the village’s third-party parking
services provider, and may be purchased through the provider’s website, mobile
app or by phone. All purchases of semiannual or annual parking permits will be
subject to an electronic transaction fee in addition to the fees for the
desired parking permit. Further information concerning the then-current
information regarding the purchase of semiannual and annual parking permits
through the village’s third-party parking services provider may be obtained
from the village website at www.romeoville.org or by contacting the village at
(815) 886-7200.
   (D)   Fees. All parking fees as established by the fee schedule set forth in
Chapter 43 shall be paid before any commuter parking permit is issued. All fees
paid pursuant shall be nonrefundable.
   (E)   Electronic transaction fees. For the convenience of customers and
users of the Romeoville Metra Station parking lot, the village has contracted
with a provider of electronic parking payment services to permit payment of
parking fees on an online basis. By using these electronic payment services,
customers and users consent to the imposition of service fees in connection
therewith, in such amounts as may be compliant with and required by the
village’s then-current contract with its electronic parking payment services
provider.
(Prior Code, § 74.13) (Ord. 18-1457, passed 1-17-2018; Ord. 18-1504, passed 9-
19-2018; Ord. 23-1890, passed 12-20-2023)
§ 73.16 REGULATION OF UNSCHEDULED BUS STOPS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPLICATION. A request for approval to make a bus stop in the village on
a form to be provided by the Chief of Police that meets all the requirements of
this section.
      APPROVAL. A written notice signed by the Chief of Police which approves
an application submitted in conformance with this section.
      BUS. Any type of motor vehicle that is designed to carry, or is actually
carrying, more than ten individuals.
      CHIEF. The Chief of Police or the Chief’s designee.
      REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE. Bus service that operates trips involving
the dropping off of passengers in the village on a predictable and recurring
basis, following a schedule that is published in advance and available to the
general public, and provides service in exchange for paying a fare.
      UNSCHEDULED BUS STOP. Any location in the village where individuals are
dropped off by a bus that originated from a location outside of the county that
is not providing regularly scheduled service and not operating pursuant to the
written approval of the Chief pursuant to this section.
   (B)   No unscheduled bus stops. It shall be a violation of this section for
the owner, operator or driver of any bus to make an unscheduled bus stop for
the purpose of dropping off passengers in the village, or to permit any bus to
make an unscheduled bus stop for the purpose of dropping off passengers in the
village.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   The owner, operator or driver of any bus that is not providing
regularly scheduled service that desires to make a bus stop to drop off
passengers in the village shall file an application with the Chief using a form
to be prepared by the Chief. The completed application and all required
information shall be submitted to the Chief at least five calendar days prior
to the date of the proposed drop-off date.
      (2)   The application shall include and provide the following
information:
         (a)   The full name, full address and telephone numbers of the owner,
operator and driver of the bus. The mobile phone number of the driver of the
bus shall also be provided;
         (b)   The full name, full address, mobile and landline telephone
numbers of the entity or individuals that has either directed, paid for or
financed the transport of persons to be dropped off in the village by the bus;
         (c)   The full name of all persons that are proposed to be dropped off
in the village along with copies of IDs for said person to the extent such IDs
exist or are in the possession of the passengers;
         (d)   The name, address or location in the village at which the bus
proposes to drop off passengers;
         (e)   The date and time at which the bus passengers will be dropped
off in the village which shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on a Monday
through Friday, excluding any holidays;
         (f)   The name and address of all locations from which the passengers
are being picked up for transport to the village;
         (g)   The full name, full address, mobile and landline telephone
numbers of all entities or individuals that shall be present in the village to
meet the bus and receive the passengers when they are dropped off; and
         (h)   A detailed plan identifying how the individuals being dropped
off will be cared for, housed and fed, either temporarily or permanently, upon
being dropped off in the village, including how the expenses of such care,
housing and feeding are to be defrayed. The plan shall include the full names,
full addresses and landline and mobile telephone numbers of all persons that
will be present at the date and time of the drop-off and responsible for the
care, housing and feeding of the passengers. The plan shall be signed by the
entity that agrees to be responsible for the care of the individuals and at
least one additional individual that will be present to receive the passengers
and responsible for their care. The entity and the individual that will present
to receive the passengers and be responsible for their care shall each by their
signature certify that they will be responsible for providing the actions
detailed in the plan.
   (D)   Application approval. Upon receipt of an application pursuant to this
section, the Chief shall review same and undertake a review of the information
contained in the application to verify its truth, accuracy, completeness and
authenticity. If the application is not complete, the Chief shall, in writing,
advise the applicant of the additional items needed to complete the
application. If, within four calendar days after receiving a completed
application, the Chief, provided they have not received any information that
the application is false or untrue in any manner, shall inform the applicant
that the application is approved for the stated location. The Chief shall
further provide a telephone number to the applicant or driver to coordinate the
arrival of the bus in the village.
   (E)   Violations. It shall be a violation of this section for any individual
or entity to violate any of the terms of this section and/or engage in the
following actions:
      (1)   The submission of an application that is false or untrue in any
manner;
      (2)   The failure of any entity or individual that is responsible for the
care, housing or feeding of any passengers dropped off in the village to
implement or perform the detailed plan pursuant to the terms of an approved
application;
      (3)   Making an unscheduled bus stop in the village; and
      (4)   Initiating any bus transportation to the village requires the
approval of the bus stop location without submitting an application or failing
to obtain approval of an application as required by this section
   (F)   Towing, seizure and impoundment of bus. Whenever a police officer has
reason to believe that a violation of §§
73.14,
73.15 or this section has occurred involving a bus, the bus at issue is subject
to towing, seizure and impoundment in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 78 pertaining thereto, in addition to any other monetary penalty or
other remedy that may be pursued. Violations of §§
73.14,
73.15 or this section shall be deemed incorporated by reference into
Appendix A of Chapter 78 as if fully set forth therein. The police officer
shall, in the exercise of discretion, provide for the towing of the bus to a
facility approved by the Police Department and the impoundment of the bus at
such facility. Upon the towing of a bus, the police officer shall notify or
make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner of record, lessee, person
claiming to be the owner or lessee or any person who is found to be in control
of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation of the fact of the seizure
and of the vehicle owner’s right to request an administrative hearing.
   (G)   Administrative tow/impound hearing. Administrative hearings to contest
the tows of unlawful vehicles shall be available and held in accordance with
the provisions of §
78.37, and administrative hearings to contest the impoundment of buses
impounded under §§
73.14,
73.15 or this section shall be held in accordance with the provisions of §
78.38.
(Ord. 24-1893, passed 1-17-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
**** SNOW EMERGENCIES ****
§ 73.30 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President finds that falling snow, sleet or freezing
rain will create a condition which makes it necessary that the parking of motor
vehicles on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever they find on the
basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather
conditions so forecasted may create a condition making it necessary that such
parking be prohibited, they are authorized to announce the prohibition, to
become effective at a time specified by them. After the effective time of the
prohibition, no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain
parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing
rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Village President
has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is
to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency
route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The prohibition
of parking announced by the Village President under the authority of this
section shall remain in effect until they announce the termination of the snow
emergency, in part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.31 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President shall find that some or all of the conditions
which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, they are
authorized to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole,
effective immediately on announcement. If the announcement is made other than
between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 73.32 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Village
President. On such street or highway designated as a snow emergency route,
special signs shall be posted to this effect.
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Every person who violates any provision of this chapter and
who fails to pay a citation pursuant to §
73.11(B) shall, unless otherwise specified, be punished by a fine of no less
than $50 nor more than $200.
(Prior Code, § 74.99)
   (B)   Handicapped parking.
      (1)   Any person, firm or entity that violates the provisions of §
73.06(A) shall be fined no less than $250 nor more than $350, in addition to
any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of any motor vehicle
as authorized by law. It shall not be a defense to a charge under this section
that either the sign posted or the intended accessible parking place does not
comply with the technical requirements of 625 ILCS 5/11-301, State Department
of Transportation regulations or local ordinance if a reasonable person would
be made aware by sign or notice on or near the parking space that the place is
reserved for a person with disabilities.
      (2)   A person who violates §
73.06(B) and (C) shall be guilty of a violation of this code and pay a fine of
not more than $250.
(Prior Code, § 74.06)
   (C)   Unscheduled bus stops. Any person found guilty of violating,
disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with, or resisting or
opposing the enforcement of, any of the provisions of §
73.16, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of $1,000 for
each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed
each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit
any such violation to exist after notification thereof, and provided further
that for violations of division (B) above a separate and distinct offense shall
be regarded as committed with respect to each passenger on a bus making an
unscheduled bus stop on the village for the purpose of dropping off passengers.
The village, at its discretion, may enforce this section by:
      (1)   A quasi-criminal action seeking the payment of a monetary penalty
adjudicated under the village’s administrative adjudication system; or
      (2)   An action seeking monetary and injunctive relief filed in the
Circuit Court of the county or any other court having jurisdiction over the
violator.
(Ord. 772, passed 2-4-1981; Ord. 910, passed 4-3-1985; Ord. 2233-93, passed 7-
21-1993; Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996; Ord. 06-0381, passed 3-1-2006; Ord.
11-0911, passed 6-1-2011; Ord. 24-1893, passed 1-17-2024)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
74.001   Scope and effect of chapter
Lights and Lamps
   
74.015   When lighted lamps are required
   
74.016   Clearance, identification and side marker lamps
   
74.017   Lamps on parked vehicles
   
74.018   Lamps on other vehicles and equipment
   
74.019   Display of amber signal lamp required for slow-moving vehicles
   
74.020   Spot lamps and auxiliary driving lamps
   
74.021   Special lighting equipment on rural mail delivery vehicles
   
74.022   Special restrictions on lamps
   
74.023   Dimming of headlamps
   
74.024   Lamp or flag on projecting load
   
74.025   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
74.026   Additional lighting equipment permitted
   
74.027   Number of driving lamps required or permitted
   
74.028   Oscillating, rotating or flashing lights; when permitted
   
74.029   Operation of oscillating, rotating or flashing lights
Brakes
   
74.040   Brakes
   
74.041   Brake fluid
Tires
   
74.055   Restriction as to tire equipment
   
74.056   Sale or lease of siped or regrooved pneumatic tire
   
74.057   Sale or lease of retreaded or recapped pneumatic tire
   
74.058   Sale or lease of pneumatic tire without marking
   
74.059   Operating condition of pneumatic tires
Glass, Windshields and Mirrors
   
74.070   Safety glazing materials in motor vehicles
   
74.071   Mirrors
   
74.072   Windshields must be unobstructed and equipped with wipers
Other Equipment
   
74.085   Horns and warning devices
   
74.086   Mufflers; prevention of noise
   
74.087   Seat safety belts
   
74.088   Suspension system
   
74.089   Bumpers
   
74.090   Video devices
   
74.091   Headset receivers
   
74.092   Disposal of motor vehicles bearing police markings
   
74.093   Sound amplification systems in motor vehicles
Special Requirements for Second Division Vehicles
   
74.105   Tractors, traction engines and motor trucks
   
74.106   Certain vehicles to carry flares or other warning devices
   
74.107   Road oil vehicles; dripping on certain highways forbidden
   
74.108   Fire apparatus; safety belts
   
74.109   Overloaded school bus; liability insurance
   
74.110   Operator protective frames on tractor-mower combinations
   
74.111   Slow-moving vehicle emblem
   
74.112   Rear fender splash guards
Special Requirements for School Buses
   
74.125   Color
   
74.126   Identification
   
74.127   Stop signal arm
   
74.128   Other vehicles not to mimic school bus
   
74.129   Special lighting equipment
   
74.130   Identification when school bus used for other purpose
   
74.131   Seat belt for driver
   
74.132   Safety equipment
   
74.133   Restraining devices for passengers who are persons with disabilities
   
74.134   Amber three bar clearance light
Special Requirements for Religious Organization Buses
   
74.145   Color and markings
   
74.146   Special lighting equipment
 
   
74.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 74.001 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in 625 ILCS 5/12, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation of 625 ILCS 5/12, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail
to perform any act required under 625 ILCS 5/12.
   (B)   The provisions of 625 ILCS 5/12, with respect to equipment on
vehicles, shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road
rollers or farm tractors, or to farm wagon-type trailers having a fertilizer
spreader attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a gross weight of not
to exceed 36,000 pounds and used only for the transportation of bulk
fertilizer, or to farm wagon-type tank trailers of not to exceed 2,000 gallons
capacity, which are used during the liquid fertilizer season as field-storage
“nurse tanks,” supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and highways only
for bringing the fertilizer to a field applicator from a local source of supply
to the farm or the field or from one farm or field to another.
(625 ILCS 5/12-101) Penalty, see §
74.999
**** LIGHTS AND LAMPS ****
§ 74.015 WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS ARE REQUIRED.
   (A)   When operated upon any highway in this state, every motorcycle shall
at all times exhibit at least one lighted lamp, showing a white light visible
for at least 500 feet in the direction the motorcycle is proceeding. However,
in lieu of a lighted lamp, a motorcycle may be equipped with and use a means of
modulating the upper beam of the head lamp between high and a lower brightness.
No such head lamp shall be modulated, except to otherwise comply with this
chapter, during times when lighted lamps are required for other motor vehicles.
   (B)   All other motor vehicles shall exhibit at least two lighted head
lamps, with at least one on each side of the front of the vehicle, showing
white lights or lights of a yellow or amber tint, during the period from one-
half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, at times when rain,
snow, fog or other atmospheric conditions require the use of windshield wipers,
and at any other times when, due to insufficient light or unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the highway are not clearly
discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet. Parking lamps may be used in addition
to but not in lieu of such head lamps. Every motor vehicle, trailer or
semitrailer shall also exhibit at least two lighted lamps, commonly known as
tail lamps, which shall be mounted on the left rear and right rear of the
vehicle so as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in the reverse
direction, except that a truck tractor or road tractor manufactured before
January 1, 1968, and all motorcycles need be equipped with only one such tail
lamp.
   (C)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light a rear registration plate when
required, and render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear.
Any tail lamp or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp or lamps for
illuminating a rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the driving lamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
   (D)   A person shall install only head lamps that satisfy United States
Department of Transportation regulations and show white light, including that
emitted by HID lamps, or light of a yellow or amber tint for use by a motor
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 75.05) Penalty, see §
74.999
Cross-reference:
   Motorcycle regulations generally, see
Chapter 77
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-201
§ 74.016 CLEARANCE, IDENTIFICATION AND SIDE MARKER LAMPS.
   (A)   Second division vehicles with a GVWR over 10,000 pounds, the length of
which together with any trailer or trailers in tow thereof, is more than 25
feet, or the width of which is more than 80 inches exclusive of mirrors,
bumpers and other required safety devices, while being operated on the highways
of the municipality during the period from sunset to sunrise, shall display on
the front of the vehicle two yellow or amber lights, one on each upper front
corner of the vehicle, which shall be plainly visible at a distance of at least
500 feet; also, on the rear thereof in a horizontal line, three red lights
plainly visible at a distance of not less than 500 feet; also, on the front of
the body of that vehicle near the lower left-hand corner, one yellow or amber
tinted reflector and near the lower right-hand corner, one yellow or amber
tinted reflector; also, red reflectors on the rear of the body of that vehicle,
not more than 12 inches from the lower left and right-hand corners.
   (B)   All motor vehicles of the second division more than 20 feet long, and
all trailers and semitrailers, except trailers and semitrailers having a gross
weight of 3,000 pounds or less, including the weight of the trailer and maximum
load, while being operated on the highways of this village during the period
from sunset to sunrise, shall display on each side of the vehicle at
approximately the points of the length of the same, at a height not exceeding
five feet above the surface of the road, and reflecting on a line approximately
the points of the length of the same, at a height not exceeding five feet above
the surface of the road and reflecting on a line approximately at right angles
to the center line of the vehicle, two amber tinted reflectors.
   (C)   All new motor vehicles of the second division more than 20 feet long,
and all trailers and semitrailers except trailers and semitrailers having a
gross weight of 3,000 pounds or less, including the weight of the trailer and
maximum load, sold as new in this village, while being operated on the highways
of this village during the period from sunset to sunrise, shall display on each
side of the vehicle, not more than 12 inches from the front, one amber tinted
reflector, and not more than 12 inches from the rear, one red reflector at a
height not exceeding five feet above the surface of the road, and reflecting on
a line approximately at right angles to the center line of the vehicle,
approved by the Department.
   (D)   Every trailer and semitrailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
less, including the weight of the trailer and maximum load, towed either by a
motor vehicle of the first division or a motor vehicle of the second division,
shall be equipped with two red reflectors, which will be visible when hit by
headlight beams 300 feet away at night, on the rear of the body of the trailer,
not more than 12 inches from the lower left-hand and lower right-hand corners.
   (E)   Every vehicle designated in (A) through (D) above that is manufactured
after December 31, 1973 shall, at the places and times specified in those
divisions, display reflectors and clearance, identification and side marker
lamps in conformance with the specifications prescribed by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 75.06) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-202
§ 74.017 LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   During the period from sunset to sunrise, every motorcycle or motor
vehicle which is standing on any highway shall display a parking light on the
front and at the rear of the same. However, the Board of Trustees may, by
ordinance, under rules and regulations, it may prescribe, designate any part or
parts of any street, or other highway under its jurisdiction, as parking places
in which motorcycles and motor vehicles may be parked without having their
lamps lighted, as otherwise required by this section.
   (B)   Any lighted driving lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Prior Code, § 75.07) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-203
§ 74.018 LAMPS ON OTHER VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every vehicle, including animal-drawn vehicles, referred to in §
74.001, not specifically required by the provisions of this chapter to be
equipped with lamps or other lighted devices, shall, at all times specified in
§
74.015, be equipped with at least two lamps on the power or towing unit
displaying a white light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the front of the vehicle, and shall also be equipped with two lamps each
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear of the vehicle.
      (1)   Where the towed unit or any load thereon partially or totally
obscures the two lamps displaying red light to the rear of the towing unit, the
rearmost towed unit shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light
visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of such towed
unit which are positioned in such a manner as to not obstruct the visibility of
the red light to any vehicle operator approaching from the rear of such vehicle
or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   Where the two lamps displaying red light are not obscured by the
towed unit or its load, then either towing unit or towed unit, or both, may be
equipped with the two lamps displaying red light as required.
   (B)   The preceding division does not apply to antique vehicles, custom
vehicles or street rods. An antique vehicle shall be equipped with lamps of the
same type originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in
working order.
(Prior Code, § 75.08) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-205
§ 74.019 DISPLAY OF AMBER SIGNAL LAMP REQUIRED FOR SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   Every animal-drawn vehicle, farm tractor, implement of husbandry and special
mobile equipment, except when used for road construction or maintenance within
the limits of a construction or maintenance project where traffic-control
devices are used in compliance with the applicable provisions of the manual and
specifications adopted under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, when operated on a highway
during a time when lighted lamps are required by §
74.015, shall display to the rear at least one flashing amber signal lamp
mounted as high as practicable and of sufficient intensity to be visible for a
distance of at least 500 feet in normal sunlight; however, only the rearmost
vehicle of a combination of vehicles coupled together need display the lamp.
The flashing amber signal lamp may be operated lighted during daylight hours
when other lamps are not required to be lighted when vehicles authorized in
this section are operated on a highway. Implements of husbandry manufactured on
or after January 1, 2003, and operated on public roads between sunset and
sunrise shall display markings and lighting that meet or exceed the Design,
Performance and Mounting Specifications adopted by the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers and published by that body as ASAE S279.11 APR01 or the
then current successor publication thereto.
(Prior Code, § 75.09) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-205.1
§ 74.020 SPOT LAMPS AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp,
and every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another
vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed
to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle, nor
more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three auxiliary
driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more
than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands.
   (C)   The restrictions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles or equipment used for snow and ice removal operations if
owned or operated by or for any governmental body.
   (D)   The minimum and maximum height restrictions prescribed in division (B)
above shall not apply to privately-owned motor vehicles on which a snow plow is
mounted, while in transit between or during snow and ice removal operations.
This exemption shall apply only during the period from November 15 through
April 1, and only when the snow plow blade, commonly referred to as a
“moldboard,” is properly and securely affixed to the front of the motor
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 75.10) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-207
§ 74.021 SPECIAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT ON RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLES.
   If a rural mail delivery vehicle is equipped with special signal lamps,
there shall be displayed to the front two alternately flashing amber lamps
located at the same level and mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable, and to the rear, two alternately flashing amber lamps located at
the same level and mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable. The lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to be visible 500 feet
in normal sunlight, and shall be controlled so that they will only be used to
indicate to other traffic that a stop is being made for the purpose of picking
up or delivering United States Mail.
(Prior Code, § 75.11) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-214
§ 74.022 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LAMPS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any
highway with any lamp or device on the vehicle or equipment displaying a red
light visible from directly in front of the vehicle or equipment except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Subject to the restrictions of this chapter, flashing lights are
prohibited on motor vehicles except as expressly authorized in this chapter or
as a means for indicating a right or left turn, lane change or a maneuver of a
vehicle from a direct course of travel as provided in 625 ILCS 5/12-208 or the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care as expressly
provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-804 or 5/12-215.
   (C)   Unless otherwise expressly authorized by this code, all other lighting
or combination of lighting on any vehicle shall be prohibited.
   (D)   No person shall drive or move any motor vehicle or equipment upon any
highway with any lighting or combination of lighting with a smoked or tinted
lens or cover.
(Prior Code, § 75.12) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-212
§ 74.023 DIMMING OF HEADLAMPS.
   (A)   Whenever the driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving
headlamp, driving headlamps, auxiliary driving lamp or auxiliary driving lamps
is within 500 feet of another vehicle approaching from the opposite direction,
the driver shall dim or drop the headlamp or headlamps and shall extinguish all
auxiliary driving lamps.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving headlamp,
headlamps, auxiliary driving lamp or auxiliary driving lamps shall dim or drop
the headlamp or headlamps and shall extinguish all auxiliary driving lamps when
there is another vehicle traveling in the same direction less than 300 feet to
the front of them.
   (C)   No vehicle shall have the lighting system modified to allow more than
two electric head lamps to be lighted while operating in the dimmed or dropped
position.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of two lamps mounted on
the frontmost of the motor vehicle that emit white or amber light without
glare, installed by the manufacturer at the original point of assembly when
used in conjunction with head lamps. All lamps, including auxiliary driving
lamps, shall be adjusted and so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected
into the eyes of drivers of oncoming vehicles. As used in this division (D),
AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMP means a lamp, whether temporarily or permanently
installed on a vehicle, not originally installed by the manufacturer at the
original point of assembly.
(625 ILCS 5/12-210) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.024 LAMP OR FLAG ON PROJECTING LOAD.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more
beyond the bed or body of the vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
74.015, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this
section shall be in addition to the red light required upon every vehicle. At
any other time, there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of the load a
red flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(Prior Code, § 75.14) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-204
§ 74.025 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every vehicle, other than an antique vehicle displaying an
antique plate or an expanded-use antique vehicle displaying expanded-use
antique vehicle plates, operated in this village shall be equipped with a stop
lamp or lamps on the rear of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber
light visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the rear in normal
sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot)
brake, and which may, but need not be, incorporated with other rear lamps.
During times when lighted lamps are not required, an antique vehicle or an
expanded-use antique vehicle may be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the
rear of the vehicle of the same type originally installed by the manufacturer
as original equipment and in working order. However, at all other times, except
as provided in division (A)(2) below, the antique vehicle or expanded-use
antique vehicle must be equipped with stop lamps meeting the requirements of
this section.
      (2)   A motorcycle or an antique vehicle or an expanded-use antique
vehicle, including an antique motorcycle, may display a blue light or lights of
up to one-inch in diameter as part of the vehicle’s rear stop lamp or lamps.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle, other than an antique vehicle displaying an
antique plate or an expanded-use antique vehicle displaying expanded-use
antique vehicle plates, shall be equipped with an electric turn signal device
which shall indicate the intention of the driver to turn to the right or to the
left, change lanes, turn a vehicle or otherwise turn or maneuver a vehicle from
a direct course of travel in the form of flashing lights located at and showing
to the front and rear of the vehicle on the side of the vehicle toward which
the turn is to be made. The lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the
same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and when signaling,
shall emit a white or amber light, or any shade of light between white and
amber. The lamps showing to the rear shall be mounted on the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable, and when signaling, shall emit a red or
amber light. An antique vehicle or expanded-use antique vehicle shall be
equipped with a turn signal device of the same type originally installed by the
manufacturer as original equipment and in working order.
   (C)   Every trailer and semitrailer shall be equipped with an electric turn
signal device which indicates the intention of the driver in the power unit to
turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing red or amber lights
located at the rear of the vehicle on the side toward which the turn is to be
made, and mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable.
   (D)   Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of not less than 300
feet in normal sunlight.
   (E)   Motorcycles and motor-driven cycles need not be equipped with electric
turn signals. Antique vehicles and expanded-use antique vehicles need not be
equipped with turn signals unless they were installed by the manufacturer as
original equipment.
   (F)   Motorcycles and motor-driven cycles may be equipped with a stop lamp
or lamps on the rear of the vehicle that display a red or amber light, visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the rear in normal sunlight, that
flashes and becomes steady only when the brake is actuated.
(Prior Code, § 75.15) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-208
§ 74.026 ADDITIONAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT PERMITTED.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running board
courtesy lamp on each side, which shall emit a white or amber light without
glare.
   (C)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with one or more backup lamps,
either separately or in combination with other lamps which shall emit a white
or amber light without glare; but any backup lamp or lamps shall not be lighted
when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
(Prior Code, § 75.16) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-209
§ 74.027 NUMBER OF DRIVING LAMPS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   (A)   At all times specified in §
74.015, at least two lighted driving lamps shall be displayed, one on each side
of the front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, except when the
vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked
vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with driving lamps as herein
required is also equipped with any auxiliary driving lamps or a spot lamp, or
any other lamp on the front thereof projecting a beam of an intensity greater
than 300 candlepower, not more than a total of four of these lamps on the front
of a vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a highway.
(Prior Code, § 75.17) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-211
§ 74.028 OSCILLATING, ROTATING, OR FLASHING LIGHTS; WHEN PERMITTED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this title:
   (A)   The use of red or white oscillating, rotating or flashing lights,
whether lighted or unlighted, is prohibited except on:
      (1)   Law enforcement vehicles of state, federal or local authorities;
      (2)   (a)   A vehicle operated by a police officer or county coroner, and
designated or authorized by local authorities, in writing, as a law enforcement
vehicle; however, such designation or authorization must be carried in the
vehicle; and
         (b)   A vehicle operated by a fire chief, deputy fire chief, assistant
fire chief or chief of a mutual aid box alarm system who has completed an
emergency vehicle operation training course approved by the Office of the State
Fire Marshal and designated or authorized by local authorities, fire
departments, fire protection districts or mutual aid box alarm systems, in
writing, as a fire department, fire protection district, township fire
department or mutual aid box alarm system vehicle; however, the designation or
authorization must be carried in the vehicle, and the lights may be visible or
activated only when responding to a bona fide emergency.
      (3)   Vehicles of the Village Fire Department and state or federal
firefighting vehicles of the state or federal government;
      (4)   (a)   Vehicles which are designed and used exclusively as
ambulances or rescue vehicles; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted
except when responding to an emergency call for and while actually conveying
the sick or injured;
         (b)   Vehicles which are occasionally used as rescue vehicles that
have been authorized for use as rescue vehicles by a volunteer EMS provider;
provided that the operator of the vehicle has successfully completed an
emergency vehicle operation training course recognized by the Department of
Public Health; furthermore, the lights shall not be lighted except when
responding to an emergency call for the sick or injured;
      (5)   Tow trucks licensed in a state that requires such lights;
furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted on any such tow truck while the
tow truck is operating in the state;
      (6)   Vehicles of the State Emergency Management Agency, vehicles of the
Office of the State Fire Marshal, vehicles of the State Department of Public
Health, vehicles of the State Department of Corrections and vehicles of the
State Department of Juvenile Justice;
      (7)   Vehicles operated by a local or county emergency management
services agency as defined in the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act;
      (8)   School buses operating alternately flashing head lamps as permitted
under 625 ILCS 5/12-805;
      (9)   Vehicles that are equipped and used exclusively as organ transplant
vehicles when used in combination with blue oscillating, rotating or flashing
lights; furthermore, these lights shall be lighted only when the transportation
is declared an emergency by a member of the transplant team or a representative
of the organ procurement organization;
      (10)   Vehicles of the State Department of Natural Resources that are
used for mine rescue and explosives emergency response;
      (11)   Vehicles of the State Department of Transportation identified as
emergency traffic patrol; the lights shall not be lighted except when
responding to an emergency call or when parked or stationary while engaged in
motor vehicle assistance or at the scene of the emergency; and
      (12)   Vehicles of the State Toll Highway Authority with a gross vehicle
weight rating of 9,000 pounds or more and those identified as highway emergency
lane patrol; the lights shall not be lighted except when responding to an
emergency call or when parked or stationary while engaged in motor vehicle
assistance or at the scene of the emergency.
   (B)   The use of amber oscillating, rotating or flashing lights, whether
lighted or unlighted, is prohibited except on:
      (1)   Second division vehicles designed and used for towing or hoisting
vehicles; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except as required in
this division (B); such lights shall be lighted when such vehicles are actually
being used at the scene of a crash or disablement; if the towing vehicle is
equipped with a flat bed that supports all wheels of the vehicle being
transported, the lights shall not be lighted while the vehicle is engaged in
towing on a highway; if the towing vehicle is not equipped with a flat bed that
supports all wheels of a vehicle being transported, the lights shall be lighted
while the towing vehicle is engaged in towing on a highway during all times
when the use of headlights is required under 625 ILCS 5/12-201; in addition,
these vehicles may use white oscillating, rotating or flashing lights in
combination with amber oscillating, rotating or flashing lights as provided in
this division (B);
      (2)   Motor vehicles or equipment of the state, the State Toll Highway
Authority, local authorities and contractors; furthermore, such lights shall
not be lighted except while the vehicles are engaged in maintenance or
construction operations within the limits of construction projects;
      (3)   Vehicles or equipment used by engineering or survey crews;
furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except while the vehicles are
actually engaged in work on a highway;
      (4)   Vehicles of public utilities, municipalities or other construction,
maintenance or automotive service vehicles, except that such lights shall be
lighted only as a means for indicating the presence of a vehicular traffic
hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing while those
vehicles are engaged in maintenance, service or construction on a highway;
      (5)   Oversized vehicle or load; however, such lights shall only be
lighted when moving under permit issued by the Department under 625 ILCS 5/15-
301;
      (6)   (a)   The front and rear of motorized equipment owned and operated
by the state or any political subdivision thereof, which is designed and used
for removal of snow and ice from highways; and
         (b)   The front and rear of motorized equipment or vehicles that (i)
are not owned by the state or any political subdivision of the state, (ii) are
designed and used for removal of snow and ice from highways and parking lots
and (iii) are equipped with a snow plow that is 12 feet in width; these lights
may not be lighted except when the motorized equipment or vehicle is actually
being used for those purposes on behalf of a unit of government;
      (7)   Fleet safety vehicles registered in another state; furthermore,
these lights shall not be lighted except as provided in §
74.022;
      (8)   Such other vehicles as may be authorized by local authorities;
      (9)   (a)   Law enforcement vehicles of state or local authorities, when
used in combination with red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights; and
         (b)   Propane delivery trucks.
      (10)   (a)   Vehicles used for collecting or delivering mail for the
United States Postal Service; provided that such lights shall not be lighted
except when such vehicles are actually being used for those purposes;
         (b)   Vehicles of the Office of the State Fire Marshal; provided that
such lights shall not be lighted except for when such vehicles are engaged in
work for the Office of the State Fire Marshal;
      (11)   Any vehicle displaying a slow-moving vehicle emblem as provided in
§
74.019;
      (12)   All trucks equipped with self-compactors or roll-off hoists and
roll-on containers for garbage, recycling or refuse hauling. Such lights shall
not be lighted except when such vehicles are actually being used for such
purposes;
      (13)   Vehicles used by a security company, alarm responder, control
agency or the State Department of Corrections;
      (14)   Security vehicles of the Department of Human Services; however,
the lights shall not be lighted except when being used for security related
purposes under the direction of the superintendent of the facility where the
vehicle is located; and
      (15)   Vehicles of union representatives, except that the lights shall be
lighted only while the vehicle is within the limits of a construction project.
   (C)   The use of blue oscillating, rotating or flashing lights, whether
lighted or unlighted, is prohibited except on:
      (1)   (a)   Rescue squad vehicles not owned by a fire department or fire
protection district and vehicles owned or operated by a voluntary firefighter,
paid firefighter, part-paid firefighter, call firefighter, a member of a board
of trustees of a fire protection district, paid or unpaid member of a rescue
squad, paid or unpaid member of a voluntary ambulance unit or paid or unpaid
members of a local or county emergency management services agency as defined in
the State Emergency Management Agency Act, designated or authorized by local
authorities, in writing, and carrying that designation or authorization in the
vehicle.
         (b)   However, such lights are not to be lighted except when
responding to a bona fide emergency or when parked or stationary at the scene
of a fire, rescue call, ambulance call or motor vehicle crash.
         (c)   Any person using these lights in accordance with this division
(C)(1) must carry on their person an identification card or letter identifying
the bona fide member of a fire department, fire protection district, rescue
squad, ambulance unit or emergency management services agency that owns or
operates that vehicle. The card or letter must include:
            1.   The name of the fire department, fire protection district,
rescue squad, ambulance unit or emergency management services agency;
            2.   The member’s position within the fire department, fire
protection district, rescue squad, ambulance unit or emergency management
services agency;
            3.   The member’s term of service; and
            4.   The name of a person within the fire department, fire
protection district, rescue squad, ambulance unit or emergency management
services agency to contact to verify the information provided.
      (2)   Police Department vehicles in cities having a population of 500,000
or more inhabitants;
      (3)   Law enforcement vehicles of state or local authorities, when used
in combination with red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights;
      (4)   Vehicles of local fire departments and state or federal
firefighting vehicles when used in combination with red oscillating, rotating
or flashing lights;
      (5)   Vehicles which are designed and used exclusively as ambulances or
rescue vehicles when used in combination with red oscillating, rotating or
flashing lights; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except when
responding to an emergency call;
      (6)   Vehicles that are equipped and used exclusively as organ transport
vehicles when used in combination with red oscillating, rotating or flashing
lights; furthermore, these lights shall only be lighted when the transportation
is declared an emergency by a member of the transplant team or a representative
of the organ procurement organization;
      (7)   Vehicles of the State Emergency Management Agency, vehicles of the
Office of the State Fire Marshal, vehicles of the State Department of Public
Health, vehicles of the State Department of Corrections and vehicles of the
State Department of Juvenile Justice, when used in combination with red
oscillating, rotating or flashing lights;
      (8)   Vehicles operated by a local or county emergency management
services agency, as defined in the State Emergency Management Agency Act, when
used in combination with red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights; and
      (9)   Vehicles of the State Department of Natural Resources that are used
for mine rescue and explosives emergency response, when used in combination
with red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to the blue oscillating, rotating or flashing lights
permitted under this division (C), and notwithstanding division (A) above, a
vehicle operated by a voluntary firefighter, a voluntary member of a rescue
squad or a member of a voluntary ambulance unit may be equipped with flashing
white headlights and blue grill lights, which may be used only in responding to
an emergency call or when parked or stationary at the scene of a fire, rescue
call, ambulance call or motor vehicle crash.
      (2)   In addition to the blue oscillating, rotating, or flashing lights
permitted under this division (C), and notwithstanding division (A) above, a
vehicle operated by a paid or unpaid member of a local or county emergency
management services agency, as defined in the State Emergency Management Agency
Act, may be equipped with white oscillating, rotating or flashing lights to be
used in combination with blue oscillating, rotating or flashing lights, if
authorization by local authorities is in writing and carried in the vehicle.
   (D)   (1)   The use of a combination of amber and white oscillating,
rotating or flashing lights, whether lighted or unlighted, is prohibited except
on second division vehicles designed and used for towing or hoisting vehicles
or motor vehicles or equipment of the state, local authorities, contractors and
union representatives; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted on second
division vehicles designed and used for towing or hoisting vehicles or vehicles
of the state, local authorities and contractors except while such vehicles are
engaged in a tow operation, highway maintenance or construction operations
within the limits of highway construction projects, and shall not be lighted on
the vehicles of union representatives except when those vehicles are within the
limits of a construction project.
      (2)   The use of green oscillating, flashing or rotating lights, whether
lighted or unlighted, is prohibited except on:
         (a)   Second division vehicles designed and used for towing or
hoisting vehicles when the lights on those vehicles are used in combination
with amber or amber and white oscillating, flashing or rotating lights;
furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except when such vehicles are
actually being used at the scene of a crash or disablement;
         (b)   Motor vehicles or equipment of the state when the lights on
those vehicles or equipment are used in combination with amber or amber and
white oscillating, flashing or rotating lights; furthermore, such lights shall
not be lighted except while such vehicles or equipment are engaged in
maintenance operations, snow and ice removal operations or performing traffic
control and protection duties while at an emergency scene;
         (c)   Motor vehicles of the Department of Transportation identified as
Emergency Traffic Patrol when the lights on those vehicles are used in
combination with red and white oscillating, flashing or rotating lights when
responding to an emergency call or when parked or stationary while engaged in
motor vehicle assistance or at an emergency scene;
         (d)   Motor vehicles of the State Toll Highway Authority when the
lights on those vehicles are used in combination with amber oscillating,
flashing or rotating lights; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted
except while such vehicles are engaged in maintenance operations, snow and ice
removal operations or performing traffic control and protection duties while at
an emergency scene;
         (e)   Motor vehicles of the State Toll Highway Authority with a gross
vehicle weight rating of 9,000 pounds or more and those identified as Highway
Emergency Lane Patrol when the lights on those vehicles are used in combination
with red and white oscillating, flashing or rotating lights when responding to
an emergency call or when parked or stationary while engaged in motor vehicle
assistance or at the scene of the emergency;
         (f)   Motor vehicles or equipment of local authority or municipalities
which perform highway maintenance operations, when the lights on those vehicles
are used in combination with amber or amber and white oscillating, flashing or
rotating lights; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except while
such vehicles are engaged in the maintenance operations, snow and ice removal
operations or performing traffic control and protection duties while at an
emergency scene;
         (g)   Fire department vehicles of local fire departments and state or
federal firefighting vehicles when the lights on those vehicles are used in
combination with red, or red and white, or red and blue, oscillating, rotating
or flashing lights;
         (h)   Vehicles used by a security company when the lights on those
vehicles are used in combination with amber oscillating, flashing or rotating
lights; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except when the vehicle
is being operated upon the property or location where the security company is
employed to perform security or crime prevention duties; and
         (i)   Ambulances or rescue vehicles operating in counties with
populations of less than 2,000,000.
      (3) Fire department vehicles of local fire departments and state or
federal firefighting vehicles, police vehicles of state, federal or local
authorities and vehicles designated by local or state authority, while parked
at an emergency scene, may use a steady-on illumination or steady-burn, or
flashing green beacon or beacons if such steady-on, steady-burn or flashing
beacon is used to indicate an emergency operations command post or incident
command location.
   (E)   All oscillating, rotating or flashing lights referred to in this
section shall be of sufficient intensity, when illuminated, to be visible at
500 feet in normal sunlight.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a manufacturer of oscillating,
rotating or flashing lights or their representative or authorized vendor from
temporarily mounting such lights on a vehicle for demonstration purposes only.
If the lights are not covered while the vehicle is operated upon a highway, the
vehicle shall display signage indicating that the vehicle is out of service or
not an emergency vehicle. The signage shall be displayed on all sides of the
vehicle in letters at least two inches tall and one-half inch wide. A vehicle
authorized to have oscillating, rotating or flashing lights mounted for
demonstration purposes may not activate the lights while the vehicle is
operated upon a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/12-215) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.029 OPERATION OF OSCILLATING, ROTATING OR FLASHING LIGHTS.
   Oscillating, rotating or flashing lights located on or within police
vehicles shall be lighted whenever a police officer is in pursuit of a violator
of a traffic law or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 75.19) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-216
**** BRAKES ****
§ 74.040 BRAKES.
   (A)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motor-driven cycle, an antique
vehicle displaying an antique plate and an expanded-use antique vehicle
displaying expanded-use antique vehicle plates, when operated upon a highway,
shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop
and hold the vehicle, including two separate means of applying the brakes, each
of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least one wheel on
a motorcycle, and at least two wheels on all other first division and second
division vehicles. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one part
of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without brakes.
      (2)   Every motor-driven cycle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with at least one brake, which may be operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every antique vehicle shall be equipped with the brakes of the same
type originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in
working order.
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b) below, every trailer
or semitrailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or more, when operated upon a
highway must be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of, to
stop and to hold the vehicle, and designed so as to be operable by the driver
of the towing vehicle from its cab. The brakes must be so designed and
connected that in case of an accidental breakaway of a towed vehicle 5,000
pounds or more, the brakes are automatically applied.
         (b)   Every boat trailer of a gross weight of over 3,000 pounds, when
operated upon a highway, must be equipped with brakes adequate to control the
movement of, to stop and to hold that boat trailer. The brakes must be designed
to ensure that, in case of an accidental breakaway of a towed boat trailer over
5,000 pounds, the brakes are automatically applied.
      (5)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, pole trailer or semitrailer, sold in
this village or operated upon the highways, shall be equipped with service
brakes upon all wheels of every such vehicle, except any motor-driven cycle.
However, any trailer, pole trailer or semitrailer of less than 3,000 pounds
gross weight need not be equipped with brakes, and any trailer or semitrailer
with gross weight of 3,000 pounds but under 5,000 pounds need be equipped with
brakes on only one wheel on each side of the vehicle. Any motor vehicle and
truck tractor having three or more axles need not have brakes on the front
wheels; when the vehicle is equipped with at least two steerable axles, then
the wheels of one axle need not be equipped with brakes. However, a vehicle
that is more than 30 years of age, and which is driven on the highways only in
going to and returning from an antique auto show or for servicing or for a
demonstration need be equipped with two wheel brakes only.
   (B)   Performance ability of brakes.
      (1)   The service brakes upon any motor vehicle or combination of
vehicles operating on a level surface shall be adequate to stop the vehicle or
vehicles when traveling 20 mph within a distance of 30 feet when upon dry
asphalt or concrete pavement free from loose material.
      (2)   Under the conditions set forth in (B)(1) above, the hand brake
shall be adequate to stop the vehicle or vehicles, except any motorcycle,
within a distance of 55 feet, and the hand brake shall be adequate to hold the
vehicle or vehicles stationary on any grade upon which operated.
      (3)   Under the conditions, set forth in (B)(1) above, the service brakes
upon an antique vehicle or expanded-use antique vehicle shall be adequate to
stop the vehicle within a distance of 40 feet, and the hand brake adequate to
stop the vehicle within a distance of 55 feet.
      (4)   All braking distances specified in this section apply to all
vehicles mentioned, whether the vehicles are unloaded or are loaded to the
maximum capacity permitted under this chapter.
      (5)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order, and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
      (6)   Brake assembly requirements for mobile homes shall be the standards
required by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
adopted under Title VI of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 42
U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 75.25) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-301
§ 74.041 BRAKE FLUID.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale or distribute brake fluid for use on
motor vehicles for repair purposes unless the fluid conforms to specifications
prescribed by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 75.26) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-302
**** TIRES ****
§ 74.055 RESTRICTION AS TO TIRE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No metal-tired vehicle, including tractors, motor vehicles of the
second division, traction engines and other similar vehicles, shall be operated
over any improved highway of the municipality if the vehicle has on the
periphery of any of the road wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug
or any projection of metal or wood which projects radially beyond the tread or
traffic surface of the tire. This prohibition does not apply to pneumatic tires
with metal studs used on vehicles operated by rural letter carriers who are
employed or enjoy a contract with the United States Postal Service for the
purpose of delivering mail, if the vehicle is actually used for that purpose
during operations between November 15 of any year and April 1 of the following
year, or to motor vehicles displaying a disability license plate or a license
plate for veterans with disabilities whose owner resides in an unincorporated
area located upon a county or township highway or road and possesses a valid
driver’s license and operates the vehicle with such tires only during the
period heretofore described, or to tracked motor vehicles when that part of the
vehicle coming in contact with the road surface does not contain any
projections of any kind likely to injure the surface of the road. However,
tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles may be operated which have upon
their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other cleats arranged in a manner as to
be continuously in contact with the road surface; provided that the gross
weight upon the wheels per inch of width of the cleats in contact with the road
surface, when measured in the direction of the axle of the vehicle, does not
exceed 800 pounds.
   (B)   All motor vehicles and all other vehicles in tow thereof, or thereunto
attached, operating upon any roadway, shall have tires of rubber or some
material of equal resiliency. Solid tires shall be considered defective, and
shall not be permitted to be used, if the rubber or other material has been
worn or otherwise reduced to a thickness of less than three-fourths of an inch,
or if the tires have been so worn or otherwise damaged as to cause undue
vibration when the vehicle is in motion, or to cause undue concentration of the
wheel load on the surface of the road. The requirements of this section do not
apply to agricultural tractors or traction engines or to agricultural
machinery, including wagons being used for agricultural purposes in tow
thereof, or to road rollers or road building machinery operated at a speed not
in excess of ten mph. All motor vehicles of the second division, operating upon
any roadway, shall have pneumatic tires, unless exempted herein.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the use of tire
chains of reasonable proportion upon any vehicle when required for safety
because of snow, ice or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid.
(Prior Code, § 75.30) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-401
§ 74.056 SALE OR LEASE OF SIPED OR REGROOVED PNEUMATIC TIRE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, SIPED shall mean cut without removing
material, and REGROOVED shall mean the tread groove pattern is renewed, or a
new pattern generated, or both, without additional tread material being added.
   (B)   No person or organization shall sell or lease or offer for sale or
lease, for use on a highway, any pneumatic tire, either original tread or
retread, on which the tread is siped or regrooved to a depth equal to or deeper
than the molded groove depth, unless the tire was constructed or retreaded with
sufficient tread material and type of labels to permit such siping or
regrooving. Such labels and siping or regrooving shall be in compliance with
Title 49 C.F.R. pt. 569, and after siping or regrooving the tire shall conform
to that part.
(Prior Code, § 75.31) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-402
§ 74.057 SALE OR LEASE OF RETREADED OR RECAPPED PNEUMATIC TIRE.
   No person or organization shall sell or lease or offer for sale or lease,
for use on a highway, any pneumatic tire produced or rebuilt by a process in
which tread material is attached to a used tire, unless the tire, tread
material, labeling and certification, before and after processing, conform to
Title 49 C.F.R. pt. 571.117.
(Prior Code, § 75.32) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-403
§ 74.058 SALE OR LEASE OF PNEUMATIC TIRE WITHOUT MARKING.
   No person or organization shall sell or lease or offer for sale or lease,
for use on a highway, any pneumatic tire that does not bear the special marking
required by this section.
   (A)   Regrooved or siped tire. In addition to the identification, labeling
and certification required under §
74.056, either the word “regrooved” or the word “siped” shall be branded on
each side of a pneumatic tire on which the tread is either regrooved or siped,
as the case may be. In the case of a tire that is both regrooved and siped, the
word “regrooved” alone on each side shall suffice, although both words may
appear on each side. Each branding shall be conspicuous but shall be sized,
located and applied so as not to weaken or damage the tire or otherwise degrade
the performance of the tire or shorten its useful life.
   (B)   Retreaded tire. In addition to the labeling, identification,
certification and other marking required under §
74.057, the word “retreaded” shall be branded or molded into or onto each side
of a pneumatic tire that has been retreaded or “recapped.” Each molding or
branding shall be conspicuous but shall be sized, located and applied so as not
to weaken or damage the tire or otherwise degrade the performance of the tire
or shorten its useful life.
   (C)   New tire. The labeling, identification, certification and other
marking required by Title 49 C.F.R. § 571.109 shall appear on each new
pneumatic tire intended for use on a passenger car other than a multipurpose
passenger vehicle. The labeling, identification, certification and other
marking required by Title 49 C.F.R. § 571.119 shall appear on each new
pneumatic tire intended for use on either a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
other type of vehicle that is not a passenger car.
(Prior Code, § 75.33) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-404
§ 74.059 OPERATING CONDITION OF PNEUMATIC TIRES.
   (A)   Definition. The term SPARE TIRE as used in this section means any new,
used or specially constructed tire that is either carried or installed for
short-term emergency use.
   (B)   Promulgated rules. The Department of Transportation shall promulgate
rules concerning unsafe operating conditions of pneumatic tires. The rules
shall be enforced by police officers by visual inspection of tires, including
visual comparison with simple measuring scales or gauges. The rules shall
include precepts and standards for determining unsafe conditions, including the
determination of an effective depth of tread groove, and shall be based upon,
to the extent that it is reasonable and practical, all provisions set forth in
division (D) below.
   (C)   Use of unsafe tire.
      (1)   No person or organization shall place, drive or move or cause or
allow to be placed, driven or moved on a highway of this state any vehicle
equipped with one or more pneumatic tires deemed to be unsafe under a provision
of division (D) below or a rule promulgated under division (B) above.
      (2)   Any restriction stated in this division (C) shall not apply to:
         (a)   A tire on a damaged, disabled, abandoned or other unsafe or
unwanted vehicle being legally towed, pushed or otherwise transferred to a
repair, relocation, storage, salvage, junking or other collection site;
         (b)   A tire on a racing or other competitive vehicle being legally
moved or transported, not under its own power, to a lawful competition site or
to a bona fide testing site; or
         (c)   A spare tire either carried or in short-term emergency use for
only such distance or time as is reasonably necessary to accomplish the repair
or replacement of the damaged or unsafe tire for which the spare was
substituted.
   (D)   Criteria for unsafe pneumatic tires. A pneumatic tire shall be deemed
to be unsafe if it has:
      (1)   Any part of a ply or cord exposed;
      (2)   A tread or sidewall crack, cut, snag or other surface interruption
deep enough to expose a ply or cord;
      (3)   Any bulge, knot or separation;
      (4)   Tread wear indicators flush with the tread outer surface in any two
or more adjacent tread grooves at three locations approximately equally spaced
around the circumference of the tire;
      (5)   A depth of tread groove less than 2/32 of an inch or less than 1/32
of an inch if on a motorcycle or truckster, measured in any two or more
adjacent tread grooves at three locations approximately equally spaced around
the circumference of the tire, at least one of which, in the judgment of the
inspecting officer, is a location at which the tread is thinnest, providing
that any measurement over a tie bar, tread wear indicator, hump or fillet is
excluded;
      (6)   A depth of tread groove less than 4/32 of an inch at any one
location and the tire is mounted on the front wheel of a motor vehicle subject
to the provisions of 625 ILCS 5/18b-100 et seq.; provided that any measurement
over a tire bar, tread wear indicator, hump or fillet is excluded;
      (7)   A marking which indicates that the tire is not intended for use on
a public highway;
      (8)   Been regrooved or recut below the bottom of an original tread
groove, except in the case of a special regroovable tire that was manufactured
or retreaded with thick undertread, identified and regrooved in compliance with
the applicable federal standard in Title 49 C.F.R., and in compliance with each
applicable section of this chapter; or
      (9)   Other condition, marking or lack of marking that may be reasonably
demonstrated to identify the tire as unsuitable for highway use, including
inflation, load, speed or installation condition seriously incompatible with
the tire size, construction or other pertinent marking or feature.
   (E)   Sale, lease or installation of pneumatic tires.
      (1)   No person or organization shall sell, lease or offer for sale or
lease, or mount, install or cause or allow to be mounted or installed, for use
on a highway, any pneumatic tire deemed to be unsafe under division (D) above
or under a rule promulgated under division (B) above. Except as provided in
division (C) above, any person or organization offering a vehicle for sale or
lease shall, prior to its being placed, driven or moved on a highway, correct
any unsafe tire condition.
      (2)   No person or organization shall sell, lease or offer for sale or
lease, for highway use, any pneumatic tire or any vehicle equipped with a
pneumatic tire, which has a depth of tread groove less than 3/32 of an inch;
except a pneumatic tire on a motorcycle or truckster may have a depth of tire
groove of not less than 2/32 of an inch. Groove depth shall not be measured
where a tie bar, tread wear indicator, hump or fillet is located.
   (F)   Compliance and enforcement. Any police officer, upon reasonable cause
to believe that a person or organization has acted or is acting in violation of
any provision of this section, shall require the driver, owner or other
appropriate custodian to submit the tire or tires to an inspection. When so
required, the owner or other appropriate custodian shall allow the tire
inspection and the driver of a vehicle or combination of vehicles shall stop at
a designated location and allow the tire or tires to be inspected, or shall
move the vehicle or combination to a location that is reasonably convenient and
is suitable for the inspection.
(Prior Code, § 75.34) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-405
**** GLASS, WINDSHIELDS AND MIRRORS ****
§ 74.070 SAFETY GLAZING MATERIALS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle operated upon the highways of this state shall be
equipped with a front windshield which complies with those standards as
established pursuant to this section and 625 ILCS 5/12-503. This division shall
not apply to motor vehicles designed and used exclusively for off-highway use,
motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, motorized pedalcycles, nor to motor vehicles
registered as antique vehicles, expanded-use antique vehicles, custom vehicles
or street rods when the original design of the vehicles did not include front
windshields.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly sell any 1936 or later model motor vehicle
unless such vehicle is equipped with safety glazing material conforming to
specifications prescribed by the Department wherever glazing material is used
in doors, windows and windshields. These provisions apply to all motor vehicles
of the first and second division but with respect to trucks, including truck
tractors, the requirements as to safety glazing material apply to all glazing
material used in doors, windows and windshields in the drivers’ compartments of
such vehicles.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner or any other person knowingly to install
or cause to be installed in any motor vehicle any glazing material other than
safety glazing material conforming to the specifications prescribed by the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 75.40) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-501
§ 74.071 MIRRORS.
   Every motor vehicle, operated singly or when towing another vehicle, shall
be equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 75.41) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-502
§ 74.072 WINDSHIELDS MUST BE UNOBSTRUCTED AND EQUIPPED WITH WIPERS.
   (A)   Obstruction.
      (1)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle with any sign, poster, window
application, reflective material, nonreflective material or tinted film upon
the front windshield, except that a nonreflective tinted film may be used along
the uppermost portion of the windshield if such material does not extend more
than six inches down from the top of the windshield.
      (2)   No new or used motor vehicle dealer shall permit a driver to drive
a motor vehicle offered for sale or lease off the premises where the motor
vehicle is being offered for sale or lease, including when the driver is test
driving the vehicle, with signs, decals, paperwork or other material on the
front windshield or on the windows immediately adjacent to each side of the
driver that would obstruct the driver’s view in violation of division (A)(1)
above. For purposes of this division (A)(2), TEST DRIVING means when a driver,
with permission of the new or used vehicle dealer or employee of the new or
used vehicle dealer, drives a vehicle owned and held for sale or lease by a new
or used vehicle dealer that the driver is considering to purchase or lease.
      (3)   No window treatment or tinting shall be applied to the windows
immediately adjacent to each side of the driver, except:
         (a)   On vehicles where none of the windows to the rear of the
driver’s seat are treated in a manner that allows less than 30% light
transmittance, a nonreflective tinted film that allows at least 50% light
transmittance, with a 5% variance observed by any law enforcement official
metering the light transmittance, may be used on the vehicle windows
immediately adjacent to each side of the driver;
         (b)   On vehicles where none of the windows to the rear of the
driver’s seat are treated in a manner that allows less than 35% light
transmittance, a nonreflective tinted film that allows at least 35% light
transmittance, with a 5% variance observed by any law enforcement official
metering the light transmittance, may be used on the vehicle windows
immediately adjacent to each side of the driver; and
         (c)   On vehicles where a nonreflective smoked or tinted glass that
was originally installed by the manufacturer on the windows to the rear of the
driver’s seat, a nonreflective tint that allows at least 50% light
transmittance, with a 5% variance observed by a law enforcement official
metering the light transmittance, may be used on the vehicle windows
immediately adjacent to each side of the driver.
      (4)   No person shall install or repair any material prohibited by
division (A)(1) above.
         (a)   Nothing in this division shall prohibit a person from removing
or altering any material prohibited by division (A)(1) above to make a motor
vehicle comply with the requirements of this section.
         (b)   Nothing in this division shall prohibit a person from installing
window treatment for a person with a medical condition described in division
(E)(2) below. An installer who installs window treatment for a person with a
medical condition described in division (E)(2) below must obtain a copy of the
certified statement or letter written by a physician described in division (E)
(2) below from the person with the medical condition prior to installing the
window treatment. The copy of the certified statement or letter must be kept in
the installer’s permanent records.
   (B)   Decorative applications.
      (1)   On motor vehicles where window treatment has not been applied to
the windows immediately adjacent to each side of the driver, the use of a
perforated window screen or other decorative window application on windows to
the rear of the driver’s seat shall be allowed.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle with a window to the rear of the driver’s seat
treated in this manner shall be equipped with a side mirror on each side of the
motor vehicle which is in conformance with §
74.071.
   (C)   Suspended objects. No person shall drive a motor vehicle with any
objects placed or suspended between the driver and the front windshield, rear
window, side wings or side windows immediately adjacent to each side of the
driver which materially obstructs the driver’s view.
   (D)   Cleaning device. Every motor vehicle, except motorcycles, shall be
equipped with a device, controlled by the driver, for cleaning rain, snow,
moisture or other obstructions from the windshield; and no person shall drive a
motor vehicle with snow, ice, moisture or other material on any of the windows
or mirrors, which materially obstructs the driver’s clear view of the highway.
   (E)   Viewing impairment. No person shall drive a motor vehicle when the
windshield, side or rear windows are in such defective condition or repair as
to materially impair the driver’s view to the front, side or rear. A vehicle
equipped with a side mirror on each side of the vehicle which is in conformance
with §
74.071 will be deemed to be in compliance in the event the rear window of the
vehicle is materially obscured.
   (F)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Divisions (A) and (B) above shall not apply to those motor vehicles
properly registered in another state.
      (2)   Division (A) above shall also not apply to window treatment,
including, but not limited to, a window application, nonreflective material or
tinted film, applied or affixed to a motor vehicle for which distinctive
license plates or license plate stickers have been issued pursuant to 625 ILCS
5/3-412(k), and which:
         (a)   Is owned and operated by a person afflicted with or suffering
from a medical disease, including, but not limited to, systemic or discoid
lupus erythematosus, disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis, light
sensitivity as a result of a traumatic brain injury or albinism, which would
require that person to be shielded from the direct rays of the sun; or
         (b)   Is used in transporting a person when the person resides at the
same address as the registered owner of the vehicle and the person is afflicted
with or suffering from a medical disease which would require the person to be
shielded from the direct rays of the sun, including, but not limited to,
systemic or discoid lupus erythematosus, disseminated superficial actinic
porokeratosis, light sensitivity as a result of a traumatic brain injury or
albinism.
      (3)   The owner must obtain a certified statement or letter written by a
physician licensed to practice medicine in the state that such person owning
and operating or being transported in a motor vehicle is afflicted with or
suffers from such disease, including, but not limited to, systemic or discoid
lupus erythematosus, disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis, light
sensitivity as a result of a traumatic brain injury or albinism. However, no
exemption from the requirements of division (A)(3) above shall be granted for
any condition for which protection from the direct rays of the sun can be
adequately obtained by the use of sunglasses or other eye protective devices.
Such certification must be carried in the motor vehicle at all times. The
certification shall be legible and shall contain the date of issuance; the
name, address and signature of the attending physician; and the name, address
and medical condition of the person requiring exemption. The information on the
certificate for a window treatment must remain current and shall be renewed
every four years by the attending physician. The owner shall also submit a copy
of the certification to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State may
forward notice of certification to law enforcement agencies.
      (4)   Installers shall only install window treatment authorized by
divisions (F)(2), (F)(3) and (F)(4) above on motor vehicles for which
distinctive plates or license plate stickers have been issued pursuant to 625
ILCS 5/3-412(k). The distinctive license plates or plate sticker must be on the
motor vehicle at the time of window treatment installation.
   (G)   Division (A) above shall not apply to motor vehicle stickers or other
certificates issued by state or local authorities which are required to be
displayed upon motor vehicle windows to evidence compliance with requirements
concerning motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 75.42) (Ord. 2304-95, passed 1-18-1995) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-503
**** OTHER EQUIPMENT ****
§ 74.085 HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but no horn or
other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound or a
whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with their horn, but shall not
otherwise use the horn when upon a highway.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
division (B). Any authorized emergency vehicle, defined in §
70.01, or a vehicle operated by a fire chief, deputy fire chief, assistant fire
chief or the director or coordinator of a municipal or county emergency
services and disaster agency, may be equipped with a siren, whistle or bell
capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of
not less than 500 feet, but the siren, whistle or bell shall not be used except
when the vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call, or in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in either of
which events the driver of the vehicle shall sound the siren, whistle or bell
when necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of their approach.
(Prior Code, § 75.45) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-601
§ 74.086 MUFFLERS; PREVENTION OF NOISE.
   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the highways of the municipality
shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust system in
constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive or unusual
noise. No muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a cut-out, bypass or
similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle in
a manner which will amplify or increase the noise of the vehicle above that
emitted by the muffler originally installed in the vehicle, and the original
muffler shall comply with all the requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 75.46) Penalty, see
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-602
§ 74.087 SEAT SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   1965 or later model vehicles. No person shall sell any 1965 or later
model motor vehicle of the first division unless the front seat of such motor
vehicle is equipped with two sets of seat safety belts. Motorcycles are
exempted from the provisions of this section.
   (B)   1961 or later model vehicles. No person shall operate any 1961 or
later model motor vehicle of the first division that is titled or licensed by
the Secretary of State unless the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped
with two sets of seat safety belts.
   (C)   Definition. As used in this section, SEAT SAFETY BELTS means a set of
belts or a harness meeting the specifications established by the State
Department of Transportation and installed in such manner as to prevent or
materially reduce the movement of the person using the same in the event of
collision or upset of the vehicle.
   (D)   Requirements. Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle
operated on a street or highway in this state shall wear a properly adjusted
and fastened seat safety belt; except that a child less than eight years of age
shall be protected as required pursuant to the Illinois Child Passenger
Protection Act, 625 ILCS 25/1. Each driver under the age of 18 years and each
of the driver’s passengers under the age of 19 years of a motor vehicle
operated on a street or highway in this state shall wear a properly adjusted
and fastened seat safety belt. Every passenger under the age of 19 in a vehicle
being driven by a person over the age of 18 who committed an offense against
traffic regulations governing the movement of vehicles or any violation of this
section or 625 ILCS 5/6-107 within six months prior to the driver’s eighteenth
birthday and was subsequently convicted of the violation, shall wear a properly
adjusted and fastened seat safety belt, until such time as a period of six
consecutive months has elapsed without the driver receiving an additional
violation and subsequent conviction of an offense against traffic regulations
governing the movement of vehicles or any violation of this section or 625 ILCS
5/6-107. Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a child eight years of age
or more, but less than 16 years of age, shall secure the child in a properly
adjusted and fastened seat safety belt.
   (E)   Exemptions. Division (D) shall not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle
or delivering property from the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle between
stops does not exceed 15 mph;
      (2)   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt;
      (3)   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or license
endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or country
indicating that the driver is unable for medical, physical or other valid
reasons to wear a seat safety belt;
      (4)   A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse;
      (5)   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965;
      (6)   A motorcycle or motor driven cycle;
      (7)   A moped;
      (8)   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under federal law; and
      (9)   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier of the United
States Postal Service while performing duties as a rural letter carrier.
   (F)   Negligence. Failure to wear a seat safety belt in violation of this
section shall not be considered evidence of negligence, shall not limit the
liability of an insurer and shall not diminish any recovery for damages arising
out of the ownership, maintenance or operation of a motor vehicle.
   (G)   Violation. No motor vehicle, or driver or passenger of such vehicle,
shall be stopped or searched by a law enforcement officer solely on the basis
of a violation or suspected violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 75.47) (Ord. 947-86, passed 4-2-1987; Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-
1988; Ord. 2307-95, passed 1-18-1995) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 12-603 and 5/12-603.1
§ 74.088 SUSPENSION SYSTEM.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, SUSPENSION SYSTEM shall mean the
system of devices consisting of, but not limited to: springs, spring shackles,
shock absorbers, torsion bars, frame or any other supporting members used to
attach the body of a motor vehicle to its axles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle on any highway of the
municipality when the suspension system has been modified from the original
manufactured design by lifting the body from the chassis in excess of three
inches, or to cause the horizontal line from the front to the rear bumper to
vary over three inches in height when measured from a level surface of the
highway to the lower edge of the bumper, except that it is unlawful to operate
a street rod or custom vehicle when the suspension system has been modified
from the original manufactured design so that the horizontal line from the
front to the rear bumper varies over seven inches in height when measured from
a level surface of the highway to the lower edge of the bumper.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the installation of manufactured
heavy duty equipment including shock absorbers and overload springs, nor shall
anything contained in this section prevent a person from operating a motor
vehicle on any highway of the municipality with normal wear of the suspension
system if normal wear does not affect the control or safe operation of the
vehicle. This section shall not apply to motor vehicles designed or modified
primarily for off-highway racing purposes while the vehicles are in tow or to
motorcycles or motor-driven cycles.
(Prior Code, § 75.48) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/1-204.05 and 5/12-607
§ 74.089 BUMPERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle
weight rating of 9,000 pounds or less or any motor vehicle registered as a
recreational vehicle under this title on any highway of this state unless the
motor vehicle is equipped with both a front and rear bumper.
   (B)   Except as indicated below, maximum bumper heights of such motor
vehicles shall be determined by weight category of gross vehicle weight rating
(GVWR), measured from a level surface to the highest point of the bottom of the
bumper when the vehicle is unloaded and the tires are inflated to the
manufacturer’s recommended pressure.
      (1)   Maximum bumper heights are as follows:
 
                                        Maximum Front  Maximum Rear Bumper
                                        Bumper Height  Height (inches)
                                        (inches)
All motor vehicles of the first
division (except multipurpose passenger 22             22
vehicles):
Multipurpose passenger vehicles and all
other motor vehicles:
   4,500 pounds and under GVWR       24             26
   4,501 pounds through 7,500 pounds 27             29
GVWR
   7,501 pounds through 9,000 pounds 28             30
GVWR
 
      (2)   It is unlawful to operate upon any highway of this state any
vehicle with a front bumper height that exceeds 28 inches or a rear bumper
height that exceeds 30 inches, regardless of the GVWR of the vehicle, except
those vehicles covered by Chapter 18b ILCS, being 625 ILCS 5/18b-100 et seq.
For any vehicle with bumpers or attaching components which have been modified
or altered from the original manufacturer’s design in order to conform with the
maximum bumper requirements for this section, the bumper height shall be
measured from a level surface to the bottom of the vehicle frame so modified or
altered shall be at least 4.5 inches in vertical height and extend no less than
the width of the respective wheel tracks outermost distance.
      (3)   However, nothing in this section shall prevent the installation of
bumper guards.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to street rods, custom vehicles or motor
vehicles designed or modified primarily for off-highway purposes while those
vehicles are in tow, or to motorcycles or motor driven cycles, nor to motor
vehicles registered as antique vehicles or expanded-use antique vehicles when
the original design of those antique vehicles or expanded-use antique vehicles
did not include bumpers. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
motor vehicle driven during the first 1,000 recorded miles of that vehicle,
when that vehicle is owned or operated by a manufacturer, dealer or transporter
displaying a special plate or plates as described in 625 ILCS 5/3-100 et seq.,
while that vehicle is: being delivered from the manufacturing or assembly plant
directly to the purchasing dealer or distributor, or from one dealership or
distributor to another; being moved by the most direct route from one location
to another for the purpose of installing special bodies or equipment; or being
driven for purposes of demonstration by a prospective buyer with the dealer or
their agent present in the cab of the vehicle during the demonstration. The
dealer shall, prior to the receipt of any deposit made or any contract signed
by the buyer to secure the purchase of a vehicle, inform the buyer, by written
statement signed by the purchaser to indicate acknowledgment of the contents
thereof, of the legal requirements of this section regarding front and rear
bumpers if that vehicle is not to be equipped with bumpers at the time of
delivery.
(Prior Code, § 75.49) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-608
§ 74.090 VIDEO DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A person may not operate a motor vehicle if a television
receiver, a video monitor, a television or video screen or any other similar
means of visually displaying a television broadcast or video signal that
produces entertainment or business applications is operating and is located in
the motor vehicle at any point forward of the back of the driver’s seat, or is
operating and visible to the driver while driving the motor vehicle.
      (2)   A person commits aggravated use of a video device when they violate
division (A)(1) above and in committing the violation they were involved in a
motor vehicle crash that results in great bodily harm, permanent disability,
disfigurement or death to another and the violation was a proximate cause of
the injury or death.
   (B)   This section does not apply to the following equipment, whether or not
permanently installed in a vehicle:
      (1)   A vehicle information display;
      (2)   A global positioning display;
      (3)   A mapping or navigation display;
      (4)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement the driver’s view
forward, behind or to the sides of a motor vehicle for the purpose of
maneuvering the vehicle;
      (5)   Television-type receiving equipment used exclusively for safety or
traffic engineering studies; or
      (6)   A television receiver, video monitor, television or video screen or
any other similar means of visually displaying a television broadcast or video
signal, if that equipment has an interlock device that, when the motor vehicle
is driven, disables the equipment for all uses except as a visual display as
described in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5) above.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a mobile, digital terminal installed in
an authorized emergency vehicle, a motor vehicle providing emergency road
service or roadside assistance or to motor vehicles utilized for public
transportation.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to a television receiver, video
monitor, television or video screen or any other similar means of visually
displaying a television broadcast or video signal if: the equipment is
permanently installed in the motor vehicle; and the moving entertainment images
that the equipment displays are not visible to the driver while the motor
vehicle is in motion.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a video event recorder, as defined
in 625 ILCS 5/1-218.10, installed in a contract carrier vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 75.51) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-604.1
§ 74.091 HEADSET RECEIVERS.
   (A)   Except as provided under 625 ILCS 5/11-1403.3, no driver of a motor
vehicle on the highways of this municipality shall wear headset receivers while
driving.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the use of a headset type receiving
equipment used exclusively for safety or traffic engineering studies or by law
enforcement personnel on duty, or emergency medical services and fire service
personnel.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the use of any single sided headset
type receiving and transmitting equipment designed to be used in or on ear
which is used exclusively for providing two-way radio vocal communications by
an individual in possession of a current and valid novice class or higher
amateur radio license issued by the Federal Communications Commission and an
amateur radio operator special registration plate or digital registration plate
issued under 625 ILCS 5/3-607.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit the use of a single-sided headset or
earpiece with a cellular or other mobile telephone.
(Prior Code, § 75.52) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-610
§ 74.092 DISPOSAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES BEARING POLICE MARKINGS.
   (A)   No official or employee of the municipality, and no owner or employee
of any new vehicle dealer, used vehicle dealer or vehicle auctioneer, shall
sell, trade or otherwise dispose of any motor vehicle bearing equipment,
markings or other indicia of police authority unless, prior to delivery of the
vehicle, the equipment and markings have been sufficiently altered or
obliterated to remove the appearance of police authority.
   (B)   A person may not operate on the highways of this state a vehicle
bearing the equipment, markings or other indicia of police authority, unless
the vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-105.
   (C)   This section does not apply to vehicles bearing indicia of police
authority that are antique vehicles, as defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-102.1, and are
registered as antique vehicles, as provided in 625 ILCS 5/3-804.
   (D)   (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a manufacturer of
authorized emergency vehicle equipment, markings or other indicia, or the
manufacturer’s representative or authorized vendor, from temporarily mounting
the equipment, markings or other indicia on a vehicle for demonstration
purposes only.
      (2)   If the equipment, markings or other indicia are not covered while
the vehicle is operated upon a highway, the vehicle shall display signage
indicating that the vehicle is out of service or not an emergency vehicle.
      (3)   The signage shall be displayed on all sides of the vehicle in
letters at least two inches tall and one-half inch wide.
   (E)   Any police officer is authorized to seize any vehicle that is in
violation of this section and to impound that vehicle, at the owner’s expense,
until any equipment, markings or other indicia of police authority have been
sufficiently removed, altered or obliterated to remove the appearance of police
authority.
(Prior Code, § 75.53) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-609
§ 74.093 SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No driver of any motor vehicle within this state shall operate or permit
operation of any sound amplification system which can be heard outside the
vehicle from 75 or more feet when the vehicle is being operated upon any
village street, road, bridge, alley or other public place, unless such system
is being operated to request assistance or warn of a hazardous situation.
(Prior Code, § 75.54) (Ord. 2306-95, passed 1-18-1995) Penalty, see §
74.999
**** SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR
SECOND DIVISION VEHICLES ****
§ 74.105 TRACTORS, TRACTION ENGINES AND MOTOR TRUCKS.
   (A)   No tractor, traction engine, motor truck or other similar vehicle
shall be operated across, over or along any public highway of the municipality
which has been oil-treated, if any such vehicle has on the periphery of any of
the road wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug or any projection of
metal or wood which projects radially beyond the tread or traffic surface of
the tire; however, this prohibition shall not apply to tractors or traction
engines equipped with what are known as crawler type tractors, when the same
does not contain any projections of any kind likely to injure the surface of
the road, nor to tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles which have
upon their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other cleats arranged in a manner
as to be continuously in contact with the road surface.
   (B)   In no event shall the oil mat surface of any oil-treated public road
be used as an area or space for turning any tractor or other farm machinery in
carrying on or performing any farming operations upon the adjacent land.
However, nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the operation of
tractors, traction engines or motor trucks across any oil-treated road in order
to reach adjacent lands; or the operation of any such vehicles upon the treated
portion of oil-treated roads, if there is no untreated portion thereof over
which they may be operated; or the operation of any such vehicles on oil-
treated roads if in passing along the road they travel over the portion of the
road which does not constitute the oil mat surface created by the oil
treatment; or the use of flexible tire chains on any tractor, traction engine,
motor truck or other similar vehicle being operated upon any such oil-treated
road.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to operate any tractor, traction engine,
motor truck or other similar vehicle over and along any public highway of the
municipality, which has been oil-treated, in violation of the provisions of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 75.60) Penalty, see §
74.999
Cross-reference:
   Operation regulations for farm tractors, see §
71.087
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-701
§ 74.106 CERTAIN VEHICLES TO CARRY FLARES OR OTHER WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle of the second division
weighing more than 8,000 pounds or any vehicle of the second division weighting
8,000 pounds or less towing a trailer or any motor vehicle towing a house
trailer upon any highway outside an urban district at any time unless there is
carried in the vehicle the following equipment, except as provided in division
(B) below:
      (1)   At least three liquid-burning flares, or three red electric
lanterns, or three portable red emergency reflectors, each of which is capable
of being seen and distinguished at a distance of not less than 500 feet when
lighted lamps are required; however, emergency reflectors meeting the
requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 125, 49 C.F.R. §
571.125, shall be deemed acceptable as regards visibility and color;
      (2)   At least three red-burning 15-minute fusees, unless red electric
lanterns or portable red emergency reflectors are carried; and
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than 12 inches square, with
standards to support flags, or in lieu thereof, two portable emergency
reflectors meeting the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard
No. 125, 49 C.F.R. § 571.125.
   (B)   No person shall operate, at the time and under the conditions stated
in division (A) above, any motor vehicle used for the transportation of
explosives, any cargo tank truck used for the transportation of flammable
liquids or compressed gases or any motor vehicle using compressed gas as a
fuel, unless there is carried in the vehicle three red electric lanterns or
three portable red emergency reflectors meeting the requirements of division
(A) above; such vehicle shall not carry any flares, fusees or signals produced
by flame.
   (C)   Whenever any motor vehicle of the second division weighing more than
8,000 pounds or any vehicle of the second division weighting 8,000 pounds or
less towing a trailer or any motor vehicle towing a house trailer is disabled
upon the roadway of any highway or the shoulder thereof outside an urban
district, or on any controlled-access highway within an urban district, at any
time when lighted lamps are required, the driver of the vehicle shall display
the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the vehicle is
so disabled, except as provided in division (D) below.
      (1)   A lighted fusee, a lighted red electric lantern or a portable red
emergency reflector shall be immediately placed at the traffic side of the
vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic. However, the
driver of the vehicle, upon learning of the disability, may simultaneously
flash the two front and two rear turn signals as a vehicular traffic warning,
and continue the flashing until the portable signals have been placed as
required by this section, and during the time the portable emergency signals
are being picked up for storage prior to the movement of the vehicles.
      (2)   As soon thereafter as possible, but in any event within the burning
period of the fusee (15 minutes), the driver shall place three liquid-burning
flares, or three lighted red electric lanterns, or three portable red emergency
reflectors on the roadway or shoulder of the highway in the following order:
         (a)   One approximately 100 feet from the disabled vehicle in the
center of the lane or shoulder occupied by the vehicle, and toward traffic
approaching in that lane;
         (b)   One approximately 100 feet in the opposite direction from the
disabled vehicle and in the center of the traffic lane or shoulder occupied by
the vehicle; and
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the disabled vehicle, not less than
ten feet to the rear or forward thereof in the direction of the nearest
approaching traffic. If a lighted red electric lantern or a portable red
emergency reflector has been placed at the traffic side of the vehicle in
accordance with division (C)(1) above, it may be used for this purpose.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle referred to in this section is disabled within
500 feet of a curve, hill crest or other obstruction to view, the warning
signal in that direction shall be so placed as to afford ample warning to other
users of the highway, but in no case less than 100 feet nor more than 500 feet
from the disabled vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any roadway or shoulder of a divided highway during the time that lighted
lamps are required, the appropriate warning devices prescribed in divisions (A)
(1) and (A)(2) above shall be placed as follows:
      (1)   One at a distance of approximately 200 feet from the vehicle in the
center of the lane or shoulder occupied by the stopped vehicle, and in the
direction of traffic approaching in that lane;
      (2)   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet from the vehicle in the
center of the lane or shoulder occupied by the vehicle, and in the direction of
traffic approaching in that lane; and
      (3)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle, and approximately ten feet
from the vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic.
   (F)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon the roadway of any highway or the shoulder thereof outside an urban
district, or on any controlled-access highway within an urban district, at any
time when the display of fusees, flares, red electric lanterns or portable red
emergency reflectors are not required, the driver of the vehicle shall display
two red cloth flags or two portable emergency reflectors meeting the
requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 125, 49 C.F.R. §
571.125, upon the roadway or shoulder in the lane of traffic occupied by the
disabled vehicle in the following order:
      (1)   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet in advance of the
vehicle; and
      (2)   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet to the rear of the
vehicle.
   (G)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any roadway or shoulder of a divided highway during the time that lighted
lamps are not required, the driver of the vehicle shall display two red cloth
flags or two portable emergency reflectors meeting the requirements of Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 125, 49 C.F.R. § 571.125, upon the roadway or
shoulder in the center of the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle
in the following order:
      (1)   One at a distance of approximately 200 feet to the rear of the
vehicle; and
      (2)   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet to the rear of the
vehicle.
   (H)   Whenever any motor vehicle used for the transportation of explosives,
or any cargo tank truck used for the transportation of any flammable liquid or
compressed flammable gas, or any motor vehicle using compressed gas as a fuel
is disabled upon a highway in the municipality at any time or place mentioned
in division (C) above, the driver of the vehicle shall immediately display
three red electric lanterns or portable red emergency reflectors placed in the
following order:
      (1)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle, and approximately ten feet
from the vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic;
      (2)   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet to the front of the
disabled vehicle in the center of the lane of traffic or shoulder occupied by
the vehicle; and
      (3)   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet to the rear of the
disabled vehicle in the center of the lane of traffic or shoulder occupied by
the vehicle. Flares, fusees or signals produced by flame shall not be used as
warning devices for disabled vehicles of the type mentioned in this division.
   (I)   The flares, fusees, red electric lanterns, portable red emergency
reflectors and flags to be displayed as required in this section shall conform
with the requirements of divisions (A) and (B) above applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 75.61) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-702
§ 74.107 ROAD OIL VEHICLES; DRIPPING ON CERTAIN HIGHWAYS FORBIDDEN.
   No person shall operate on a durable all-weather highway of a type other
than gravel or crushed stone, any vehicle used for the purpose of applying road
oil, liquid asphalt or similar material to road surfaces unless the vehicle is
so equipped as to absolutely prevent the material from dripping on the highway,
nor shall the material be allowed to drip on any such highway.
(Prior Code, § 75.62) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-703
§ 74.108 FIRE APPARATUS; SAFETY BELTS.
   No fire apparatus equipped to carry firefighters on the outside of the
vehicle on the sides, or rear, or both, shall be operated without first
installing on the fire apparatus on the sides and rear thereof a sufficient
number of safety belts and safety belt connections to protect the maximum
number of firefighters who can occupy the sides and rear of the apparatus while
responding to fire alarms. The municipality shall cause inspection of the
safety equipment at least semiannually.
(Prior Code, § 75.66) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-706
§ 74.109 OVERLOADED SCHOOL BUS; LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   No school bus, commuter van or motor vehicle, owned by or used for
hire by and in connection with the operation of private or public schools, day
camps, summer camps or nursery schools, or in charter operations, and no
commuter van or passenger car used for a for-profit ridesharing arrangement,
shall be operated if it is occupied by more passengers than recommended by the
manufacturer thereof if the vehicle is manufactured as a passenger vehicle; if
the vehicle is manufactured for use other than passenger, then it shall not
accommodate more passengers than provided for by the manufacturer in passenger
vehicles of like style or rating.
   (B)   No school bus, commuter van or motor vehicle, owned by or used for
hire by and in connection with the operation of private or public schools, day
camps, summer camps or nursery schools, and no commuter van or passenger car
used for a for-profit ridesharing arrangement, shall be operated for those
purposes unless the owner thereof shall carry a minimum personal injury
liability insurance in the amount of $25,000 for any one person in any one
accident, and subject to the limit for one person, $100,000 for two or more
persons injured by reason of the operation of the vehicle in any one accident.
(Prior Code, § 75.67) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-707 and 5/12-707.1
§ 74.110 OPERATOR PROTECTIVE FRAMES ON TRACTOR-MOWER COMBINATIONS.
   (A)   No tractor unit over 16-horsepower engine designed for mowing or
tractor-mower combination unit over 16-horsepower engine owned or leased by the
village shall be operated for the purpose of mowing vegetation on highway
right-of-way unless the tractor of the unit is equipped with an operator
protective frame conforming to the specifications prescribed by regulations
under the United States Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, being 29
U.S.C. §§ 651 et seq., as amended, and with a seat safety belt.
   (B)   The operator protective frame may be incorporated into a cab, which
design shall conform to the specifications established by the United States
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended.
   (C)   The seat safety belt must meet the requirements provided in §
74.087.
(Prior Code, § 75.68) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-708
§ 74.111 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM.
   (A)   Every animal-drawn vehicle, farm tractor, implement of husbandry and
special mobile equipment, when operated on a highway, must display a slow-
moving vehicle emblem mounted on the rear, except as provided in division (B)
below. Special mobile equipment is exempt when operated within the limits of a
construction or maintenance project where traffic-control devices are used in
compliance with the applicable provisions of the manual and specifications
adopted under 625 ILCS 5/11-301.
   (B)   Every vehicle or unit described in division (A) above, when operated
in combination on a highway, must display a slow-moving vehicle emblem as
follows.
      (1)   Where the towed unit or any load thereon partially or totally
obscures the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the towing unit, the towed unit
shall be equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem. In those cases, the towing
unit need not display the emblem.
      (2)   Where the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the towing unit is not
obscured by the towed unit or its load, then either or both may be equipped
with the required emblem, but it shall be sufficient if either displays it.
      (3)   A registered truck towed behind a farm tractor in conformity with
the provisions of §
71.087 must display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in the manner provided in
division (C) below while being towed on a highway if the emblem on the towing
vehicle is partially or totally obscured.
   (C)   The slow-moving vehicle emblem required by divisions (A) and (B) above
must meet or exceed the specifications and mounting requirements established by
the Department. The specifications and mounting requirements shall, on and
before August 31, 2004, be based on the specifications adopted by the American
Society of Agricultural Engineers and published by that body as ASAE S 276.2,
dated March 1968. On and after September 1, 2004, the specifications and
mounting requirements shall be based on the specifications adopted by the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers and published by that body as ASAE S
276.5 NOV 97. No advertising or other marking shall appear upon the emblem
except that specified by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers to
identify the standard to which the material complies. Each original package
containing a slow-moving vehicle emblem shall display a notice on the outside
of the package stating that such emblem shall only be used for the purposes
stated in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   A slow-moving vehicle emblem is intended as a safety identification
device, and shall not be displayed on any vehicle nor displayed in any manner
other than as described in divisions (A), (B) and (C) above. A slow-moving
vehicle emblem may not be displayed in public view from a highway on an object
other than a vehicle or unit described in division (A) above or a vehicle
required to display a slow-moving vehicle emblem under 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e).
A violation of this division (D) is a petty offense punishable by a fine of
$75.
(Prior Code, § 75.69) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-709
§ 74.112 REAR FENDER SPLASH GUARDS.
   (A)   Splash guards required. It is unlawful for any person to operate any
motor vehicle of the second division, except a truck tractor, to which this
section is applicable, upon any highway of the municipality outside an urban
area unless the vehicle is equipped with rear fender splash guards of either
the contour type or the flap type which comply with the specifications provided
in this section for the type of splash guards used on the vehicle, and which
are so attached as to prevent the splashing of mud or water upon the windshield
of other motor vehicles.
   (B)   Specifications for contour type splash guards.
      (1)   When contour type rear fender splash guards are used, they shall
contour the wheel in such a manner that the relationship of the inside surface
of any splash guard to the tread surface of the tire or wheel shall be
relatively parallel, both laterally and across the wheel, at least throughout
the top 90 degrees of the rear 180 degrees of the wheel surface. However, on
vehicles which have a clearance of less than five inches between the top of the
tire or wheel and that part of the body of the vehicle directly above the tire
or wheel when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity, the curved
portion of the splash guard need only extend from a point directly behind the
center of the rear axle and to the rear of the wheel surface upwards to within
at least two inches of the bottom line of the body when the vehicle is loaded
to maximum legal capacity.
      (2)   There shall be a downward extension of the curved surface which
shall end not more than 12 inches from the ground when the vehicle is loaded to
maximum legal capacity. This downward extension shall be part of the curved
surface or attached directly to the curved surface, but it need not contour the
wheel.
      (3)   Contour type splash guards shall be wide enough to cover the full
tread width of the tire or tires being protected, and shall be installed not
more than six inches from the tread surface of the tire or wheel when the
vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity.
      (4)   The splash guard shall have a lip or flange on its outside edge to
minimize side throw and splash. The lip or flange shall extend toward the
center of the wheel, and shall be perpendicular to and extend not less than two
inches below the inside or bottom surface line or plane of the guard.
      (5)   Contour type splash guards may be constructed of either a rigid or
flexible material, but shall be attached in such a manner that, regardless of
movement either by the splash guards or the vehicle, the splash guards will
retain their general parallel relationship to the tread surface of the tire or
wheel under all ordinary operating conditions.
   (C)   Specifications for flap type splash guards.
      (1)   When flap type splash guards are used, they shall be wide enough to
cover the full tread width of the tire or tires being protected.
      (2)   Flap type splash guards shall be so installed that they extend from
the underside of the vehicle in a vertical plane behind the rear wheels to
within 12 inches of the ground, when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal
capacity.
      (3)   Flap type splash guards shall be so constructed and attached so
that when the vehicle is in forward motion, the splash guard will not deviate
or move backward from the vertical plane by an angle of more than 30 measured
from the vertical plane, and so that when the forward motion of the vehicle
causes the splash guard to deviate from the vertical plane, the bottom of the
flap type splash guard will not be more than 15 inches from the ground, when
the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity.
      (4)   The flap type splash guard may be constructed of either a rigid or
flexible material.
   (D)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to vehicles the construction
or design of which does not require splash guards, nor to vehicles in transit
and capable only of using temporary splash guards prescribed by the Department,
nor to pole trailers.
(Prior Code, § 75.70) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-710
**** SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SCHOOL BUSES ****
§ 74.125 COLOR.
   The exterior of each school bus shall be national school bus glossy yellow
except as follows.
   (A)   The fenders of school buses manufactured before January 1, 1976 may be
black.
   (B)   Body trim, rub rails, lettering other than on a stop signal arm and
the bumpers on a Type I school bus shall be glossy black.
   (C)   Lettering on a stop signal arm shall be white on a red background.
   (D)   Bumpers on a Type II school bus may be glossy black or a bright, light
or colorless finish.
   (E)   The hood and upper cowl may be lusterless black or lusterless school
bus yellow.
   (F)   Grilles on the front, lamp trim and hubcaps may be a bright finish.
   (G)   The name or emblem of a manufacturer may be colorless or any color.
   (H)   The exterior paint of any school bus shall match the central value,
hue and chroma set forth in rules promulgated by the Department of
Transportation.
   (I)   The rooftop may be white.
(Prior Code, § 75.76) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-801
§ 74.126 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Each school bus shall have the sign “SCHOOL BUS” painted on both the
front and rear of the bus as high as practicable in letters at least eight
inches high.
   (B)   Each school bus and multifunction school-activity bus (MFSAB) shall
have the vehicle weight and the vehicle maximum passenger capacity recommended
by the manufacturer of the bus, which shall be based upon provision for 13
inches of seating space for each passenger exclusive of the driver, painted on
the body to the left of the service door in letters at least two inches high.
The name of the owner or the entity or both for which the school bus or MFSAB
is operated shall be painted in a contrasting color on both sides, centered as
high as practicable below the window line, in letters at least four inches
high. An identification number shall be painted as high as practicable on both
the front and rear of the school bus or MFSAB in letters at least four inches
high.
   (C)   Decals may be used instead of painting under this section.
(Prior Code, § 75.77) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-802
§ 74.127 STOP SIGNAL ARM.
   (A)   Each school bus shall be equipped with a stop signal arm on the
driver’s side of the school bus, that may be operated either manually or
mechanically. For each school bus manufactured on and after September 1, 1992,
the stop signal arm shall be octagon shaped semaphore that conforms to 49
C.F.R. pt. 571.131, “School Bus Pedestrian Safety Devices,” S5.1 through S5.5.
   (B)   Each school bus manufactured prior to September 1, 1992 shall be
equipped with a stop signal arm that conforms to standards promulgated by the
Department of Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 75.78) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-803
§ 74.128 OTHER VEHICLES NOT TO MIMIC SCHOOL BUS.
   No vehicle other than a school bus shall be identified with the sign “SCHOOL
BUS,” shall be equipped with a stop signal arm, shall be equipped with a strobe
lamp or shall be equipped with a warning lamp system as described in §
74.129. No commuter van or bus other than a school bus shall be painted
national school bus glossy yellow or a color that closely resembles national
school bus glossy yellow.
(Prior Code, § 75.79) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-804
§ 74.129 SPECIAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All school buses shall be equipped with an eight-lamp flashing signal
system.
   (B)   A four-lamp flashing signal system shall have two alternately flashing
red lamps mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally on the same level as
practicable at the front of the school bus, and two alternately flashing red
lamps mounted in the same manner at the rear.
   (C)   An eight-lamp flashing signal system shall have, in addition to a
four-lamp system, four alternately flashing amber lamps. Each amber lamp shall
be mounted next to a red lamp and at the same level but closer to the center
line of the school bus.
   (D)   Each signal lamp shall be a sealed beam at least five and one-half
inches in diameter, and shall have sufficient intensity to be visible at 500
feet in normal sunlight. Both the four-lamp and eight-lamp system shall be
actuated only by means of a manual switch. There shall be a device for
indicating to the driver that the system is operating properly or is
inoperative.
   (E)   A school bus may also be equipped with alternately flashing head
lamps, which may be operated in conjunction with the eight-lamp flashing signal
system.
(Prior Code, § 75.80) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-805
§ 74.130 IDENTIFICATION WHEN SCHOOL BUS USED FOR OTHER PURPOSE.
   (A)   Whenever a school bus is operated for the purpose of transporting
passengers other than persons in connection with an activity of the school or
religious organization which owns the school bus, or for which the school bus
is operated, the “SCHOOL BUS” signs shall be covered or concealed and the stop
signal arm and flashing signal system shall not be operable through normal
controls.
   (B)   If a school district, religious organization, vendor of school buses
or school bus company whose main source of income is contracting with a school
district or religious organization for the provision of transportation services
in connection with the activities of a school district or religious
organization, discards through either sale or donation a school bus to an
individual or entity that is not one of the aforementioned entities above, then
the recipient of such school bus shall be responsible for immediately removing,
covering or concealing the “SCHOOL BUS” signs and any other insignia or words
indicating the vehicle is a school bus, rendering inoperable or removing
entirely the stop signal arm and flashing signal system and painting the school
bus a different color from those under 625 ILCS 5/12-801.
(Prior Code, § 75.81) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-806
§ 74.131 SEAT BELT FOR DRIVER.
   Each school bus shall be equipped with a retractable lap belt assembly for
the driver’s seat. No school bus shall be operated unless the driver has
properly restrained themself with the lap belt assembly.
(Prior Code, § 75.82) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-807
§ 74.132 SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Each school bus shall be equipped with at least one dry chemical gauge
type fire extinguisher mounted in the extinguisher manufacturer’s automobile
type bracket in a position readily accessible to the driver.
   (B)   Each school bus shall be equipped with a first aid kit mounted in full
view of and readily accessible to the driver.
(Prior Code, § 75.83) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-808
    and 5/12-809
§ 74.133 RESTRAINING DEVICES FOR PASSENGERS WHO ARE PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   Each school bus which is operated for transporting passengers who are
persons with disabilities shall be equipped with an appropriate restraining or
safety device for each such passenger.
(Prior Code, § 75.84) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-810
§ 74.134 AMBER THREE BAR CLEARANCE LIGHT.
   Each Type I school bus shall be equipped with an amber three bar clearance
light on the front of the bus. The light shall be illuminated at all times when
the bus is being operated between sunset and sunrise, and in conditions of
reduced visibility.
(Prior Code, § 75.85) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-811
**** SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION BUSES ****
§ 74.145 COLOR AND MARKINGS.
   Each religious organization bus may be of any color and have any markings
designating its purpose other than those required for school buses under §§
74.125 through
74.134.
(Prior Code, § 75.90) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-900
§ 74.146 SPECIAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any religious organization bus may be equipped with a four-lamp flashing
signal system having unison flashing amber lamps, two at the front and two at
the rear of the bus, mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally on the same
level as is practicable. If this equipment is installed, each lamp must be a
sealed beam at least five and one-half inches in diameter and have sufficient
intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The system shall be
actuated only by means of a manual switch; and there shall be a device for
indicating to the driver that the system is operating properly or is
inoperative.
(Prior Code, § 75.91) Penalty, see §
74.999
Statutory reference:
   Department may adopt additional regulations, see 625 ILCS 5/12-902
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/12-901
§ 74.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Oscillating, rotating, flashing lights.
      (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
74.028(A), (B), (C), (D)(1), (D)(2) or (D)(3) who without lawful authority
stops or detains or attempts to stop or detain another person shall be guilty
of a Class 2 felony.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(1) above, any person violating
the provisions of §
74.028(A) or (C) shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/12-215)
   (C)   Video devices.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, a person convicted of
violating §
74.090 is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not more than $100 for a
first offense, not more than $200 for a second offense within one year of a
previous conviction and not more than $250 for a third or subsequent offense
within one year of two previous convictions.
      (2)   A person convicted of violating §
74.090(A)(2) commits a Class A misdemeanor if the violation resulted in great
bodily harm, permanent disability or disfigurement to another. A person
convicted of violating §
74.090(A)(2) commits a Class 4 felony, to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, if the violation resulted in the death of another person.
(Prior Code, § 75.51)
   (D)   Motor vehicles bearing police markings. A person convicted of
violating §
74.092 is guilty of a petty offense and subject to a fine of not less than $500
and not more than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 75.53)
   (E)   Sound amplification systems. Any violation of the provisions of §
74.093 shall be a petty offense punishable by a fine not to exceed $150.
(Prior Code, § 75.54)
(Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988; Ord. 2306-95, passed 1-18-1995)
CHAPTER 75: LOADS; PERMITS
Section
   
75.01   Scope and effect of chapter
   
75.02   Liability for damage to village highways, roads, streets or structures
   
75.03   Width of vehicles
   
75.04   Height of vehicles
   
75.05   Length of vehicles
   
75.06   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.07   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.08   Weight of vehicles; weight on structures
   
75.09   Planking edge of a pavement
   
75.10   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.11   Pushing of disabled vehicles
   
75.12   Towed vehicles
   
75.13   Weighing vehicles; removal of excess loads
   
75.14   Temporary restrictions on highway use
   
75.15   Permitting for overweight and overdimension vehicles/loads
   
75.16   Designated truck routes
 
   
75.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Special Movement Permit
   
Appendix B:   Truck Route Designation and Truck Route Exclusions
   
Appendix C:   Template Vehicles for Maximum Overweight Permit Weights
§ 75.01 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, it is unlawful for
any person to drive or move on, upon or across, or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on, upon or across any highway, street
or road of the village any vehicle or vehicles of a size and weight exceeding
the limitations stated in this chapter without a valid permit issued by the
village permitting such movement. Unless otherwise reasonably required by the
context, terms used in this chapter and not expressly defined herein shall have
the meanings ascribed thereto in the applicable provisions of the Illinois
Vehicle Code. All references to highways, roads, streets or structures thereof
in this chapter shall be deemed to mean and include only the highways, roads,
streets and structures thereof of the village.
   (B)   The following listed vehicles shall be exempt from the requirements of
this chapter to obtain a permit prior to operating on highways, roads or
streets of the village; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be
construed or deemed to authorize such vehicles to be operated on village roads
or streets in excess of the maximum weight and sizes set forth in §§
75.03,
75.04,
75.05 and
75.08:
      (1)   Vehicles owned and operated by units of government;
      (2)   Vehicles owned and operated by the village, any other unit of
government, public utility companies and contractors or suppliers thereof, when
engaged in the repair, maintenance or construction of streets or public utility
facilities within the village, or while traveling to or from the site of such
repair, maintenance or construction;
      (3)   Vehicles engaged in the collection of refuse;
      (4)   Passenger buses;
      (5)   Privately-owned and operated snow removal vehicles engaged in the
removal of snow from private property within the village, or traveling to or
from the site of such snow removal;
      (6)   Towing and recovery vehicles licensed and regulated by the state,
and, where applicable, by the village;
      (7)   Agricultural equipment, when in use on private property and while
traveling to and from the location of such private property, and agricultural
equipment when carrying loads of hay, straw or similar farm produce;
      (8)   Vehicles used or to be used in connection with responding to public
emergencies or states of disaster existing within the village;
      (9)   Vehicles having a local origin or destination, where necessary to
the transaction of business, making of deliveries or provision of services to
an owner or occupant of property where access to the local destination or
egress from the local origin is required over the village public street system;
      (10)   Vehicles otherwise exempted from the application of this chapter
by applicable state or federal law; and
      (11)   Vehicles following Village Police Department orders or
instructions and vehicles traveling on a duly established detour route approved
by the village.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent compliance with a lawful
detour or traffic directive issued by the State Department of Transportation or
county authorities.
(Prior Code, § 76.01) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.02 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE TO VILLAGE HIGHWAYS, ROADS, STREETS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any person driving any vehicle, object or contrivance upon any village
highway, road, street or structure thereof is liable for all damage which the
same may sustain as a result of any illegal operation, driving or moving of the
vehicle, object or contrivance, or as a result of operating, driving or moving
any vehicle, object or contrivance exceeding the maximum dimensions or weighing
in excess of the maximum weight specified in this chapter but authorized by a
special permit issued as provided in this chapter. The measure of liability is
the cost of repairing a facility partially damaged or the depreciated
replacement cost of a facility damaged beyond repair together with all other
expenses incurred by the authorities in control of the highway or highway
structure in providing a temporary detour, including a temporary structure, to
serve the needs of traffic during the period of repair or replacement of the
damaged highway or highway structure.
   (B)   Whenever the driver is not the owner of the vehicle, object or
contrivance, but is so operating, driving or moving the same with the express
or implied permission of the owner, then the owner and driver are jointly and
severally liable to the extent provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Recovery may be had in a civil action brought by the village, or in
connection with the prosecution of a complaint for the violation of any
provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 76.02) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03 WIDTH OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate any vehicle in excess of eight feet six inches in
width, including the load, without first obtaining a permit for such operation
under this chapter, and complying with all terms and conditions of such permit.
(Prior Code, § 76.03) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/15-102
§ 75.04 HEIGHT OF VEHICLES.
   No person or persons shall operate any vehicles in excess of 13 feet, six
inches in height, including the load, without first obtaining a permit for such
operation under this chapter, and complying with all terms and conditions of
such permit.
(Prior Code, § 76.04) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/15-103
§ 75.05 LENGTH OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle, unloaded or with load, shall exceed a length of 42 feet
extreme overall dimension except as otherwise allowed by this chapter.
   (B)   No truck tractor and semitrailer, unloaded or with load, shall exceed
a length of 55 feet extreme overall dimension, except that such combination
when specially designed to transport motor vehicles may have a length of 60
feet extreme overall dimension, subject to those exceptions and special rules
otherwise stated in this chapter. No other combination of vehicles, unloaded or
with load, shall exceed a length of 60 feet extreme overall dimension, except
that a truck tractor with semitrailer drawing one trailer, unloaded or with
load, or a tractor and stinger-steered semitrailer, or any combination when
specially designed to transport motor vehicles, with load, may have a length of
65 feet extreme overall dimension on any four-lane highway and, in addition,
upon request of any interested person, on any other street or highway, which is
required by public necessity and on which such combination can be safely
operated, as designated by the Police Department.
   (C)   A truck tractor semitrailer may draw one trailer, and a truck in
transit may draw two trucks in transit coupled together by the dual saddlemount
method. No other combinations of vehicles coupled together shall consist of
more than two vehicles.
   (D)   Length limitations shall not apply to vehicles when transporting
poles, pipes, machinery or other objects of a structural nature which cannot
readily be disassembled, nor to vehicles transporting such objects operated at
nighttime by a public utility when required for emergency repair of utility
facilities serving the public; provided, however, that the operator of the
vehicle making any such movement shall first apply to the village for an
overlength permit pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Neither shall the
length limitations apply to a combination of vehicles consisting of a towing
vehicle and a disabled vehicle or vehicles when engaged in towing the disabled
vehicle or vehicles from the highway to the nearest repair station; however, it
is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other vehicle,
except in an extreme emergency and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther
than is reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the
immediate hazard that exists, on any highway in this state.
   (E)   The load upon any vehicle operated alone, or the load upon the front
vehicle of a combination of vehicles, shall not extend more than three feet
beyond the front wheels of such vehicle or the front bumper of such vehicle if
it is equipped with such a bumper.
   (F)   No vehicle with or without load that exceeds the length restrictions
set forth in this section shall be operated without a permit having first been
obtained for such operation in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 76.05) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/15-107
§ 75.06 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street, road or highway
of the village with any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the
fenders on the left side of the vehicle, nor extending more than six inches
beyond the line of the fenders on the right side thereof.
(Prior Code, § 76.06) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.07 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicles with boom, arm, drill rig or other protruding component shall be
operated upon any road, street or highway within the village unless the
protruding component is fastened so as to prevent shifting, bouncing or moving
in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 76.07) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.08 WEIGHT OF VEHICLES; WEIGHT ON STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle in excess of 80,000 pounds in
gross weight, including the load, without first obtaining a permit therefor
under the provisions of this chapter. No person shall operate any vehicle with
any axle weight in excess of 20,000 pounds, or with any tandem axle weight in
excess of 34,000 pounds without first obtaining a permit therefor under the
provisions of this chapter. Additionally, no person shall operate a vehicle or
combination of vehicles over a bridge or other elevated structure constituting
a part of a village road, street or highway with a gross weight which is
greater than the maximum weight permitted by the village, when such bridge or
structure is posted with signage as contemplated by this section. The village,
upon its own initiative, may conduct an investigation of any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if it finds that the
structure cannot safely withstand the weight of vehicles otherwise permissible
under this chapter, the village shall determine and declare the maximum weight
of vehicles which the structure can withstand, and shall cause or permit
suitable signs stating the maximum weight to be erected and maintained before
each end of the structure. The village shall also be permitted to request the
State Department of Transportation to conduct such an investigation and to
render a determination and declaration of the maximum weight of the vehicles
which the structure in question can withstand. Upon the trial of any person
charged with a violation of this section, proof of the determination of the
maximum allowable weight by the village or the State Department of
Transportation, and the existence of the signs constitutes conclusive evidence
of the maximum weight which can be maintained with safety to the bridge or
structure.
   (B)   (1)   However, during the period designated as the harvest season
under 625 ILCS 5/15-301, a vehicle that is transporting agricultural
commodities from the point of production to a storage or processing facility,
or to a livestock feeding operation, may be operated with a gross weight of up
to 10% above the legal limits; provided the requirements of 625 ILCS 5/15-301
are met, including, but not limited to, proper notification to and approval
from the State Department of Transportation where applicable. This exception
shall not apply to any vehicle crossing a posted bridge or elevated structure,
unless otherwise authorized.
      (2)   In accordance with 625 ILCS 5/15-316, during periods of thawing
between winter frost and spring warmth, the village may impose reduced weight
limits on roadways or structures vulnerable to damage. The village may post
temporary signs indicating the maximum weight limits in effect during such
periods, which shall be determined based on current or anticipated thaw
conditions that affect the structural integrity of the roadway. It shall be
unlawful to operate any vehicle in violation of such temporary spring load
restrictions. The village may use discretion or consult with the State
Department of Transportation or relevant engineering assessments to determine
the timing and extent of such restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 76.08) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.09 PLANKING EDGE OF A PAVEMENT.
   No tractor, traction engine or other metal-tired vehicle, weighing more than
8,000 pounds, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall drive up
onto, off or over the edge of any paved road, street or highway in the village,
without protecting the edge by putting down solid planks or other suitable
device to prevent the vehicle from breaking off the edges or corners of the
pavement.
(Prior Code, § 76.09) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.10 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, road or highway
within the village unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent
any of its load from dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping
therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing
traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning
or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street, road or highway within the
village any vehicle with any load unless the load and any covering thereon is
securely fastened so as to prevent the covering or load from becoming loose,
detached or in any manner a hazard to other users of the highway.
(Prior Code, § 76.10) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.11 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any road, street or highway in the village except in an
extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than is
reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate hazard
that exists.
(Prior Code, § 76.11) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.12 TOWED VEHICLES.
   (A)   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby, and the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other, except for the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles,
pipes, machinery or other objects of a structural nature which cannot readily
be dismembered.
   (B)   No vehicle, other than a pole trailer or a semitrailer which is being
towed by a truck tractor, and is connected by the means of a fifth wheel, shall
be towed on a roadway except by a drawbar, and each vehicle so towed shall be
coupled with two safety chains or cables to the towing vehicle. The chains or
cables shall be of sufficient size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle
parting from the drawing vehicle in case the drawbar should break or become
disengaged.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any second division
vehicle owned, operated or controlled by any person who is registered with the
Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety of the Federal Highway Administration, and has
complied with the federal safety provisions of the Bureau of Motor Carrier
Safety of the Federal Highway Administration and the rules and regulations of
the Bureau.
(Prior Code, § 76.12) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.13 WEIGHING VEHICLES; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOADS.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and load is unlawful shall require the driver to stop and submit to a
weighing of the same, either by means of portable or stationary scales. If the
scales are not available at the place where the vehicle is stopped, the police
officer shall require that the vehicle be driven to the nearest available scale
that has been tested and approved by the State Department of Agriculture.
Notwithstanding any provisions of the Weights and Measures Act, 225 ILCS 470/1,
or the United States Department of Commerce NIST Handbook 44, multi- or single-
draft weighing is an acceptable method of weighing by law enforcement for
determining a violation of this chapter or the Illinois Vehicle Code. Law
enforcement is exempt from the requirements of commercial weighing established
in NIST Handbook 44.
   (B)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and the load, determines
that the weight is unlawful, the officer shall require the driver to stop the
vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until that portion of the load
is removed as may be necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit
permitted under this chapter, or to the limit permitted under the terms of a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter, and shall forthwith arrest the driver
or owner. All material so unloaded shall be cared for by the owner or operator
of the vehicle at the risk of the owner or operator; however, whenever a three-
or four-axle vehicle with a tandem axle dimension greater than 72 inches, but
less than 96 inches and registered as a special hauling vehicle is transporting
asphalt or concrete in the plastic state that exceeds axle weight or gross
weight limits by less than 4,000 pounds, the owner or operator of the vehicle
shall accept the arrest ticket or tickets for the alleged violations under this
section and proceed without shifting or reducing the load being transported or
may shift or reduce the load under the provisions of divisions (D) or (E)
below, when applicable.
   (C)   Whenever any axle load of a vehicle exceeds the weight limits
permitted by §
75.08 by 2,000 pounds or less, the owner or operator of the vehicle must shift
or remove the excess so as to comply with §
75.08. No overweight arrest ticket shall be issued to the owner or operator of
the vehicle by any officer if the excess weight is shifted or removed as
required hereby.
   (D)   Whenever the gross weight of a vehicle with a registered gross weight
of 80,000 pounds or less exceeds the weight limits of §
75.08 by 2,000 pounds or less, the owner or operator of the vehicle must remove
the excess. In either case, no arrest ticket shall be issued to the owner or
operator of the vehicle if the excess weight is removed as required by this
division. The owner or operator shall be responsible for the lawful disposition
of the excess load.
   (E)   Whenever an axle load of a vehicle exceeds axle weight limits allowed
by the provisions of a permit issued under this chapter, an arrest ticket shall
be issued, but the owner or operator of the vehicle may shift the load so as to
comply with the provisions of the permit. Where shifting of a load to comply
with the permit is accomplished, the owner or operator of the vehicle may then
proceed, but the arrest ticket shall stand.
   (F)   Any driver of a vehicle who refuses to stop and submit their vehicle
and load to weighing after being directed to do so by an officer, or removes or
causes the removal of the load or part of it prior to weighing, is guilty of a
violation of this chapter, and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than
$2,000.
   (G)   In addition, upon conviction or plea of guilty for such violation, any
overweight or over dimension permit issued by the village to the driver shall
be revoked. The driver shall also be barred from applying for or receiving any
overweight or over dimension permit within the village for a period of one year
from the date of conviction or plea. This suspension shall also apply in cases
involving more serious offenses, including, but not limited to, gross weight
violations exceeding 10% of the legal limit, bypassing a posted weight
restriction or operating in violation of a posted spring thaw or bridge
restriction. If a driver is found to have committed a second or subsequent
violation of any overweight or over dimension provision of this chapter within
a five-year period, the same penalty shall apply, and the driver shall be
barred from applying for or receiving any overweight or over dimension permit
within the village for a period of two years from the date of the most recent
conviction or plea.
(Prior Code, § 76.13) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.14 TEMPORARY RESTRICTIONS ON HIGHWAY USE.
   (A)   The village, with respect to highways, streets or roadways under its
jurisdiction, may, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation of
vehicles upon the same, or impose restrictions as to the weight of vehicles to
be operated upon thereon, for a total period of not to exceed 90 days, measured
in either consecutive or nonconsecutive days at the discretion of the village,
in any one calendar year, whenever any highway, by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climate conditions, will be seriously damaged or destroyed,
unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited or the permissible weights
thereof reduced.
   (B)   The village, after enacting any such ordinance or resolution, shall
erect or cause to be erected and maintained signs designating the provision of
the ordinance or resolution at each end of that portion of any highway, road or
street affected thereby, and the ordinance or resolution shall not be effective
unless and until the signs are erected and maintained.
   (C)   The village, with respect to highways, streets or roadways under its
jurisdiction, may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation of
trucks or other commercial vehicles, or may impose limitations on the weight
thereof, on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designated by appropriate signs placed on the highways.
   (D)   When any vehicle is operated in violation of §
75.14, the owner or driver of the vehicle shall be deemed guilty of a violation
and either the owner or the driver of the vehicle may be prosecuted for the
violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of violating §
75.14 shall be fined $50 for any weight exceeding the posted limit up to the
applicable axle or gross weight limits allowed by §
75.08 and $75 per every 500 pounds or fraction thereof for any weight in excess
of the applicable axle or gross weight limits allowed by §
75.08.
(Prior Code, § 76.14) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.15 PERMITTING FOR OVERWEIGHT AND OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES/LOADS.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the provisions of
this section shall apply to and govern the issuance of permits by the village
for the movement of overweight and oversize vehicles on village roads and
streets. Nothing in this section shall relieve any owner or operator of the
obligation to obtain permits from any other governmental entity or agency
having jurisdiction for the movement of oversize or overweight vehicles within
the corporate limits of the village, and no permit issued under this section
shall be construed or deemed to authorize the holder thereof to violate the
laws or regulations of any other governmental entity having jurisdiction, or of
any applicable ordinances of the village. Permits under this section shall only
be issued to persons or entities that own and operate the vehicle(s) subject to
the permit, or that operate the vehicle(s) subject to the permit pursuant to a
written lease agreement. Permits shall be nontransferable, and usable only by
the permittee with respect to the vehicle(s) described in the permit
application.
      (2)   Unless otherwise exempted from the provisions of this chapter, all
vehicles exceeding the weights and dimensions hereinabove set forth in §§
75.03, 75.04, 75.05 and 75.08 shall be required to obtain the appropriate
permit under this chapter to lawfully allow movements involving such excess
weights or dimensions.
   (B)   Form of application; conditions. The form of the application for an
overweight/overdimension permits and the conditions applicable to vehicle
movements made under such permits are set forth in Appendix A to this chapter.
The Village Police Department shall be authorized to revise or modify such form
from time to time as it deems necessary without further action by the corporate
authorities, and provided further, however, that the Department shall cause all
such revisions or modifications to be reflected in Appendix A to this chapter.
All permit applications seeking a permit for overdimension movements
(overwidth, overlength or overheight movements) shall be accompanied by
documentation acceptable to the village demonstrating that the proposed route
for the movement of the vehicle and load in question can be accommodated
without damaging public or private property within the village, and without
posing undue risk of harm to other motorists or pedestrians within the village.
All such permits shall likewise be subject to the permittee’s compliance with
the applicable ordinances of the village.
   (C)   Limitations on overweight/overdimension permits.
      (1)   Designated village roads/streets/highways only. Except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, overweight/overdimension permits issued by the
village shall only be valid and effective to authorize movements on the village
roads, streets and highways listed in §
75.16 and depicted in Appendix B to this chapter, and shall be void and of no
effect whatsoever on any village streets or roadways other than those set forth
in §
75.16 and depicted in Appendix B to this chapter. Additionally, overweight/
overdimension permits shall also be void or of limited effect in the specific
locations designated as truck route exclusions in Appendix B and posted with
appropriate signage by the Department of Public Works.
      (2)   Maximum weights and dimensions. The village shall have no
obligation whatsoever to approve any overweight or overdimension permit that
contemplates vehicle movements involving weights or dimensions in excess of any
of the following, and further shall have no obligation to approve any
overweight or overdimension permit where the applicant fails to demonstrate
that it has made commercially reasonable and good faith efforts to reduce the
excess weight of the vehicle and load or the excess dimension of the vehicle
and load, whether by modifying or redistributing the load, dividing the load or
using different vehicles or trailers to provide additional axles to distribute
excess weight loads.
         (a)   Maximum overweight permit weight. The maximum weights that can
be approved by an overweight permit issued under this section shall be as set
forth in the vehicle templates included as Appendix C to this chapter.
         (b)   Maximum overdimension permit height. The maximum height that can
be approved by an overdimension permit issued under this section shall be 15
feet, including the load.
         (c)   Maximum overdimension permit width. The maximum width that can
be approved by an overdimension permit issued under this section shall be 14
feet six inches in width, including the load.
         (d)   Maximum overdimension permit length. The maximum length that can
be approved by an overdimension permit issued under this section shall be 100
feet, including the load.
      (3)   Permit applications for weights and dimensions in excess of the
limits established by division (C)(2) above. Applicants seeking to move vehicle
and load combinations in excess of the weights and dimensions set forth in
division (C)(2) above shall make application to the village as otherwise
provided herein; provided, however, that the review of such applications shall
be conditioned upon the applicant’s agreement to reimburse the village for any
and all costs of staff time and outside consultants required to review such
application, and provided further, however, that the approval of such
applications shall be at the discretion of the village, and shall in all cases
be subject to such conditions as the village deems necessary to protect the
public safety and public infrastructure of the village.
   (D)   False permit application or failure to provide information. Any
applicant that submits any false, fraudulent or materially misleading permit
application or who fails to provide all information required in connection with
the permit application in an effort to induce the village to issue an
overweight or overdimension permit shall be fined in an amount not less than
$1,000 per day for each day during which movements were made or could have been
made under the terms shown on the face of such permit, and shall be ineligible
to apply for or obtain overweight or overdimension permits for a period of one
year following a conviction for a violation of this provision.
   (E)   Fees. The applicable permit fees for the issuance of overweight or
overdimension permits under this section shall be as set forth from time to
time in §
43.04.
   (F)   Special conditions applicable to travel over 135th Street bridges.
      (1)   In addition to the conditions set forth in the general permit
conditions included within Appendix A to this chapter, any permit issued for
movements over the 135th Street bridges shall be deemed to incorporate the
following additional special conditions, as if fully set forth on the face of
such permit.
         (a)   No vehicles or pedestrians may be present on the bridge during
any such movement. Applicant
shall be responsible for arranging and paying for the cost of Village Police
Department officers to provide traffic control in connection with such
movements.
         (b)   No such movement shall be made at a speed in excess of ten mph
over any bridge structure.
         (c)   The vehicle conducting the permitted movement shall traverse the
bridge structure on the centerline of the bridge deck to distribute the load
transversely.
      (2)   All applications for permits for movements over the 135th Street
bridges shall be subject to review by the Department of Public Works.
   (G)   Limited continuous operation permits. Certain overweight/overdimension
permits are eligible to be issued as overdimension permits. Permit applicants
are eligible to apply for overweight/overdimension permits as limited
continuous operation permits for overdimension loads/vehicles up to 12 feet
width, 13 feet six inch height and 65 feet length and overweight vehicles/loads
that comply with the template vehicles shown in
Appendix C to this chapter. No limited continuous operation permits shall be
issued for movements involving the bridges and structures on 135th Street. A
limited continuous operation permit authorizes two round trip movements per
day, or four single trip movements per day. Excess movements beyond these
limits are violations of the permit, and are subject to enforcement under §
75.99(D) and (E), with such excess movements being respectively deemed to
constitute movements with weight or dimension in excess of that allowed by the
permit.
(Prior Code, § 76.15) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 75.16 DESIGNATED TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, and except as
hereinafter set forth in this section, and unless otherwise posted by signage
authorized by duly adopted ordinances of the village, no person shall operate
any vehicle or combination of vehicles in excess of five tons gross weight,
including the load.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   The following streets, road and highways of the village
are designated as truck routes within the village, and trucks and other
vehicles shall be permitted to operate on such routes in compliance with the
maximum weights and dimensions hereinabove set forth in this chapter, and
further to operate on such routes in compliance with a validly issued
overweight or overdimension permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter:
115th Street
135th Street (Romeo Road) east of Independence Boulevard to New Avenue
Airport Road from Southcreek Parkway to Weber Road
Anderson Drive
Anton Drive
Arbor Drive
Belmont Drive, east of Illinois Route 53
Belmont Drive, west of Illinois Route 53, between Taylor Road and Com Ed right-
of-way
Bluff Road, east of Joliet Road, to village limits
Bluff Road, west of Joliet Road
Chambers Drive
Chicago Tube Drive
Crossroads Parkway
Devonwood Avenue
Enterprise Drive
Forestwood Drive
Greenwood Avenue
Innovation Drive
Lakeside Drive
Lakeview Drive
Marquette Drive
Montrose Drive, east of Route 53
Naperville Drive, between village limits and Enterprise Drive
Naperville Drive from Marquette Drive to Enterprise Drive
Normantown Road, east of Weber to Crossroads Parkway
Normantown Road from Crossroads Parkway to Weber Road
Normantown Road, west of Weber Road to Wheatland/Plainfield Township line
Oakridge Drive
O’Hare Drive
Parkwood Avenue
Phelps Avenue, east of Illinois Route 53
Pinnacle Drive, from Com Ed right-of-way south to current terminus south of
Airport Road (Note: Pinnacle Drive has not yet been fully constructed from
Airport Road north to approximately 145 South Pinnacle Drive)
Prologis Parkway
Remington Boulevard
Ridgewood Avenue
Rocbaar Drive
Schmidt Road, from Naperville Drive to village limits
Southcreek Parkway from Taylor Road to Airport Road
Taylor Road from Independence Boulevard to Weber Road
Windham Parkway
 
         (b)   A map of the aforesaid designated truck routes is set forth in
Appendix B to this chapter.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the aforesaid designation of truck routes, certain
portions of specific streets or roads within such designated truck routes are
designated as “truck route exclusions.” No permit issued under this chapter
shall be valid to authorize the movement of any vehicle or load over, across or
upon any portion of a village street or road designated as a truck route
      (3)   Exclusion in violation of the prohibition or restriction of the
usage thereof as posted by appropriate signage installed by the Department of
Public Works and as depicted in
Appendix B to this chapter.
      (4)   The Director of Public Works shall be authorized and directed to
place appropriate signage on village roads, streets, highways and bridges and
structures as necessary from time to time to advise of the applicable weight
limits thereon as established by this chapter.
   (C)   Overweight and overdimension permits issued under the provisions of §
75.15 shall only be valid for vehicle movements on the designated truck routes
hereinabove set forth in division (B) above and as depicted on the designated
truck route map included as Appendix B to this chapter; subject further,
however, to the truck route exclusions set forth below and in
Appendix B and as indicated by posted signage.
   (D)   The Director of Public Works shall cause appropriate signage to be
placed at the entrances to the village roads, highways and streets set forth in
division (E) below and designated and depicted in
Appendix B to this chapter as truck route exclusions, advising that truck
traffic is either strictly prohibited or strictly regulated on such roads,
highways and streets, and that the applicable fines for violations of this
chapter occurring within such streets shall be at double the fine amounts
applicable to violations of this chapter occurring outside of the village
roads, highways and streets set forth in division (E) below and designated and
depicted in
Appendix B to this chapter as truck route exclusions.
   (E)   The following structures/locations are designated as truck route
exclusions from the truck routes otherwise designated by division (B) above,
and any permit otherwise validly issued under this chapter for movement over
any of such structures/locations shall be subject to the additional
prohibitions, conditions or restrictions noted below.
      (1)   Village-owned culverts on Parkwood Avenue. No vehicle and load
having a gross weight in excess of 80,000 pounds shall be permitted to travel
over the village-owned culverts on Parkwood Avenue, and these structures/
locations shall be deemed to be excluded from any permit otherwise validly
issued under this chapter.
      (2)   Village-owned culverts on Town Hall Drive. No vehicle and load
having a gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds shall be permitted to travel
over the village-owned culverts on Town Hall Drive, and these structures shall
be deemed to be excluded from any permit otherwise validly issued under this
chapter.
      (3)   135th Street bridges (current 135th Street). No vehicle and load
having a gross weight in excess of 80,000 pounds shall be eligible to receive a
permit under this chapter authorizing such movement without the approval of the
Village Department of Public Works, and any such permit shall be deemed to
incorporate the special conditions set forth in §
75.14.
      (4)   Old Romeo Road/135th Street bridge beneath current high-level
bridge. No vehicle and load having a gross weight in excess of 80,000 pounds as
posted at or upon the Old Romeo Road/135th Street bridge shall be permitted to
move upon or travel upon the same, and no permit issued under this chapter
shall be valid to authorize any such movement.
      (5)   Airport Road culvert (Mink Creek, east of Amaryllis Drive/Richfield
Trail). Note: This location is not within a truck route designated by this
chapter, and movement through or at this location is subject to the provisions
of division (A) above. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, and without
otherwise authorizing any such movement, in no event shall any permit be issued
under this chapter for any movement of a vehicle and load in excess of 80,000
pounds gross weight without the approval of the Department of Public Works.
      (6)   Village-owned culverts on Forestwood Drive. No vehicle and load
having a gross weight in excess of 80,000 pounds shall be permitted to travel
over the village-owned culverts on Forestwood Avenue, and these structures/
locations shall be deemed to be excluded from any permit otherwise validly
issued under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 76.16) (Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 25-1964, passed 2-
5-2025) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Overweight vehicles of 80,000 pounds or less gross weight. Any person
who operates a vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the maximum weight
limit applicable to the village road, street or highway in question as
established by this chapter without having in their possession a valid permit
issued under this chapter authorizing the same shall be fined not less than
$500, up to a maximum fine amount of $1,000; provided, however, that in the
event that the vehicle in question has a gross weight in excess of 80,000
pounds, the fine for such a violation shall be calculated in accordance with
division (B) below.
   (B)   Overweight vehicles equal to or over 80,000 pounds gross weight;
overweight on axle.
      (1)   Any person who without a permit issued under this chapter operates
a vehicle with a gross weight in excess of 80,000 pounds and the prescribed
weight limits established by this code, or within axle weight in excess of the
axle weight limitations established by this chapter in addition to any other
fines and penalties as provided by law or ordinance, shall be subject to the
fines and penalties as follows: whenever any vehicle is operated in violation
of the provisions of §§
75.08 or
75.16, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of such
violation and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted
for such violation. Any person charged with a violation of any of these
provisions who pleads not guilty shall be present in court for the trial on the
charge. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of any violation of §§
75.08 or
75.16, as enforced by the village, including, but not limited to, a maximum
axle or gross limit specified on a regulatory sign posted in accordance with
this chapter, in addition to any court costs and fees, shall be fined according
to the following schedule:
Pounds Overweight Fine
Pounds Overweight         Fine
Up to and including 2,000 $100
From 2,001 through 2,500  $270
From 2,501 through 3,000  $330
From 3,001 through 3,500  $520
From 3,501 through 4,000  $600
From 4,001 through 4,500  $850
From 4,501 through 5,000  $950
                          The fine shall be computed by assessing $1,500 for
From 5,001 or more        the first 5,000 pounds overweight and $150 for each
                          additional increment of 500 pounds overweight or
                          fraction thereof
 
      (2)   In addition, any person, firm or corporation convicted of four or
more violations of §§
75.08 or
75.16 within any 12-month period shall be fined an additional amount of $5,000
for the fourth and each subsequent conviction within the 12-month period;
provided, however, that with regard to a firm or corporation, a fourth or
subsequent conviction shall mean a fourth or subsequent conviction attributable
to any one employee-driver.
   (C)   Overdimension vehicles. Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation
of the provisions of §§
75.03,
75.04 or
75.05, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of such
violation and either may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person, firm or
corporation convicted of any violation of §§
75.03,
75.04 or
75.05 shall be fined for the first or second conviction an amount equal to not
less than $150, nor more than $500, and for the third and subsequent
convictions by the same person, firm or corporation within a period of one year
after the date of the first offense, not less than $500, nor more than $1,000.
   (D)   Overweight vehicles with weight in excess of weight authorized by
permit.
      (1)   Overweight on axle. Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation
of the provisions of a permit issued under the provisions of this chapter by
operating with axle weights in excess of those authorized in such permit, the
owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
chapter and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted
for such violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of such violation
shall be fined in an amount not less than $0.02 nor more than $0.05 per pound
for each pound of excess weight on such axle or tandem axle in excess of the
weight authorized in the permit when the excess is 1,000 pounds or less; not
less than $0.05 nor more than $0.10 per pound for each pound of excess weight
when the excess exceeds 1,000 pounds and is 2,000 pounds or less; not less than
$0.10 nor more than $0.15 per pound for each pound of excess weight when the
excess exceeds 2,000 pounds and is 3,000 pounds or less; and not less than
$0.15 nor more than $0.20 per pound for each pound of excess weight when the
excess exceeds 3,000 pounds. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of three
or more violations of this division (D)(1) shall be ineligible to apply for or
receive any permits under this chapter for a period of one year following the
date of the third conviction.
      (2)   Gross weight in excess of permit weight. Whenever any vehicle is
operated in violation of the provisions of a permit issued under the provisions
of this chapter by operating with the gross weight in excess of that authorized
in such permit, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this chapter and either the owner or the driver of such vehicle
may be prosecuted for such violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted
of such violation shall be fined in an amount not less than $0.02 nor more than
$0.05 per pound for each pound of excess weight in excess of the gross weight
authorized in the permit when the excess is 1,000 pounds or less; not less than
$0.04 nor more than $0.07 per pound for each pound of excess weight when the
excess exceeds 1,000 pounds and is 2,000 pounds or less; not less than $0.07
nor more than $0.10 per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess
exceeds 2,000 pounds and is 3,000 pounds or less; not less than $0.10 nor more
than $0.15 per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds
3,000 pounds and is 4,000 pounds or less; not less than $0.15 nor more than
$0.20 per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds 4,000
pounds and is 5,000 pounds or less; and not less than $0.17 nor more than $0.25
per pound for each pound of excess weight when the excess exceeds 5,000 pounds.
Any person, firm or corporation convicted of three or more violations of this
division (D)(2) shall be ineligible to apply for or receive any permits under
this chapter for a period of one year following the date of the third
conviction.
   (E)   Overdimension vehicles/loads in violation of permit. Whenever any
vehicle/load for which an overdimension permit has been issued is operated in
violation of the dimensions authorized in the penult, the owner or driver of
the vehicle shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter, and subject to a
fine of not less than $500 nor more than $1,000. Any person convicted of three
or more violations of this division (E) shall be ineligible to apply for or
receive any permits under this chapter for a period of one year following the
date of the third conviction.
   (F)   Other violations. Any other violations of this chapter not otherwise
provided for in this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
$150 but not more than $750.
   (G)   Violations within areas designated and depicted in Appendix B as truck
route exclusions. Any violation of this chapter occurring within the village
roads, streets and highways designated in Appendix B to this chapter as truck
route exclusions shall be subject to a fine, the amount of which shall be
double the amount of the fine for such violation determined as if such
violation had not occurred within the village roads, streets and highways
designated in Appendix B to this chapter as truck route exclusions.
(Prior Code, § 76.99)
   (H)   Temporary restrictions on highway use. When any vehicle is operated in
violation of §
75.14, the owner or driver of the vehicle shall be deemed guilty of a violation
and either the owner or the driver of the vehicle may be prosecuted for the
violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of violating §
75.14 shall be fined $50 for any weight exceeding the posted limit up to the
applicable axle or gross weight limits allowed by §
75.08 and $75 per every 500 pounds or fraction thereof for any weight in excess
of the applicable axle or gross weight limits allowed by §
75.08.
(Prior Code, § 76.14)
(Ord. 17-1385, passed 6-21-2017)
APPENDIX A: SPECIAL MOVEMENT PERMIT
 
   VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE
   OVERSIZE-OVERWEIGHT VEHICLE MOVEMENT PROVISIONS
READ YOUR PERMIT BEFORE STARTING YOUR MOVE. If you find the permit does not
cover the move, is incorrect or in error, contact the Village of Romeoville
(Village) prior to starting the move. Undertaking the move is prima facie
evidence of acceptance of the permit.
THIS FORM IS PART OF YOUR PERMIT: The conditions and restrictions listed in
this form govern the movement of vehicles or objects authorized by a written
permit issued by Village under Chapter 75 of the Village Code of Ordinances.
The conditions and restrictions specified are a part of the permit as though
written in detail in the transmittal.
PERMIT TO ACCOMPANY MOVEMENT: The driver of the vehicle shall have the permit,
in written or electronic form, in their possession during the movement and
shall show said permit, on demand, to any police officer or authorized employee
of the Village. The permit covers only the person or firm designated as
permittee and is not transferable.
AGREEMENT: The acceptance of the permit by the permittee constitutes an
agreement that the movement will be made strictly in compliance with the terms
set forth in the permit and the applicable provisions of Chapter 75 of the
Village Code of Ordinances.
AUTHORIZED TIMES OF MOVEMENT: Over dimension permit loads with dimensions equal
to or less than 12’ wide, 13’6” high, 65’ long are authorized to move from 1/
2 hour before sunrise until 1/2 hour after sunset, 7 days a week. Over
dimension permit loads with dimensions greater than 12’ wide, 13’6” high, 65’
long are authorized from 1/2 hour before sunrise to 1/2 hour after sunset
Monday through Friday, and from 1/2 hour before sunrise until noon, Saturday
(unless specified otherwise on the provision sheet or permit). Overweight
permit loads with legal dimensions are allowed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week
movement. Movements may be further restricted on specific holidays and holiday
weekends and to accommodate specific local traffic movements (i.e. school
buses).
AXLE SPACINGS: The spacing requirements for all overweight loaded routine &
excess overweight permits, as well as, all towed routine permits are as set
forth in Appendix C to Chapter 75 of the Village Code of Ordinances. All towed
permits that do not meet these minimum spacing requirements will be processed
within the Village as an excess overweight permit.
CONTAINERS FOR INTERNATIONAL SHIPPING: To be considered a non-divisible load
and eligible to be hauled under a Village permit, a shipping container must be
sealed for international shipment and in route for import or export to/from a
foreign country. Upon request from law enforcement, the driver must present
documentation, such as a bill of lading or manifest that specifically ties the
container being moved to the container listed in the documentation through the
unique container number (consists of 4 letters and 7 numbers). The
documentation must also clearly state the foreign country destination or origin
of that container. Failure to produce such documentation may result in the load
being considered a divisible load and ineligible to be permitted by the
Village. As a result, the load may be considered to be running without a permit
and subject to be fined back to legal weight.
DISCLAIMER: Due to variations in length of vehicles, inclines, curve radii, and
other road conditions and factors, the Village does not guarantee and the
permittee cannot assume the posted height or width is adequate for the
movement. It is also the sole responsibility of the permittee, when not in
conformance with 625 ILCS 5/11-1203(a) of the Illinois Vehicle Code, to inspect
all railroad grade crossings for clearance along the permitted route to a move.
Said permittee assumes sole liability should posted height or width or railroad
grade crossing clearances prove inadequate. Village may require indemnification
from said permittee for any and all damages or claims incurred from inadequate
clearance.
FLASHING OR ROTATING AMBER LIGHT: All loads must display an operable
oscillating, rotating or flashing amber light(s) when moving under oversize/
overweight permit authority. If the load blocks visibility of the amber light
(s) from the rear, a light must be displayed at the rear of the vehicle.
HIGHWAY CONDITIONS IN INCLEMENT WEATHER: Moves shall not be made when highway
is covered with snow or ice, or when visibility is unduly impaired by rain,
snow, fog, smog, or at any time travel conditions are considered to be unsafe.
To view road conditions go to www.gettingaroundillinois.com and click on winter
road conditions link.
JURISDICTION: The permit is effective only insofar as the Village has
jurisdiction and does not release the permittee from complying with other
existing laws that may apply to the movement.
LEGAL HEIGHT MOVEMENTS: Permit authority is not required for the movement of
vehicle(s), inclusive of load, not exceeding the legal height limitation of
13’6” as established in Chapter 76 of this code and in Chapter 15 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (“IVC”), 625 ILCS 5/. Therefore, no action is taken by
the Village, either separately or in conjunction with authorizing an otherwise
oversize or overweight movement, to ensure adequate clearance of structures for
a vehicle(s), inclusive of load, not exceeding 13’6” overall height.
LIABILITY INSURANCE: Owners and/or operators of escort vehicles with oversize
loads exceeding 10’ in width, 13”6” in height, 65” in length or overweight must
have in effect or be self-insured in the amount of $500,000 per occurrence
combined bodily injury and property damage.
LOCATIONS WHERE PERMIT IS NOT VALID: The permit is not valid on any highway or
bridge posted for a load limit less than the gross weight of the move, on any
highway closed to traffic, and on any highway not maintained by the Village,
the right to use highways other than those specified is neither implied nor
granted for non-Village jurisdiction routes. The permittee must obtain
permission from the proper State or local authority to use State highways or
local streets or from the Illinois Tollway if traveling over the Tollway.
Additionally, please note that this permit shall either be invalid to permit
vehicle movement or subject to specific restrictions in areas posted as and
designated in Appendix B to Chapter 75 of the Village Code as Truck Route
Excisions.
NON-DIVISIBLE LOADS: Permits are only valid for non-divisible loads or
vehicles, as defined in the Code. Multiple objects shall not be loaded in such
a way that causes the legal weight, height, width, and length to be exceeded.
OVERWEIGHT MOVEMENTS: An overweight permit authorizes the movement of a vehicle
or a reasonably disassembled single object loaded on a vehicle combination. The
object may include an attachment, however, it must be securely mounted on the
object being moved. The attachment may not be hauled as a separate object on
the vehicle combination.
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE LIABILITY: The permittee assumes all responsibility for
injury to persons or damage to public or private property, including his own,
caused directly or indirectly by the transportation of vehicles or vehicles and
objects authorized under this permit. The permittee agrees to hold the Village
harmless from all suits, claims, damages or proceedings of any kind and to
indemnify the Village for any claim it may be required to pay arising from the
movement.
RESTRICTIONS FOR IDOT AND ILLINOIS TOLL AUTHORITY BRIDGE: Bridges over
interstate Highways are the jurisdiction of IDOT, bridges over Illinois Tollway
are the jurisdiction of the Illinois Toll Authority (630-241-6800). A listing
of structures can be found online at www.gettingaroundillinois.com under the
truck permits route map or a listing is available at www.dot.it.gov/road/
overweight.html under the overweight heading.
RESTRICTIONS ON MOVEMENTS: All movements made under authority of permits not
specifying routes shall exercise due caution to prevent unauthorized use of any
structure, highway, temporary route detour, runaround or turnaround. Posted max
width, height, speed, gross weight or other restrictions shall be observed.
RIGHT-OF-WAY DURING MOVEMENT: insofar as practicable and except as otherwise
required by Chapter 75, movements shall be confined to a single lane and shall
be made in such a manner that the rest of the roadway will be open at all times
so the flow of other traffic will not unnecessarily be obstructed. Also,
insofar as practicable, other traffic will be given the right-of-way over this
movement. The driver shall remove the vehicle from the roadway when necessary
to allow an accumulation of traffic to pass or when so directed by a police
officer.
SPEED: Maximum speeds shall be 5 m.p.h. below the posted speed limit, EXCEPT
when otherwise specified in the permit. Legal weight, legal height movements up
to and including 10 feet wide are allows to travel at the legal maximum speed
limit.
OVERDIMENSION PROVISIONS
ESCORT VEHICLES: Civilian escorts and Village of Romeoville Police escorts may
be required for any movement that exceeds legal dimensions as follows: 1)
exceed 8’6” wide, or 2) 13’6” high, or 3) exceed 65’ long., The roadway
geometries and length of haul will be considered. As an absolute minimum, the
following will be required:
One civilian escort is required for all moves that 1) exceed 14’6” wide, or 2)
exceed 14’6” high, or 3) exceed 110’ long.
Two civilian escorts, one in front of the load and one behind, are required for
all moves that have a combination of two or more of the following: dimensions:
1) exceed 14’6” wide, or 2) exceed 14’6” high, or 3) exceed 110’ long.
Three civilian escorts, are required for all moves that 1) exceed 16’ wide, or
2) exceed 145’ long or if the load 3) exceeds 18’ high.
Village of Romeoville Police escorts are required for all moves that 1) exceed
18’ high, or 2) exceed 18’ wide, or 3) exceed 200’ long and must be set up 24
hours before moving.
For all escort requirements see Sections 554.407 and 554.408 in the IDOT Policy
Book, see 92 I.A.C. §§ 554.407 and 554.408.
EXCEPTIONS TO LEGAL LIMITATIONS: Consult Chapter 75 of the Village Code of
Ordinances.
HOUSE TRAILERS: The overall width of the house trailer includes doorknobs,
awnings, or any other attachments. The towing unit of house trailers over 8’
but not more than 10’ wide shall be at least a 3/4 ton truck. The towing unit
of house trailers over 10’ wide but not more than 12’ wide and less than 115’
long shall be at least a 1 ton truck with dual wheels. The towing unit of house
trailers over 12’ wide shall be at least a 2 ton truck with dual wheels.
Movement of house trailers over 12’ wide is prohibited when wind gusts exceed
25 m.p.h.
OVERLENGTH OBJECTS: Movements of objects over 80’ in length shall be equipped
with two operating flashing amber lights-one over the cab of the vehicle; the
other within 10’ of the rear object, mounted as high as practicable over it.
OVERSIZE LOAD SIGNS: OVERSIZE LOAD signs are mandatory on the front and rear of
vehicles for loads over 10’ wide, or 14’6” high, or 75’ long.
RED FLAGS: The extremities of all oversize vehicles, vehicle combinations or
loads, and all protruding objects shall be marked with clean red flags not less
than 18’ square.
SPECIAL CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO MOVEMENTS ON 135th STREET BRIDGES/STRUCTURES
AND AIRPORT ROAD BRIDGES/STRUCTURES: any permit issued for movements over the
135th Street Bridges/Structures or the Airport Road Bridges/Structures shall be
deemed to incorporate the following additional special conditions, as if fully
set forth on the face of such permit:
   (1)   No vehicles or pedestrians may be present on the bridge or structure
during any such movement. Applicant shall be responsible for arranging and
paying for the cost of Romeoville Police Department officers to provide traffic
control in connection with such movements.
   (2)   No such movement shall be made at a speed in excess of 10 miles per
hour over any bridge or structure.
   (3)   The vehicle conducting the permitted movement shall traverse the
bridge or structure on the centerline of the bridge/structure deck to
distribute the load transversely.
LIMITED CONTINUOUS OPERATION PERMITS: Limited continuous operations permits are
limited to the duration specified in the permit (90 days or one year), are only
available for overdimension loads/vehicles up to 12’ width, 13’6” height and
65’ length, and overweight vehicles/loads that comply with the template
vehicles shown in Appendix C to Chapter 75. No limited continuous operation
permits shall be issued for movements involving the bridges and structures on
135th Street or Airport Road. A limited continuous operation permit authorizes
two round trip movements per day, or four single trip movements per day. Excess
movement: beyond these limits are violations of the permit and of
Chapter 75.
WARNING—DOUBLE FINE ZONES: Drivers/permit applicants are advised that
overweight permits will either not be issued or valid for areas depicted in
Appendix B to Chapter 75 as Truck Route Exclusions, or that special conditions
and restrictions may apply as set forth in
Chapter 75. Drivers stopped and ticketed in these areas for violations of
Chapter 75 will be subject to a fine amount of double the otherwise applicable
line amount.
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, App. A)
APPENDIX B: TRUCK ROUTE DESIGNATION AND TRUCK ROUTE EXCLUSIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4575.png]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, App. A)
APPENDIX C: TEMPLATE VEHICLES FOR MAXIMUM OVERWEIGHT PERMIT WEIGHTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4577.png]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, App. A)
CHAPTER 76: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
76.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic-control devices and traffic regulations
   
76.02   Pedestrian obedience to bridge and railroad signals
   
76.03   Pedestrians’ right-of-way at crosswalks
   
76.04   Pedestrians to use right-half of crosswalks
   
76.05   Pedestrians crossing at other than crosswalks
   
76.06   Pedestrians’ right-of-way on sidewalks
   
76.07   Pedestrian with disabilities; right-of-way
   
76.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
76.09   Pedestrians to yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
76.10   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
76.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
76.12   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
76.13   Motorized wheelchairs
   
76.14   Electrical personal assistive mobility devices
 
   
76.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
   Traffic-control devices, see §§
70.20 through
70.30
§ 76.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to them unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   (1)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control
signals provided in §§
70.21 and
70.22.
      (2)   At all other places, pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges
and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1001) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.02 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall enter, remain upon or traverse over a railroad
grade crossing or pedestrian walkway crossing a railroad track when an audible
bell or clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device is operational
giving warning of the presence, approach, passage or departure of a railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   (D)   The village shall impose fines as established in §
76.99 for pedestrians who fail to obey signals indicating the presence,
approach, passage or departure of a train of railroad track equipment.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1011) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.03 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
      (2)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
      (3)   Division (A)(1) above shall not apply under the condition stated in
§
76.05(B).
      (4)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
      (5)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.048.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1002)
   (B)   For the purpose of this division (B), SCHOOL has the meaning ascribed
to that term in 625 ILCS 5/11-605.
      (1)   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic and when traffic control signals are not in place or not in
operation, the driver of a vehicle shall stop and yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (B), a school day shall begin at
7:00 a.m. and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
      (3)   This division (B) shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs
are posted in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-605.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1002.5)
Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.04 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1005) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05 PEDESTRIANS CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
right-of-way to all vehicles on the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles on the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
   (E)   Pedestrians with disabilities may cross a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk where the
intersection is physically inaccessible to them but they shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles on the roadway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1003) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.06 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians on a
sidewalk.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1008) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.07 PEDESTRIAN WITH DISABILITIES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any blind, hearing-
impaired or physically handicapped pedestrian carrying a clearly visible white
cane or accompanied by a support or guide dog.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1004) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E) below, where a sidewalk is provided
and its use is practicable, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (E) below, where a sidewalk is not
available, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall walk only on a
shoulder, as far as practicable from the edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, where neither a sidewalk nor
a shoulder is available, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall
walk as near as practicable to an outside edge of a roadway, and, if on a two-
way roadway, shall walk only on the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   (1)   Upon highways where the maximum posted speed limit is 45 mph or
less, and during the period from sunrise to sunset, a pedestrian who is 18
years of age or older and wearing in-line speed skates may travel upon the
roadway as near as practicable to an outside edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Pedestrians wearing in-line speed skates upon a roadway may not
impede or obstruct other vehicular traffic.
      (3)   Pedestrians wearing in-line speed skates shall be subject to all
other rights and duties under 625 ILCS 5/11-1001 et seq.
      (4)   Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent a pedestrian
wearing in-line speed skates from using a lane designated for bicycles.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1007) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.09 PEDESTRIANS TO YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of 625 ILCS 5/12-
601, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the authorized
emergency vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1009) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.10 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, unless expressly permitted by
this code. The village shall determine by ordinance where and when
solicitations may take place based on the safety of the solicitors and the
safety of motorists. The decision shall also take into account the orderly flow
of traffic and may not allow interference with the operation of official
traffic-control devices. Any person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be
16 years of age or more and shall be wearing a high visibility vest. The
soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by the Solicitation for Charity Act, 225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq.;
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fundraising activity; and
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1006(a)—(d)) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders themself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway, except on
a sidewalk.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1010) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.12 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated or
intoxicated person.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1003.1) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1004.1)
§ 76.14 ELECTRICAL PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   Every person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device upon a
sidewalk or roadway has all the rights and is subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit or
preempt the authority of any home rule or non-home rule unit of local
government from regulating or prohibiting the use of electric personal
assistive mobility devices.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1005.1)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §
76.02 is a petty offense for which a $250 fine shall be imposed for a first
violation, and a $500 fine shall be imposed for a second or subsequent
violation. The court may impose 25 hours of community service in place of the
$250 fine for a first violation.
      (2)   Local authorities shall impose fines as established in division (B)
(1) above for pedestrians who fail to obey signals indicating the presence,
approach, passage or departure of a train or railroad track equipment.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1011)
   (C)   A first violation of §
76.03(A) is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $150. A second or subsequent
violation of §
76.03(A) is a petty offense with a minimum fine of $300.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1002.5)
   (D)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of §
76.10 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1006(e))
CHAPTER 77: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
Bicycles
   
77.01   Application of regulations
   
77.02   Bicycle defined
   
77.03   Equipment
   
77.04   Passengers on bicycles
   
77.05   Riding on right
   
77.06   Bikeway availability
   
77.07   Signals for indicating turns
   
77.08   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
77.09   Riding on sidewalk
   
77.10   Clinging to moving vehicles; towing
   
77.11   Endangering persons or property; excessive speed
   
77.12   Traffic-control devices
   
77.13   Riding single file
   
77.14   Transporting articles or goods
   
77.15   Parking
   
77.16   Duty of parent or guardian
Motorcycles
   
77.30   Lamps on mopeds
   
77.31   Riding on mopeds
   
77.32   Riding on motorcycles
   
77.33   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles, motor driven cycles
or mopeds
   
77.34   Required equipment on motorcycles
   
77.35   Operating motorcycle on one wheel
 
   
77.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
Statutory reference:
   For state law provisions governing bicycles, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1501 through
11-1507
**** BICYCLES ****
§ 77.01 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Each person riding a bicycle on a roadway or on any bikeway set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor vehicle under
this subchapter, except as to special regulations in this subchapter and except
as to those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 78.01) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974)
§ 77.02 BICYCLE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE.
      (1)   A light-weight vehicle with two tandem wheels, neither of which are
less than 14 inches in diameter, with solid or pneumatic tires; having a
steering wheel or steering bar and a saddle seat or seats; and propelled by the
feet acting on treadles connected to cranks or levers.
      (2)   Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
(Prior Code, § 78.02) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974)
§ 77.03 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle during the hours of darkness unless
it is equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving an audible signal
for a distance of at least 100 feet. No bicycle shall be equipped with nor
shall any person use on a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be ridden on any street during a period from sunset
to sunrise without displaying at least one white lamp visible from a distance
of 500 feet to the front of the bicycle and with a red reflector on the rear
with a minimum diameter of two inches. A lamp admitting a red light visible
from a distance of 500 feet may be used in lieu of a red reflector.
   (C)   Each bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which shall enable the
operator to make the back wheels skid on a dry, level and clear pavement and
any other equipment required to meet the standard specifications in this
section and those of the Chief of Police.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle that is not equipped with a red
reflex reflector on the rear conforming to the specifications prescribed by the
State Department of Transportation or its successor agency, and that is not
equipped with a clear reflex reflector conforming to the specifications
prescribed by the State Department of Transportation on the front of the
bicycle.
   (E)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the State Department of Transportation or its successor agency, on each
pedal, visible from the front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a
distance of 200 feet.
   (F)   (1)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet and shall be red to the rear of the
center of the bicycle and amber to the front of the bicycle. The reflectors
shall also conform to the specifications prescribed by the State Department of
Transportation or its successor agency.
      (2)   No persons shall sell or offer for sale bicycle side reflectors
that do not conform to the specifications prescribed by the State Department of
Transportation or its successor agency.
(Prior Code, § 78.03) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.04 PASSENGERS ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to ride other
than on or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or to carry
any other person on the bicycle other than on a firmly-attached and regular
seat thereon.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 78.04) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.05 RIDING ON RIGHT.
   Each person operating a bicycle on a roadway shall ride as near to the
right-hand side of the roadway as is practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(Prior Code, § 78.05) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.06 BIKEWAY AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   Wherever a usable path or surface has been provided for bicycles
adjacent to a roadway and designated by traffic-control devices, bicycle riders
shall use the path or surface and shall not use the roadway except when the
path is obstructed, unsafe or not lawful.
   (B)   A cyclist shall not be required to leave the roadway for a bikeway
when doing so would be unsafe.
(Prior Code, § 78.06) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.07 SIGNALS FOR INDICATING TURNS.
   Bicycle operators shall signify their intention to turn by using the same
hand signals as operators of motor vehicles, unless the bicycle is equipped
with functioning mechanical or electrical turn signal devices, in which case
such devices may be used.
(Prior Code, § 78.07) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.08 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, on approaching a sidewalk area extending across an alleyway, yield the
right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk areas
and on entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 78.08) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.09 RIDING ON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle on a sidewalk
within a business district. The Chief of Police or their duly-authorized agent
shall be authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the
riding of bicycles thereon by any person and when the signs are in place, no
person shall disobey them. The location of the signs shall be determined by
resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall have the right-of-way at all times over bicycles. A
person riding a bicycle on a sidewalk or sidewalk crossing shall either turn
off the sidewalk when meeting or passing pedestrians or shall dismount until
the pedestrians have passed.
(Prior Code, § 78.09) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.10 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES; TOWING.
   (A)   No person riding a bicycle on any street shall cling to or attach
themself or their bicycle to any moving vehicle on any roadway nor shall any
person hook any object on or to anything from their bicycle.
   (B)   No person may tow an object, trailer or cart unless it is designed for
bicycle towing and does not create undue hazard.
   (C)   No person may attach electronic devices to bicycles that interfere
with safe operation.
(Prior Code, § 78.10) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.11 ENDANGERING PERSONS OR PROPERTY; EXCESSIVE SPEED.
   (A)   No bicycle shall be ridden at any time, at any place or in any manner
so as to be dangerous to any person or property. No person shall operate a
bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing. Reckless driving or swerving in and out of traffic is
prohibited.
   (B)   A cyclist shall not exceed posted speed limits or unsafe speeds. The
municipal code may define specific “maximum reasonable speed” in designated
areas (e.g., parks, trails) if desired.
(Prior Code, § 78.11) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.12 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control devices applicable to vehicles unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right
turn, left turn or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall
disobey the direction of the sign, except where the person dismounts from the
bicycle to make any turn, in which event the person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   (B)   At “no turn on red” intersections, a bicyclist may dismount and cross
like a pedestrian if pedestrian signal allows.
(Prior Code, § 78.12) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.13 RIDING SINGLE FILE.
   All persons riding bicycles shall ride single file at all times.
(Prior Code, § 78.13) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.14 TRANSPORTING ARTICLES OR GOODS.
   (A)   All articles or goods being transported by a person operating a
bicycle shall be placed in a basket, saddlebag or carrier constructed or
manufactured for that purpose.
   (B)   Cargo bicycles or bikes with built-in compartments are permitted, so
long as the load is stable and does not exceed safe design limits.
(Prior Code, § 78.14) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.15 PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a bicycle on a street. Bicycles may only be
parked on sidewalks in a manner so as to afford the least obstruction to
pedestrian traffic. Parking racks must be used where provided.
   (B)   Whenever any bicycle is found to be parked in violation of this
subchapter the police officers of the village shall conspicuously attach to the
bicycle a notice on a form provided by the village. The notice shall contain
the registration or serial number of the bicycle. It shall instruct the owner
or operator thereof that the vehicle has been parked in violation of a
provision of this subchapter and it shall advise the owner or operator thereof
of the penalty provided therefore and the method of paying the penalty within
seven days from the time of the issuance of the notice.
   (C)   Any owner or operator of a bicycle may settle and compromise the claim
against them for illegal parking by paying to the village $30 for each offense
within seven days of the time the alleged offense was committed. A receipt
shall be issued for all money so received and the money shall be promptly
turned over to the Village Treasurer. In the event the person to whom the
notice is issued fails to settle and pay the violation claim within the
prescribed time or within a time specified in a final notice, if one is served
on them, then the Police Department is authorized to file a complaint and to
prosecute the offense in the Circuit Court, in which case said violation shall
be punishable by the fine provided in §
77.99.
(Prior Code, § 78.15) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974; Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-
1996) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.16 DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   No parent of any minor child or the guardian of any ward shall authorize or
knowingly permit the child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 78.16) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974) Penalty, see §
77.99
**** MOTORCYCLES ****
§ 77.30 LAMPS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by
the Department which shall be visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600
feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful, lower beams of headlamps on
a motor vehicle, except that a lamp emitting a steady or flashing red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to or
instead of the red reflector.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1507.1) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.31 RIDING ON MOPEDS.
   (A)   The operator of a moped shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit two persons to ride thereon
at the same time, unless the moped is designed to carry two persons; any moped
designed for two persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests
for use of a passenger.
   (B)   The provisions of §§
77.01 through
77.09 shall be applicable to the operation of mopeds, except for those
provisions which by their nature can have no application to mopeds.
(Prior Code, § 78.26) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1403.1
§ 77.32 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebar grips higher
than the height of the head of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
   (D)   The operator of any motorcycle shall keep at least one hand on a
handlebar grip at all times the motorcycle is in motion.
   (E)   The operator of a motorcycle may not transport a passenger unless the
passenger is capable of resting a foot on the footrest while the motorcycle is
in motion.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1403) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.33 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES
OR MOPEDS.
   (A)   The operator of a motorcycle, motor driven cycle or moped and every
passenger thereon shall be protected by glasses, goggles or a transparent
shield.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GLASSES. Ordinary eye pieces such as spectacles or sunglasses worn before
the eye, made of shatter-resistant material. SHATTER-RESISTANT MATERIAL, as
used in this definition, means material so manufactured, fabricated or created
that it substantially prevents shattering or flying when struck or broken.
      GOGGLES. A device worn before the eyes, the predominant function of which
is protecting the eyes without obstructing peripheral vision. GOGGLES shall
provide protection from the front and sides, and may or may not form a complete
seal with the face.
      TRANSPARENT SHIELD. A windshield attached to the front of a motorcycle
that extends above the eyes when an operator is seated in the normal, upright
riding position, made of shatter-resistant material or a shatter-resistant
protective face shield that covers the wearer’s eyes and face at least to a
point approximately to the tip of the nose.
   (C)   Contact lenses are not acceptable eye protection devices.
(Prior Code, § 78.28) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
77.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1404
§ 77.34 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1405) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 77.35 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE ON ONE WHEEL.
   Any person who operates a motorcycle, motor driven cycle or moped on one
wheel is guilty of reckless driving as defined in §
72.18.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating on one wheel prohibited, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1403.2
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation which violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined no less than $150 nor more than $750.
(Prior Code, § 78.99) (Ord. 438, passed 12-18-1974; Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-
1996)
CHAPTER 78: MOTOR VEHICLE TOWING
Section
Towing Company Requirements and Qualifications
   
78.01   Definitions
   
78.02   Application for tow list
   
78.03   Investigation and approval
   
78.04   Insurance
   
78.05   Duties and requirements of tow operators on rotation tow list
   
78.06   Collection of costs; inspection of records
   
78.07   Operation of rotation tow list
   
78.08   Tow trucks for semi-tractor trailer vehicles
   
78.09   Removal from rotation tow list
   
78.10   Fees
   
78.11   Solicitation of business
   
78.12   Tow truck operation
   
78.13   Storage facility
   
78.14   Tow operator personnel qualifications
   
78.15   Termination of rotation tow procedure
Towing Procedures
   
78.30   Abandonment prohibited
   
78.31   Abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicles; notify police
   
78.32   Authorization for towing
   
78.33   Pre-tow notice for abandoned vehicles
   
78.34   Pre-tow notice for odd-even violation vehicles
   
78.35   Pre-tow hearing procedures for abandoned vehicles
   
78.36   Post-tow notice and hearing for odd-even violation vehicles
   
78.37   Post-tow notice for hazardous and unlawful vehicles
   
78.38   Impounded vehicles
   
78.39   Post-tow hearing procedures
   
78.40   Towing service subject to ordinance
 
   
78.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Vehicle Impoundment Violations
Cross-reference:
   Inspection of village, see §
92.100
**** TOWING COMPANY REQUIREMENTS
AND QUALIFICATIONS ****
§ 78.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Any
term not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to it in other
ordinances of the village, and if not defined in any other village ordinances,
it shall have the meaning ascribed in the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle parked or otherwise located on the public way or in any
private alley or comparable way used as a means of vehicular access owned in
common by the owners of dwelling units within a given subdivision:
         (a)   In such a state of disrepair that it is incapable of being
driven; or
         (b)   That has been unmoved for a period of at least 24 hours and from
its condition, or some other circumstances appears to have been, and will be
presumed to have been, abandoned by its owner.
      (2)   Vehicles parked and unmoved on a public way or in a public parking
lot way or in any private alley or comparable way used as a means of vehicular
access owned in common by the owners of dwelling units within a given
subdivision for a period of at least seven days.
      (3)   A vehicle defined as abandoned, or capable of being towed, by any
other ordinances of the village, and which does not fail into the categories of
“hazardous” or “unlawful” vehicles, and, therefore, is not subject to an
immediate tow.
   EXTENDED SERVICE. Any tow which required the operator to perform services
beyond those required in a “normal tow.” For the purpose of this definition, a
NORMAL TOW is a tow where the vehicle’s wheels are on the ground and the
vehicle may be readily towed.
   HAZARDOUS VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that has been involved in an accident and is disabled or
cannot be immediately moved by the owner or operator of the vehicle to a
nonhazardous location;
      (2)   A vehicle that presents an immediate danger to the health or
welfare of the members of the public;
      (3)   A vehicle abandoned or disabled on a public street, way or alley
that is impeding the orderly flow of traffic or poses a potential danger to
pedestrians and other operators of vehicles either by its location, condition
or appearance; or
      (4)   A vehicle that must be moved to allow for proper village snow
removal from a public street, way or alley, where such vehicle is then parked
in violation of any applicable provision of this chapter, other than vehicles
parked in violation of the provisions of
Chapter 79, Schedule II(B).
   HEAVY DUTY. Involving vehicles 40,000 GVWR or heavier.
   LIGHT DUTY. Involving vehicles up to, but not including, 12,000 GVWR.
   MEDIUM DUTY. Involving vehicles from 12,000 up to, but not including, 40,000
GVWR.
   NONHAZARDOUS LOCATION. An area where a vehicle may be legally parked on a
public street, way or alley that does not impede the orderly flow of traffic or
pose a potential danger to pedestrians and other operators of vehicles.
   ODD-EVEN VIOLATION VEHICLE. A vehicle parked on any village street or road
in violation of the provisions of
Chapter 79, Schedule II(B) or Schedule II(B)(1).
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title to the vehicle, or the right of
possession of the vehicle.
   PUBLIC PARKING LOT. Off-street surface parking areas and off-street parking
in decks, garages and other structures owned by a governmental body which are
open to parking of vehicles by the public either with or without compensation.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any public road, street or highway in the village.
   ROTATION TOW LIST. A list maintained by the Village Police Department
containing the names of those tow operators approved by the Village Manager to
respond to requests by the Village Police Department dispatcher for the towing
of vehicles which are disabled where the person in charge of the vehicle has no
preference for any particular tow service or is unable to make such a decision.
The list shall also be utilized:
      (1)   To tow village-owned vehicles in need of service to a location
designated by the Department of Public Works; and
      (2)   To tow vehicles impounded by the Police Department for evidentiary
reasons.
   TOW OPERATOR. A person or firm engaged in the business of, or offering the
services of, vehicle towing whereby motor vehicles are or may be towed or
otherwise removed from one place to another by use of a tow truck.
   UNLAWFUL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that has been reported stolen;
      (2)   A vehicle which is the subject of a search and seizure by the
Police Department;
      (3)   A vehicle towed incident to arrest;
      (4)   A vehicle parked in violation of state statutes or ordinances of
the village which prohibit parking at the location in question or for the
period of time for which the vehicle has been parked, and where either the
statute or the ordinance in question authorize the vehicle to be towed and the
signs posted at the location in question note that fact; and
      (5)   A vehicle subject to impoundment in connection with the applicable
provisions of this chapter.
   UPRIGHTING. Bringing a vehicle that is either overturned or on its side to
the upright position to tow.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street, highway or any public way, except devices
moved by human power, devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks
and snowmobiles.
   WINCHING. Bringing a vehicle that is completely off of the road surface onto
the road surface for the purpose of towing.
(Prior Code, § 81.01) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003; Ord. 06-0393, passed 4-
5-2006; Ord. 14-1108, passed 10-1-2014)
§ 78.02 APPLICATION FOR TOW LIST.
   (A)   Any person desiring to perform towing work at the request of the
village Police Department shall submit an application for rotation tow list to
the Chief of Police. Application forms may be obtained from the Village Police
Department. Successful applicants will be required to sign annual service
agreements with the Village Police Department; the terms of which agreements
shall run from April 1 to March 30 of the following year. No person or entity
desiring to perform towing work at the request of the Village Police Department
shall be permitted to do so without such a current agreement having been
entered into with and on file with the Village Police Department. Such
agreements shall be in such form as may be required from time to time by the
Chief of Police, and may be executed by the Chief of Police on behalf of the
village and the Village Police Department. After the list is established, an
operator on the list will only need to submit a letter of intent, update any
changed information on the application and supply a new certificate of
insurance to reapply each year during the application period. There is no limit
as to the number of tow companies on the list.
   (B)   Applications shall include the following information on such forms as
may be required from time to time by the Village Police Department:
      (1)   Name of tow operator or provider;
      (2)   Business, vehicle storage lot and home addresses. The business and
vehicle storage lot addresses shall be located within ten miles of the
corporate limits of the village;
      (3)   Business and home phone numbers. The business phone number shall be
required to be answered on a 24-hour, seven-day per week basis or to be
connected to an answering machine or service capable or recording messages from
incoming callers;
      (4)   The name of the firm under which the tow operator or provider will
trade;
      (5)   Length of time in towing business;
      (6)   Three references;
      (7)   The location, size and security features of the storage lot on
which the towed vehicles will be stored. Such storage lot shall at a minimum
have the capacity to store 40 vehicles at any given time, and shall be capable
of providing inside storage for vehicles as may be requested from time to time
by the Village Police Department;
      (8)   The location to which the public must come to claim stored or
impounded vehicles;
      (9)   A statement of willingness to provide full service on a 24-hour-a-
day basis each day of the year, and a statement that the tow operator or
provider shall at a minimum provide personnel at its business address and
storage lot address during the hours of 9:00 a.m. through 7:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday and from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays for purposes of
allowing vehicle owners to retrieve towed vehicles held in storage by such tow
operator or provider;
      (10)   A list of towing equipment and its size and capacity;
      (11)   Insurance policies;
      (12)   Carriers, agents and subcontractors that the owner would place
into effect upon approval;
      (13)   A description of the communication system to be used on each tow
truck and at the office where calls are received;
      (14)   Equal employment opportunity statement;
      (15)   If a corporation, a certificate of good standing; and
      (16)   Names, home addresses, dates of birth, social security numbers and
copies of drivers’ licenses for any and all persons that the applicant proposes
to employ to actually provide towing services to the Village Police Department.
Such information may be used by the Village Police Department to conduct
background examinations of the proposed tow truck operators for compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, and the applicant shall provide consent forms
as approved by the village from time to time indicating the consent of the
applicant and its proposed tow truck operators to such background examinations.
(Prior Code, § 81.02) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003; Ord. 08-0692, passed 8-
6-2008)
§ 78.03 INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receiving an application for rotation tow list,
the Police Department shall conduct an investigation to determine the truth and
accuracy of the information contained in said application. The Police
Department shall also check to determine whether the location(s) meet all
applicable village code requirements, and to ascertain that the storage lot
area satisfies the minimum-security requirements of the Village Police
Department. Additionally, towing equipment shall be inspected and if the tow
operator is placed on the rotation tow list the equipment will be inspected in
connection with the renewal of the required annual towing service agreement.
Upon completion of the investigation, the tow operator will either be placed on
the rotation tow list or notified in writing that the application is
disapproved and state the reasons for such disapproval.
   (B)   No tow operator’s application shall be disapproved unless:
      (1)   The applicant has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information, or withheld relevant information on the application;
      (2)   The applicant does not and will not acquire insurance as required
by §
78.04;
      (3)   The location(s) and premises where the applicant will conduct their
business fails to meet the requirements of any applicable village ordinance or
law of the state or the requirements of §
78.13 hereof;
      (4)   The applicant or any of its owners have been permanently removed
from the rotational tow list for cause pursuant to §
78.09;
      (5)   The applicant fails to qualify under §
78.14, or proposes to employ a tow truck operator who does not qualify under §
78.14; and
      (6)   At any time the towing equipment does not meet the standards
required by the village for towing pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 81.03) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003)
§ 78.04 INSURANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The tow service shall maintain, at its cost, general liability
insurance coverage for the use and operation of all tow trucks owned and
operated by such service truck(s) of $250,000 per person, $500,000 per
occurrence. The tow service shall further maintain an umbrella liability policy
in the minimum amount of $1,000,000. The tow service shall cause the village to
be named an additional insured under all such policies. The tow service shall
deliver evidence of such insurance to the village prior to being placed on the
rotation tow list in the form of a certificate of insurance. Such policies
shall not be cancelable or subject to material change without at least 30 days’
written notice thereof to the village Police Department. All insurance policies
shall cover the operator, its carriers, agents and subcontractors.
      (2)   In addition, the tow service shall keep in full force at all times
during the life of the agreement, insurance coverage meeting minimum
requirements as follows:
         (a)   Comprehensive general liability. Must include the following
industry standard forms of insurance:
            1.   Premises/operation coverage;
            2.   Products and completed operations coverage;
            3.   Blanket contractual liability; and
            4.   Five hundred thousand dollars combined single limit, or
$500,000 bodily injury and $250,000 property damage.
         (b)   Comprehensive auto liability. Must include the following
endorsements:
            1.   All owned autos, hired-car coverage and employers non-owned
auto coverage;
            2.   The policy shall not contain a radius restriction of less than
50 miles; and
            3.   Fifty thousand dollars on hook and/or on truck bed liability.
         (c)   Garage keepers’ legal liability or motor truck cargo. The vendor
shall provide coverage for the vehicles in their custody. Either a motor truck
cargo policy, listing all storage lots as terminal locations or garage keepers’
legal liability policy shall be required. The minimum amount of coverage shall
be no less than $50,000; and
         (d)   Workers’ compensation and employers’ liability. Statutory limits
for workers’ compensation and a $100,000 employers’ liability limit.
   (B)   Each vendor shall supply the village with a certificate of insurance,
which indicates coverage for the above-mentioned minimum insurance
requirements, which carries the provision that said insurance shall not be
cancelled without giving the village at least 30 days’ notice of cancellation
or material change. The certificate of insurance shall also name the village as
additional insured.
(Prior Code, § 81.04) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003)
§ 78.05 DUTIES AND REQUIREMENTS OF TOW OPERATORS ON ROTATION TOW LIST.
   (A)   The tow operator is responsible for providing a secured lot where the
vehicles are stored, with an office at the location and staffed during
reasonable business hours. The storage lot shall be located ten miles of the
village limits.
   (B)   All tow trucks shall be equipped with warning lights and all other
equipment required by state law including one or more brooms and shovels,
antifreeze, oil-dry chemical, one or more trash cans at least 18 inches in
height and one fire extinguisher of a dry chemical or carbon dioxide type with
an aggregate rating of at least 4-B, C units and bearing the approval of a
laboratory qualified by the Division of Fire Prevention for this purpose; and
have working two-way communication equipment on the same commercial frequency
as the base station located at the point where calls are received. All tow
trucks shall be equipped to safely transport motorcycles.
   (C)   Each tow operator shall provide 24-hour-per-day service each day of
the year. There shall be an attendant or answering service on duty at all times
for the purpose of receiving calls and there shall be a person on call at all
times for the purpose of releasing stored vehicles or for receiving vehicles.
   (D)   The tow operator shall sign an agreement as approved by the village
from time to time to indemnify and save the village harmless from any liability
for damages sustained by vehicles by being towed or stored and for all personal
injuries occurring to any of the firms, employees or other persons and shall
maintain the required insurance policies.
(Prior Code, § 81.05) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.06 COLLECTION OF COSTS; INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Collection of towing and storage charges from the owner or driver of
the towed vehicles shall be the sole responsibility of the tow operator or
their employee. The village and the Police Department will not be responsible
for nor assist in the collection of such fees.
   (B)   The village will only be responsible for towing fees for village-owned
vehicles. The village will not pay for the storage of abandoned vehicles, but
will make every attempt to ascertain the owner of the vehicle for prompt claim,
sale or other disposition pursuant to the village code and 625 ILCS 5/4-201 et
seq., as amended.
   (C)   Tow operators shall maintain complete records and a system of
releasing vehicles which assures that vehicles are released only to the
rightful owner or authorized person. All records involving towing from the
rotation tow list shall be open to the Village Police Department for inspection
during normal business hours or at such time as there is existing a dispute
concerning the amount or validity of any towing or storage charges.
(Prior Code, § 81.06) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003)
§ 78.07 OPERATION OF ROTATION TOW LIST.
   The Police Department shall ensure that tow trucks on the rotation tow list
are called in rotation as far as is practicable, with such rotation being
conducted monthly, on an operator by operator basis, such that the Village
Police Department shall initially select a tow operator to be the primary or
first response tow service provider for a given month, and thereafter shall in
such manner and in such order as it deems appropriate, select a different tow
service provider to be the primary or first response tow service provider,
until such time as all qualified tow service providers have been given an
opportunity to serve as the primary or first response tow service provider. The
Police Department shall not, except upon request of the owner, operator or
person legitimately in possession of the vehicle to be serviced, call any tow
truck not on the rotation tow list unless all such tow trucks are unavailable.
It is specifically permitted for the Police Department to call a tow truck out
of sequence in a life-threatening emergency where there is an urgent need for
services of a tow truck in the proximity to the location or estimated response
time makes it more practical to do so. Notwithstanding the aforesaid rotation
system, all tow service providers shall be on-call on a 24-hour, seven-day per
week basis to render tow services as required by the Village Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 81.07) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003)
§ 78.08 TOW TRUCKS FOR SEMI-TRACTOR TRAILER VEHICLES.
   A separate rotation tow list of tow trucks capable of towing semi-tractor
trailer vehicles or comparably sized vehicles shall be maintained, but the
provision of such services shall be at the reasonable discretion of the Village
Police Department, in light of the specialized nature and limited availability
of such services.
(Prior Code, § 81.08) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003)
§ 78.09 REMOVAL FROM ROTATION TOW LIST.
   (A)   Reasons for removal. The Village Manager may remove any tow operator
temporarily or permanently from the rotation tow list when they find:
      (1)   Placement on the list was secured by fraud or concealment of a
material fact, which if known would have caused disapproval of the application;
      (2)   The tow operator or any person employed by such operator has been
convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter, any law of the
state pertaining to the provision of tow services, the operation, ownership or
theft of motor vehicles, consumption of alcohol or the use or possession of any
controlled substance or any applicable ordinance of the village, or of any law
of any state where such conviction is for a felony offense; and
      (3)   The service provided by the tow operator has been substantially
inadequate, which shall include, but not be limited to, failing to be available
for or not accepting calls, slow response time, excessive damage claims,
repeated complaints from citizens or inadequate towing equipment.
   (B)   Temporary removal. If the removal of the tow operator from the
rotation tow list is temporary, such temporary removal shall not be for more
than 30 days at any one time.
   (C)   Pending suspension/removal.
      (1)   If the Chief of Police determines the alleged offense does not
constitute an immediate threat to the health, safety or welfare of the public,
the Police Chief shall provide the tow operator with written notice at least 15
days prior to the effective date of the temporary or permanent removal by
delivering said notice to the tow operator’s place of business.
      (2)   Said written notice shall include:
         (a)   The effective date of the removal;
         (b)   Whether the removal is temporary or permanent;
         (c)   The allegations which form the basis of the removal and the
provisions of this chapter which may be at issue therein;
         (d)   The actions, if any, the tow operator may take to prevent the
removal from occurring; and
         (e)   The procedure which the tow operator must follow to request a
hearing to appeal the removal.
      (3)   If a hearing is requested, the village’s administrative hearing
officer shall oversee the hearing pursuant to the provisions found in Chapter
41. The date, time and place shall be set forth in the hearing notice; provided
that, for hearings scheduled in all non-emergency situations, the tow operator
shall have at least 15 calendar days after service of a hearing notice to
prepare for a hearing, unless otherwise provided in any applicable provision of
this code creating a right to a hearing. No hearing shall be scheduled or
convened more than 45 calendar days from the date of service of a hearing
notice. If service is provided by mail, the 14-day period shall begin to run on
the date that the notice is deposited in the mail. Hearings shall be scheduled
at the earliest possible date, except that the tow operator in an emergency
hearing situation shall have at least three calendar days after service of a
notice to prepare for the hearing, unless otherwise provided in any applicable
provision of this code creating a right to a hearing. The hearing shall provide
both sides with the opportunity to present all evidence relevant to the
removal. The administrative hearing officer shall issue a written decision
based upon a preponderance of the presented evidence within seven days of the
hearing. The opinion will be sent to the tow operator’s business address with a
copy retained in the tow operator’s application file at the Police Department.
The village or the tow operator may contest the decision of the hearing officer
in any manner provided by law.
   (D)   Immediate suspension/removal.
      (1)   If the Chief of Police determines that a tow operator presents an
immediate threat to the health, safety or welfare of the community, or if the
tow operator has not provided proof of valid insurance in the amounts required
by ordinance, the Chief of Police may remove the tow operator from the tow
rotation list prior to any hearing. If the Chief of Police finds just cause,
they shall provide written notification to the tow operator that the tow
operator is being removed from the tow rotation list immediately.
      (2)   Said written notice shall be delivered to the tow operator’s place
of business on the first day the removal is effective, and shall state:
         (a)   That the removal is effective immediately;
         (b)   Whether the removal is temporary or permanent;
         (c)   The allegations forming the basis of the removal; and
         (d)   The procedure which the tow operator must follow to request a
hearing to appeal the removal.
      (3)   If a hearing is requested, the village administrative hearing
officer shall oversee the hearing pursuant to Chapter 41. The date, time and
place shall be set forth in the hearing notice; provided that for hearings
scheduled in all non-emergency situations, the tow operator shall have at least
15 calendar days after service of a hearing notice to prepare for a hearing,
unless otherwise provided in any applicable provision of this code creating a
right to a hearing. No hearing shall be scheduled or convened more than 45
calendar days from the date of service of a hearing notice. If service is
provided by mail, the 14-day period shall begin to run on the date that the
notice is deposited in the mail. Hearings shall be scheduled at the earliest
possible date, except that the tow operator in an emergency hearing situation
shall have at least three calendar days after service of a notice to prepare
for the hearing, unless otherwise provided in any applicable provision of this
code creating a right to a hearing. The hearing(s) shall provide both sides
with the opportunity to present all evidence relevant to the removal. The
administrative hearing officer shall issue a written decision based upon a
preponderance of the presented evidence within seven days of the hearing. The
opinion shall be sent to the tow operator’s business address, with a copy
retained in the tow operator’s application file at the Police Department. If
the decision favors the tow operator, the administrative hearing officer shall
notify the Police Department so that towing privileges may be reinstated as
soon as possible. The village or the tow operator may contest the decision of
the administrative hearing officer in any manner provided by law.
   (E)   Method of requesting hearing.
      (1)   A tow operator must request a hearing by:
         (a)   Delivering a written request therefor to the Village Police
Department within ten days of receiving a notice of removal; and
         (b)   Scheduling a hearing.
      (2)   The Village Police Department must provide a time for the hearing
that is within 72 hours of the receipt of the request; provided there is one
complete business day within the 72-hour time period. If there is no complete
village business day in the 72-hour period, the hearing shall be held on the
first village business day after the 72-hour time period. If the tow operator
is unavailable at the time provided by the village, the village shall not be
bound by the 72-hour time period and the removal will not be stayed. If the
village is unable to provide a hearing time within the applicable time period,
all action on the removal shall be stayed until the hearing.
   (F)   Appeal of administrative hearing officer’s decision. In any case where
the applicable provisions of this code provide for a right of any person or
entity to appeal any administrative action taken or any decision made by any
village personnel charged with the administration, enforcement or application
of any provisions of this code, or where such a right to appeal is required by
any other provision of applicable law, such person or entity may take such an
appeal by filing a written notice of appeal with the hearing officer and the
village personnel from whose action or decision the appeal is taken, which
notice shall specify the grounds for the appeal. The notice of appeal shall be
served on the hearing officer and the village personnel from whose action or
decision the appeal is taken by first class mail, postage prepaid, within 30
calendar days from the date of the action or decision from which the appeal is
taken. Service of the appeal notice sent in accordance herewith shall be
complete as of the date of deposit in the United States Mail. Upon receipt of
the notice of appeal, the hearing clerk shall schedule the appeal for a hearing
before the hearing officer at the next scheduled hearing date which is not less
than ten calendar days nor more than 45 calendar days from the date of service
of the appeal notice, and the village personnel from whose action or decision
the appeal is taken shall transmit all documents and papers used in making the
decision or taking the action which is the subject of the appeal, and transmit
the same to the hearing clerk and the hearing officer. A notice of appeal shall
stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action or decision from which the
appeal is taken, unless the village personnel whose action or decision is the
subject of the appeal certifies in writing to the hearing officer that based on
facts set forth in the certification, a stay of proceedings would result in
imminent danger to life or property, in which case such proceedings shall not
be stayed other than by a restraining order issued by the hearing officer or by
a court of competent jurisdiction, upon notice to the parties and for good
cause shown. The hearing on the appeal shall be conducted in a manner that is
generally consistent with the provisions of §
41.17. The hearing officer may affirm, reverse or modify, in whole or in part,
the action or decision of the village personnel from which the appeal is taken.
No person or entity shall challenge any decision or action of any village
personnel through litigation in a court of competent jurisdiction unless or
until a timely notice of appeal has been filed and prosecuted, and the hearing
officer has rendered a final decision on the merits of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 81.09) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003; Ord. 23-1836, passed 3-
15-2023)
§ 78.10 FEES.
   (A)   The following schedule of maximum fees shall be in effect for all tows
received off the rotation tow list. No fees shall be charged by any towing
company participating in the rotation tow program other than the fees
specifically set forth in this division (A), or any fee expressly permitted to
be charged by applicable state law.
Service Description Price
Service Description                                                     Price
                                                                        The otherwise applicable fees and charges quoted above shall apply to tows of
Abandoned vehicle tows                                                  abandoned vehicles. The Police Department’s intent is to primarily call for tows
                                                                        of abandoned vehicles during daytime hours, but reserves the right to call for
                                                                        towing of abandoned vehicles on a 24-hour-a-day basis
Arrest tow administrative fee                                           $25
                                                                        Quoted above shall apply to tows of abandoned vehicles. The Police Department’s
                                                                        intent is to tow vehicles illegally parked in construction zones. The street or
                                                                        construction zone must be posted in advance with no parking/construction zone
                                                                        signage in advance, and/or appropriate advance notice must otherwise be provided
Construction zones                                                      to affected residents and property owners. These vehicles shall be towed to a
                                                                        tow operator’s impound lot, and the Police Department will document these tows
                                                                        with a tow report. However, these vehicles shall not be subject to the
                                                                        administrative fee provided for in §
                                                                        78.38
Credit card fees                                                        Tow operators may charge fees for accepting payment by credit card in accordance
                                                                        with all applicable state and federal law
Debris clean up fee, without call for tow, outside of Public Works
normal hours (Public Works hours are 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., Monday     $65
through Friday, and 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. on Saturday)
Extra manpower for offloading and the like                              $25 per work hour
Medium and heavy duty vehicles
Insurance administrative fee (billed to insurance company for time      $50
spent with adjuster)
Investigative tows                                                      No charge to village or vehicle owner for up to one tow of a vehicle to the
                                                                        Police Department for evidence gathering/processing
Mileage:
   Light duty vehicles                                               $3 per mile
   Medium and heavy duty vehicles                                    $4 per mile
   Within village limits or to storage facility designated on towing
application outside village limits or to any storage facility requested Free
other than one on application, first ten miles free then:
Motorcycle strapping fee                                                $40
Oil dry fee                                                             $25 per bag
Skate fee                                                               $25
Standby:
   Light duty tow per half hour after first half hour on scene       $25
   Medium duty per truck per half hour after first half hour on scene$25
Stolen vehicle recovery tow fee                                         $85, plus mileage for all miles traveled beyond a ten-mile radius from village
                                                                        limits
Storage per vehicle - no charge for first 24 hours. After 24 hours:
   Heavy duty                                                        Then-current rates of provider
   Light duty                                                        $35 additional
   Light duty after hours release                                    $55 per day outside
   Medium duty                                                       $75 per day inside
Tarp/crash wrap fee (may charge one of these two fees, but not both)
   Clean up fee, with call for tow                                   $25
   Clean up over 30 minutes, with call for tow                       $50
   Crash wrap                                                        $25 to $50 based on amount used
   Tarp                                                              $20
   Tow truck clean up fee (for towed vehicle leakage on tow truck)   $25
Third-party service provider fee                                        Pass through of costs incurred from third-party service providers where
                                                                        necessary to complete tow or recovery
Towing rates (flatbed service mandatory):
   Gas delivery                                                      $85, plus gas
   Heavy duty extended service tow                                   Then-current rates of provider
   Heavy duty vehicle tow                                            Then-current rates of provider
   Jump start (light duty only)                                      $85
   Light duty vehicle tow                                            $185
   Lockout calls                                                     $85
   Medium duty extended service tow                                  $190 per hour
   Medium duty vehicle tow                                           $190
   Tire change (light duty only)                                     $85
   Up righting                                                       $50
   Winching                                                          $50 for vehicles within 50 feet of the roadway
                                                                        $1 a foot additional for vehicles beyond 50 feet from the roadway
Tows of hazardous vehicles                                              The otherwise applicable fees and charges quoted above shall apply to tows of
                                                                        hazardous vehicles
                                                                        It is the Police Department’s intent to tow vehicles as and when necessary to
                                                                        permit emergency repairs to public infrastructure, or to permit emergency
                                                                        response services to be provided by the Police Department, Fire Department or
Tows of vehicles from emergency response sites                          other relevant agencies. In such situations, the Police Department will
                                                                        authorize tow operators to relocate obstructing vehicles to a nearby location as
                                                                        directed and determined by the Police Department. The fee for such tows shall be
                                                                        $100, and the village shall be responsible for the payment of the fee
Tows of vehicles from marked                                            The otherwise applicable fees and charges
Village vehicle tows
                                                                        First tow of any disabled/inoperable village-owned vehicle to Public Works from
                                                                        any location within 20 miles of the Village Hall is at no charge to the village;
                                                                        if tow is from farther than 20 miles from Village Hall, a mileage charge of $3
   Light duty tows:                                                  per mile for each mile over 20 shall apply. For the second and any subsequent
                                                                        tows of the disabled/inoperable village vehicle, a fee of $75 shall apply for
                                                                        tows to locations within 20 miles of the Village Hall; if tow is from farther
                                                                        than 20 miles from Village Hall, a mileage charge of $3 per mile for each mile
                                                                        over 20 shall apply in addition to the $75 fee
                                                                        First tow of any disabled/inoperable village-owned vehicle to Public Works from
                                                                        any location within 20 miles of the Village Hall is at no charge to the village.
                                                                        If tow is further than 20 miles from Village Hall, a fee of $75 per hour shall
   Medium/heavy duty tows:                                           apply for medium duty tows, and a fee of $100 per hour shall apply for heavy
                                                                        duty tows. For the second and any subsequent tow of the disabled/inoperable
                                                                        village vehicle, a fee of $75 per hour shall apply for medium duty tows, and a
                                                                        fee of $100 per hour shall apply for heavy duty tows
In lieu of charging and accepting the fees set forth above for the towing of village vehicles where a fee would be applicable, a tow operator may
instead elect to submit its claim for services rendered to any relevant insurer under any policy of insurance to pay claims pertaining to the condition
of the village vehicles at issue
 
   (B)   (1)   Every tow truck performing towing services pursuant to this
chapter shall have a placard describing available rates and services posted in
the cab of the vehicle at all times.
      (2)   Subject to the applicability of division (C) below, only fees
established by this section may be charged. Any additional fee is prohibited.
   (C)   Where special or unusual circumstances require an exceptional amount
of extra work or equipment, a higher fee may be charged; provided that the
owner or operator of the vehicle to be serviced is informed of the additional
fee in advance, if such person is available to be notified. Charges for
rotation tow services shall be on invoice forms, which shall include the above
rate structure.
   (D)   In lieu of paying any applicable fees due and owing to tow operators
under this section, an owner of the vehicle may transfer ownership of the
vehicle to the tow operator, and the acceptance of such a transfer of ownership
by a tow operator shall operate as a waiver and release of the prior owner of
the vehicle for any fees that had been due and owing under this section other
than the fee for the tow itself (i.e., no storage, cleanup or other fees shall
be payable).
(Prior Code, § 81.10) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003; Ord. 06-0507, passed 1-
17-2007; Ord. 08-0692, passed 8-6-2008; Ord. 16-1296, passed 8-17-2016; Ord.
19-1543, passed 3-6-2019; Ord. 19-1588, passed 8-7-2019; Ord. 23-1832, passed
3-1-2023; Ord. 23-1872, passed 12-6-2023; Ord. 25-1984, passed 5-21-2025)
Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.11 SOLICITATION OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   No tow operator may respond to the scene of an accident or emergency
for the purpose of towing vehicles unless called there by the Police Department
or persons involved in the accident or emergency. Tow operators responding to
an accident or emergency at the request of a person other than a police officer
must record the name and address of the person and make such information
available to the Police Department upon request.
   (B)   This section is intended only to prohibit the soliciting of business
at the scene of accidents and emergencies, and shall not be construed to
prohibit any tow operator from contracting with any person, firm or
corporation; provided that the tow operator, their agents and employees do not
solicit tow contracts at the scene of accidents or emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 81.11) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.12 TOW TRUCK OPERATION.
   (A)   Every tow operator or driver of a tow truck shall remove or cause to
be removed all glass and debris deposited on any street or highway by the
disabled vehicle being serviced, and shall, in addition, spread oil-dry upon
that portion of any street or highway where oil or grease has been deposited by
the disabled vehicle being serviced.
   (B)   No tow operator or driver of a tow truck shall respond to a call for
service while under the influence of intoxicants.
   (C)   Tow vehicles shall be taken to such location designated by the vehicle
owner, driver or agent, should such person not wish to store the vehicle at the
tow operator’s facility; provided, however, that vehicles towed upon the
direction of the Police Department shall be towed to such a place as designated
by the police officer in charge at the scene.
   (D)   When a tow operator tows a vehicle pursuant to a DUI arrest, the tow
operator shall hold that vehicle in storage for 12 hours and may only then
release the vehicle to the owner.
   (E)   Once notified of a tow, the tow operator will provide the Police
Department an approximate time it will take to arrive at the scene of the tow.
If a tow operator on current rotation is unable to respond to a request for
service within 20 minutes of the request for service, the tow operator or their
employee shall advise the Police Department that they are not available. The
tow operator will then be removed from its current place in the rotation and
placed at the end of the then current rotation list. No substitute tow truck or
operator will be allowed. The police dispatcher will then call the next tow
operator in the rotation.
(Prior Code, § 81.12) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.13 STORAGE FACILITY.
   Each tow operator shall maintain a secure storage lot of adequate size to
store all towed vehicles safely, but in no event shall the capacity be smaller
than 20 vehicles. Said lot shall be enclosed by a fence not less than six feet
in height and shall have a locked gate. All storage facilities must meet all
zoning and fire ordinances and restrictions. When instructed by the Police
Department that a vehicle in storage must be secured from tampering, the
operator shall store said vehicle so that it is not accessible to any person
except upon specific approval of the tow operator or their agent. A clearance
of 24 inches must be maintained around all vehicles received from the rotation
tow list calls.
(Prior Code, § 81.13) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.14 TOW OPERATOR PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No person who has been convicted:
      (1)   Under the law of this state or any other state of an offense which
under the laws of the state would be a felony theft of a vehicle or of any
felony arising under the Illinois Vehicle Code or analogous law of any other
state;
      (2)   Under the law of this state or any other state of any violation
involving as an element thereof the use of alcohol or controlled substances; or
      (3)   The violation of any applicable ordinances of the village shall be
approved as a tow operator to be placed on the rotation tow list, nor shall any
tow operator knowingly permit such a person to operate a tow truck on the
rotation tow list calls; provided, however, that a person whose last conviction
was more than four years past, and who has shown evidence of rehabilitation,
may be approved if otherwise eligible.
   (B)   Each tow operator shall furnish to the Police Department a complete
and current list of all drivers who may respond to rotation tow list calls. No
driver shall be permitted to respond to any rotation tow list call unless their
name, date of birth and driver’s license number have been furnished to and
reviewed and approved by the Police Department at least five business days in
advance of the time at which such driver is proposed to begin rendering tow
services.
(Prior Code, § 81.14) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.15 TERMINATION OF ROTATION TOW PROCEDURE.
   The village reserves the right to terminate its rotation tow procedure
unilaterally at any time without any notice and without recourse.
(Prior Code, § 81.15) (Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003)
**** TOWING PROCEDURES ****
§ 78.30 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on any public way or public
parking lot anywhere in the village is unlawful. A vehicle or any part thereof
so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal by order of the
Village Police Department when it has been determined the vehicle is of
evidentiary value.
(Prior Code, § 81.20) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.31 ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED VEHICLES; NOTIFY POLICE.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle comes into the
temporary possession or custody of a person not the owner of the vehicle, such
person shall immediately notify the Village Police Department when the vehicle
is within the corporate limits of the village. Upon receipt of such
notification, the Police Department shall inspect the abandoned, lost, stolen
or unclaimed vehicle. If the Police Department determines that the vehicle is
of evidentiary value, it will order a towing of the vehicle. Otherwise, the
village is not responsible for the towing of the vehicle from the private
property.
(Prior Code, § 81.21) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 78.32 AUTHORIZATION FOR TOWING.
   The towing of hazardous, unlawful, abandoned or odd-even violation vehicles
at the direction of the village by a towing service from the rotation tow list
shall be authorized by the Police Department under the circumstances herein
provided. Towed vehicles shall be transported to a storage facility provided by
the service that towed the vehicle until lawfully claimed pursuant to this
chapter or disposed of pursuant to state law.
   (A)   Towing with prior notice; abandoned vehicles. Abandoned vehicles may
be towed only after an abandoned vehicle has been posted with a notice of
intent to tow sticker in accordance with the provisions of §
78.33 and the affording of an opportunity for a hearing as provided in §§
78.33 and
78.35.
   (B)   Towing without prior notice; hazardous vehicles. Hazardous vehicles
may be towed without prior notice. Post-tow notice and an opportunity for a
post-tow hearing shall be provided as set forth in §§
78.37 and
78.39.
      (1)   Towing without prior notice; unlawful vehicles. Unlawful vehicles,
other than vehicles subject to impoundment under §
78.38, may be towed without prior notice. Post-tow notice and an opportunity
for a post-tow hearing shall be provided as set forth in §§
78.37 and
78.39.
      (2)   Towing without prior notice; vehicles subject to impoundment.
Vehicles subject to impoundment under §
78.38 may be towed and impounded without prior notice. Post-tow notice and a
post-tow hearing shall be provided as set forth in §
78.39.
   (C)   Towing with prior notice; odd-even violation vehicles. Odd-even
violation vehicles may be towed only after an odd-even vehicle has been posted
with a notice of intent to tow sticker in accordance with §
78.34. A post-tow notice and opportunity for a post-tow hearing shall be
provided in accordance with §
78.36.
(Prior Code, § 81.22) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 78.33 PRE-TOW NOTICE FOR ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   A “notice of intent to tow” sticker with the earliest date upon which the
tow may take place pursuant to this chapter and the address and phone number of
the Police Department shall be placed on the vehicle. Such tow date shall be
not less than 72 hours after the placement of such sticker. In the event that
the laws of the state shall from time to time require other and further pre-tow
notice other than the notice expressly provided for herein, this section shall
automatically be deemed to be amended from time to time in order to ensure the
proper provision of such pre-tow notice in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 81.23) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 78.34 PRE-TOW NOTICE FOR ODD-EVEN VIOLATION VEHICLES.
   A “notice of intent to tow” sticker with the earliest date and time upon
which the tow may take place pursuant to this chapter and the address and phone
number of the Police Department shall be placed on the vehicle. Such tow date
shall be not less than 24 hours after the placement of such sticker. In the
event that the laws of the state shall from time to time require other and
further pre-tow notice other than the notice expressly provided for herein,
this section shall automatically be deemed to be amended from time to time in
order to ensure the proper provision of such pre-tow notice in accordance with
state law. Vehicles not lawfully relocated within the 24-hour period set forth
in the notice shall thereafter be subject to immediate tow in order to
facilitate completion of snow removal operations, and without regard to the
effects of the passage of time on the parking compliance status of such
vehicles. The mere passage of time, without more, shall not serve as a defense
to or to prevent the towing of any vehicle that has not been relocated as
hereinabove required. A post-tow notice and opportunity for a post-tow hearing
shall be provided in accordance with §
78.36.
(Prior Code, § 81.231) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 78.35 PRE-TOW HEARING PROCEDURES FOR ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Opportunity for hearing. The owner or person entitled to possession of
a vehicle to be towed as an abandoned vehicle shall have 72 hours from the time
of placement of the pre-tow notice sticker to request a pre-tow hearing. If the
owner has not made such a request, any hearing rights under the provisions of
this chapter will be deemed waived and the vehicle may be towed.
   (B)   Scheduling of pre-tow hearings. The pre-tow hearing shall be scheduled
for a date within 15 days of the placement of the pre-tow notice sticker. The
village shall not be required to delay towing longer than such 15-day period.
   (C)   Request for pre-tow hearings. Request for a pre-tow hearing may be
made in person or by telephone to the shift supervisor or sergeant on duty at
the time of such request. The owner will be provided a hearing date and time by
mail or in person as the circumstances require.
   (D)   Appointment of hearing officer. The Chief of Police shall choose an
officer or employee of the village to serve as hearing officer from time to
time. In no case shall that hearing officer be an individual who was involved
in the initial decision to tow the vehicle. The hearing officer shall require
the presence of the enforcement officer who initiated the proposed tow or any
other village personnel.
   (E)   Nature of hearing. The hearing shall be informal in nature, and the
rules of evidence shall not apply. The hearing will not be determinative of, or
adjudicate, any citation relative to any vehicle. After receiving all relevant
evidence, the hearing officer shall make a written decision based upon a
preponderance of the evidence as to whether towing of the vehicle is authorized
by the laws of the state or the ordinances of the village, with a specific
statutory or ordinance section cited in the decision. The owner shall be
provided a copy of such hearing decision.
   (F)   Decision to tow and rates to be charged. If the preponderance of the
evidence supports towing and compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
the hearing officer shall direct that vehicle be towed, with any towing and
storage costs to then be imposed upon the owner thereof. The fees to be charged
for towing and storage services shall be no more than the rates set out in this
chapter. The owner of said vehicle having had such hearing may avoid the towing
by immediately removing the vehicle from the improper location to a proper,
lawful location and correcting any unlawful condition of the vehicle.
   (G)   Decision not to tow. If the preponderance of the evidence fails to
support towing of the vehicle, the hearing officer shall direct that the
vehicle shall not be towed. The hearing officer shall furnish a copy of such
decision to the owner, who may place it inside the vehicle in a location
plainly visible from the outside, such as the dashboard or rear window. The
village shall tow no vehicle about which such a decision has been rendered
unless the circumstances under which the decision was rendered have changed.
If, at some subsequent time, the village should wish to tow the vehicle from
the same location, it shall follow the same procedures required for the towing
of any other similarly situated vehicle.
   (H)   Reports and documents to be retained; contesting decisions. Originals
or copies of all notices, pre-tow hearing decisions, towing reports and any
associated police reports or documents shall be retained by the Police
Department for a period of at least five years after each hearing, or after
each tow if no hearing was requested or held. The village or the owner may
contest the decision of the hearing officer in any manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 81.24) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 78.36 POST-TOW NOTICE AND HEARING FOR ODD-EVEN VIOLATION VEHICLES.
   Owners or parties entitled to possession of vehicles towed as odd-even
violation vehicles pursuant to §
78.32(C) shall be entitled to a post-tow notice and an opportunity for a post-
tow hearing as set forth in §§
78.37 and
78.39.
(Prior Code, § 81.241) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 78.37 POST-TOW NOTICE FOR HAZARDOUS AND UNLAWFUL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Mailing or delivery of notice. Notice pursuant to this section shall
be forwarded by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the
address of the owner of the vehicle as indicated in the most current
registration list of the Secretary of State, unless the notice is personally
delivered to the owner, in which case, the date and time of the delivery and
the name of the officer making the delivery shall be noted in the Police
Department records or reports. In the event that the village has towed an out-
of-state hazardous or unlawful vehicle, inquiry by computer, telephone or
letter shall be made of the Secretary of State or equivalent state agency of
the particular jurisdiction for the furnishing of the most current registered
name and address of the owner of the vehicle, and notice shall be mailed as
provided herein to the address furnished. Notification shall be sent no later
than two days after the date the ownership of the vehicle is determined.
   (B)   Notice of vehicle release requirements and hearing rights of towed
vehicles. Printed on the back of the invoice is information indicating the
opportunity and procedures for a hearing to contest the validity of a towed
vehicle.
   (C)   Requests for post-tow hearings. Requests for hearings may be made in
person or by mail to the office indicated on the notice and the back of the
invoice within 15 days of the mailing or personal delivery of the notification
of tow, or release of the vehicle, whichever occurs first; otherwise, the right
to a hearing shall be deemed waived.
   (D)   Release of motor vehicles. Before the owner or other person entitled
to possession of any impounded vehicle shall be permitted to remove the same,
that person shall furnish evidence of their identity, proof of ownership or of
their right to possession; sign a receipt for the vehicle; and pay the amount
owed for towing and storage fees to the towing service operator unless the
hearing officer finds that the vehicle should not have been towed. In cases
where the vehicle is to be released to a person asserting a legal right to
possess the vehicle other than the owner of the vehicle, such person shall also
present an indemnification of the village from any claims of the owner of the
vehicle for claims relating to the release thereof.
   (E)   Establishment of towing and storage rates. The vehicle owner shall be
responsible for fees for towing and storage on police-ordered tows at rates set
forth in this chapter. The towing service operator must fully itemize in
writing the details of billing and supply a copy of the itemized bill to the
owner and to the Police Department. The towing service operator and the Police
Department shall have available a copy of the complete current rate schedule as
set forth by this chapter and any special rate policy that may apply for
vehicle owners to view upon request.
(Prior Code, § 81.25) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 78.38 IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Vehicles subject to impoundment. Any vehicle that is used in the
commission of any offense set forth in Appendix A to this chapter shall be
impounded and towed by a tow operator eligible to tow vehicles pursuant to this
chapter to a place of safe storage. The registered owner of an impounded
vehicle, the agents of such registered owner or the lessee of such shall be
liable for the towing and storage fees therefor pursuant to this chapter, and
shall further be liable to the village for the payment of an administrative fee
as hereinafter set forth in this section. The administrative fee shall be used
by the village to assist in defraying its costs as allowed by 625 ILCS 5/11-
208.7. All such towing and storage fees and administrative fees shall be in
addition to any fines or penalties imposed by any court in connection with the
adjudication of the offense underlying the impoundment in question.
   (B)   Impoundment notice and hearing.
      (1)   Vehicles subject to impoundment may be impounded and towed without
any prior notice or prior hearing. At the time of the towing and impoundment of
an impounded vehicle, the village shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to
notify the registered owner, the agent thereof or the lessee of the impounded
vehicle; any persons identifying themselves as the same; or any person found to
be in control of the vehicle at the time of impoundment, of the fact of the
impoundment and towing of the vehicle and of the right to an administrative
hearing on the merits of the impoundment.
      (2)   Thereafter, the village shall provide notice to the registered
owner of the vehicle, any lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder of the
vehicle that:
         (a)   The vehicle shall remain impounded pending the completion of an
administrative hearing on the merits of the impoundment, unless the owner,
lessee or lienholder shall post a bond with the village in the amount of the
administrative fee established by this chapter and pay all applicable towing
and storage fees due to the tow operator and
         (b)   That the Village Code Hearing Department shall conduct a hearing
on the merits of the impoundment of the vehicle, and stating the date, time and
location of the administrative hearing.
      (3)   The notice required herein shall be served by the village on the
parties entitled thereto by personal service, or by first class United States
Mail addressed to the registered owner, lessee and/or lienholder at their
addresses as disclosed by the records of the Secretary of State within ten days
of the date of the impoundment of the vehicle. Such notice shall be effective
upon personal service or upon mailing. The hearing described in the notice
shall be scheduled and convened within 45 days of the date of the impoundment
of the vehicle. The administrative hearing on the merits of the impoundment
shall be conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of
Chapter 41.
   (C)   Release of impounded vehicles. Prior to the conduct of an
administrative hearing, an impounded vehicle may be released upon the payment
to the village of an administrative fee in the amount of $400, and payment to
the tow operator of all applicable towing and storage fees; provided, however,
that in the event that the impounded vehicle shall be a bus impounded under any
applicable provision of
Chapter 73, the administrative fee due to the village shall be $5,000, in
addition to payment to the tow operator of all applicable towing and storage
fees.
   (D)   Disposition of unreleased vehicles. In the event that the owner,
lessee or lienholder of an impounded vehicle shall not retrieve an impounded
vehicle from a storage facility within 35 days after the hearing officer issues
a written determination in an administrative hearing conducted on the merits of
the impoundment of the vehicle, the vehicle in question shall be deemed to have
been abandoned and shall thereafter be disposed of in accordance with Article
II of Chapter 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (E)   Administrative fees, fines and penalties - expiration of time for
administrative review. Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any
fine, penalty or administrative fee imposed under this chapter which remains
unpaid in whole or in part after the expiration for seeking judicial review
under the administrative review law may be enforced in the same manner as a
judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided in
Chapter 41.
   (F)   Waiver of administrative fee. The administrative fee imposed by this
chapter shall be waived by the village in any case where the village is
provided with verifiable proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time it was
impounded.
   (G)   Waiver of impoundment. The sworn officer in charge of the arrest for
the offense underlying an impoundment may waive the impoundment of a vehicle
only when in their reasonable judgment the impoundment would interfere with the
provision of police services, adversely affect public safety and the vehicle in
question is then lawfully parked or will be driven from the scene of the arrest
by a licensed driver upon the effectively given consent of the lawful owner of
the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 81.251) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 24-1893, passed 1-
17-2024)
§ 78.39 POST-TOW HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Opportunity for hearing. The owner or party entitled to possession of
a vehicle towed pursuant to §
78.32(B), (B)(1) or (C) shall be provided the opportunity for a post-tow
hearing to determine the validity of such tow and any towing or storage
charges. The hearing will not be determinative of, or adjudicate, any citation
issued relative to any towed vehicle.
   (B)   Appointment of hearing officer and nature of the hearing. The nature
of the hearing and the appointment of the hearing officer shall be the same as
set forth above in §
78.35.
   (C)   Conduct of post-tow hearings. The hearing officer shall review all
evidence presented by the vehicle owner and the Police Department or other
village employees, and shall make a finding in writing based upon the
preponderance of the evidence presented, as to the lawful authority for the
towing and storage of the vehicle.
   (D)   Post-tow hearing decision. For each hearing, the hearing officer shall
complete a post-tow hearing decision and attach such decision to the Police
Department’s original vehicle towing report, and supply a copy of the decision
to the owner by personal delivery if the owner is present, otherwise by mail
within seven days of the hearing.
   (E)   Decision to tow justified. If the preponderance of the evidence
supports towing and compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the hearing
officer shall direct that the tow was justified and towing and storage costs be
imposed upon the owner thereof. The fees to be charged for towing and storage
services shall be no more than the rates set out in this chapter.
   (F)   Decision to tow unjustified. If the preponderance of the evidence
fails to support towing of the vehicle, then the hearing officer may find the
village responsible for towing and storage fees.
   (G)   Reports and documents to be retained; contesting decisions. All
originals or copies of the notices, post-tow hearing decisions, towing reports
and any associated police reports or documents shall be retained by the Police
Department for a period of at least five years after each hearing, or after
each tow if no hearing was requested or held. The village or the owner may
contest the decision of the hearing officer in any manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 81.26) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 78.40 TOWING SERVICE SUBJECT TO ORDINANCE.
   Notwithstanding any other ordinance or statutory provisions to the contrary,
any towing service operator which tows on behalf of the village must perform
its services subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 81.27) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 78.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate §§
78.02 through
78.15 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $200 and not more
than $750 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of §
78.30 is guilty of a petty offense, consistent with 625 ILCS 5/4-214, as
amended:
      (1)   Shall be fined not less than $200 or more than $750; and
      (2)   Shall be required by the court to make a disposition of the
abandoned or unclaimed vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 81.99) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
APPENDIX A: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT VIOLATIONS
 
   The offenses for which vehicles may be impounded under §
78.38 shall be those identified in 625 ILCS 5/11-208.7(b), hereinafter set
forth:
   (1)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to Section 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS
5/36-1; or
   (2)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
Section 11-501 of this Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-501; or
   (3)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act, being
410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.; or
   (4)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, being 720 ILCS 570/100; or
   (5)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1
of the Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 24-1, 5/24-1.5 and 5/24-3.1; or
   (6)   Driving while a driver’s license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to Section 6-303 of this Code,
being 625 ILCS 5/6-303; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure
or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving)
or due to failure to comply with emission testing; or
   (7)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possession, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, being
625 ILCS 5/11-501 and 720 ILCS 570/100, respectively; or
   (8)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s license,
in violation of Section 6-101 of this Code, being 625 ILCS 5/6-101, if the
period of expiration is greater than one year; or
   (9)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver’s license or permit, in violation of Section 6-101 of this Code, being
625 ILCS 5/6-101, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver’s license or permit due to a person’s age; or
   (10)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated Section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of this Code,
being 625 ILCS 5/6-101, 625 ILCS 5/6-303 or 625 ILCS 5/11-501, respectively; or
   (11)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 or 16A of the Criminal
Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 16/ or 16A/; or
   (12)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 2012, when so provided by local ordinance; or
   (13)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of Section 11-503 of
this Code, being 625 ILCS 5/11-503;
      (A)   while the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
      (B)   in a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
(Prior Code, § 81, App. A) (Ord. 17-1383, passed 6-21-2017)
CHAPTER 79: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
      
II.   Odd-even parking restrictions
      
III.   Parking prohibited except certain hours
      
IV.   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited during certain times
      
V.   Parking zones: 24-hour parking permitted
      
VI.   Stop signs
      
VII.   One-way streets
      
VIII.   Angled parking
      
IX.   Speed restrictions
      
X.   Left turns prohibited
      
XI.   Yield signs
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   (A)   (1)   Schedule. Parking permanently prohibited on one side of street.
When parking is permanently prohibited on one side of the street, vehicles may
be permitted to park on the opposite side of the street without regard to the
calendar day of the year provided that when any snowfall exceeds two inches in
depth on the roadway, no parking shall be permitted on the roadway until such
time as the snow has been removed:
Ord. No. Date Street Description
Ord. No.         Date                 Street              Description
                                                          On 107th Street from
1044-88          8-3-1988             107th Street        Joliet Road east to
                                                          village limits
2764-00          5-17-2000            115th Street        On 115th Street
                                                          On the even side of
08-0719          10-15-2008           Alder Creek         Alder Creek from 1348
                                                          to 1384
                                                          On the odd side of
08-0719          10-15-2008           Alder Creek         Alder Creek from 209
                                                          to 233
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Alyssum Court       circle island of
                                                          Alyssum Court
                                                          On the entire circle
14-1108          10-1-2014            Amaryllis Court     island of Amaryllis
                                                          Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Amberleigh Court    circle island of
                                                          Amberleigh Court
31-01            2-21-2001            Anderson Drive      On Anderson Drive
                                                          On either side of
                                                          Anton Drive, except
                                                          that parking for
                                                          Village Fire
                                                          Department personnel
                                                          and Romeoville Fire
                                                          Academy personnel and
                                                          students shall be
2670-99; 15-1210 6-21-1999; 8-5-2015  Anton Drive         permitted at all
                                                          times on the south
                                                          side of Anton Drive
                                                          from a location 45
                                                          feet west of Anton
                                                          Drive to the eastern
                                                          lot line of the
                                                          property having a
                                                          common address of 130
                                                          Anton Drive
2764-00          5-17-2000            Arbor Drive         On Arbor Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Arborwood Circle    circle island across
                                                          from 1600 Arborwood
                                                          Circle
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Arborwood Circle    circle island across
                                                          from 1616 Arborwood
                                                          Circle
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Arborwood Circle    circle island across
                                                          from 1634 Arborwood
                                                          Circle
                                                          On the entire inner
                                                          circle island on
14-1108          10-1-2014            Arborwood Circle    Arborwood Circle at
                                                          the intersection with
                                                          Wesglen Parkway
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Arborwood Court     circle island of
                                                          Arborwood Court
07-0597          10-17-2007           Arbury Court        On the inner circle
                                                          of Arbury Court
19-1602          11-20-2019           Arsenal Road        Entire length within
                                                          village limits
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Aster Court         circle island of
                                                          Aster Court
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Aster Drive         circle island across
                                                          from 1650 Aster Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Autumn Woods Court  circle island of
                                                          Autumn Woods Court
958-86           8-6-1986             Avalon Avenue       South side
0041-03          6-18-2003            Azalea Circle       On Azalea Circle from
                                                          #135 to #1531
                                                          On Azalea Circle from
0041-03          6-18-2003            Azalea Circle       Wesglen Parkway to
                                                          #179 Azalea Circle
                                                          On the entire inner
                                                          circle island on
14-1108          10-1-2014            Baytree Drive       Baytree Drive at the
                                                          intersection with
                                                          Honeysuckle Drive
                                                          Parking prohibited on
14-1108          10-1-2014            Beechwood Road      one side of street,
                                                          as posted
                                                          On the east side of
31-01            2-21-2001            Belmont Drive       Independence
                                                          Boulevard to Anderson
                                                          Drive
                                                          Parking prohibited on
14-1108          10-1-2014            Birchwood Drive     one side of street,
                                                          as posted
17-1406          9-20-2017            Bluff Road          On Bluff Road within
                                                          the village limits
                                                          On the east side of
0041-03          6-18-2003            Bodega Drive        Bodega Drive from
                                                          Monterey Drive to
                                                          Sunset Pointe
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Briarcliff Court    circle island of
                                                          Briarcliff Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Brookstone Court    circle island of
                                                          Brookstone Court
                                                          On both sides of Old
15-1194          7-1-2015             Budler Road         Budler Road from
                                                          Taylor Road north to
                                                          village limits
                                                          On east side of
                                                          Budler Road from
15-1194          7-1-2015             Budler Road         Cobblestone Road
                                                          south to end of
                                                          roadway
                                                          On either side of
15-1194          7-1-2015             Budler Road         Budler Road from
                                                          Taylor Road to
                                                          Cobblestone Road
                                                          On both sides for 80
06-0427          7-19-2006            Canyon Drive        feet east/south of
                                                          Stonebrook Drive
07-0597          10-17-2007           Cedar Court         On the inner circle
                                                          of Cedar Court
                                                          On the south side
                                                          from Six Pines Drive
2050-90          2-7-1990             Cedarbend Drive     on the west to
                                                          Honeytree Drive on
                                                          the east
                                                          Parking prohibited on
14-1108          10-1-2014            Cedarbend Drive     one side of street,
                                                          as posted
2764-00          5-17-2000            Chamberlin Drive    On Chamberlin Drive
17-1406          9-20-2017            Chambers Drive      On Chambers Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Chaucer Court       circle island of
                                                          Chaucer Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Cherrywood Court    circle island on
                                                          Cherrywood Court
17-1430          12-6-2017            Chicago Tube Drive  On Chicago Tube Drive
                                                          Interior radius
                                                          adjacent to that
                                                          portion of the
22-1787          8-17-2022            Claire Avenue       frontage of 1217
                                                          Claire Avenue located
                                                          within 45 feet of the
                                                          intersecting point
                                                          thereof
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Clover Court        circle island of
                                                          Clover Court
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Columbine Circle    circle island of
                                                          Columbine Circle
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Columbine Court     circle island of
                                                          Columbine Court
                                                          North side of
14-1108          10-1-2014            Cranbrook Court     Cranbrook Court, east
                                                          of Honeytree Drive
                                                          On Creekside Drive
08-0719          10-15-2008           Creekside Drive     from Alder Creek
                                                          Drive to Weber Road
03-0085          12-3-2003            Crossroads Parkway  On Crossroads Parkway
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Daffodil Drive      circle island across
                                                          from 367 Daffodil
                                                          Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Dahlia Court        circle island of
                                                          Dahlia Court
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Dahlia Drive        circle island across
                                                          from 129 Dahlia Drive
                                                          On the entire circle
14-1108          10-1-2014            Daisy Circle West   island across from
                                                          307 Daisy Circle West
14-1108          10-1-2014            Daisy Court         On the entire circle
                                                          island of Daisy Court
                                                          North side of Devon
14-1108          10-1-2014            Devon Lane          Lane, east of
                                                          Honeytree Drive
                                                          On both sides for 80
06-0427          7-19-2006            Dollinger Drive     feet west/south of
                                                          Stonebrook Drive
                                                          North Side of
14-1108          10-1-2014            Dunbridge Lane      Dunbridge Lane, east
                                                          of Honeytree Drive
                                                          Parking prohibited on
14-1108          10-1-2014            Elmwood Road        one side of street,
                                                          as posted
08-0627          1-16-2008            Farmbrook Court     On the inner circle
                                                          of Farmbrook Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Fieldstone Court    circle island of
                                                          Fieldstone Court
2485-97          7-2-1997             Forestwood Drive    On Forestwood Drive
                                                          South side, from
12-0967          2-15-2012            Gainsborough Drive  Troxel Avenue to
                                                          Chelton Road
07-0597          10-17-2007           Gardiner Court      On the inner circle
                                                          of Gardiner Court
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Gladiolus Drive     circle island across
                                                          from 251 Gladiolus
                                                          Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Gleneagle Court     circle island of
                                                          Gleneagle Court
08-0627          1-16-2008            Glenhurst Court     On the inner circle
                                                          of Glenhurst Court
11-0928          10-5-2011            Grand Boulevard     Both sides from Romeo
                                                          Road to Weber Road
                                                          From Weber Road
                                                          westbound to the
05-0296          8-3-2005             Grand Haven Circle  private entrance gate
                                                          of Grand Haven
                                                          Community
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Grassy Knoll Court  circle island across
                                                          from 1866 Grassy
                                                          Knoll Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Grassy Knoll Court  circle island of
                                                          Grassy Knoll Court
                                                          On the north side and
                                                          on the westerly 300
                                                          feet on the south
1031-88          4-6-1988             Greenwood Avenue    side permissible.
                                                          Parking on Greenwood
                                                          Avenue limited to
                                                          motor vehicles of the
                                                          first division
                                                          North side of Harris
14-1108          10-1-2014            Harris Lane         Lane, east of
                                                          Honeytree Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Hawthorne Court     circle island of
                                                          Hawthorne Court
                                                          On either side except
2694-99          9-15-1999            Highpoint Drive     where authorized by
                                                          official signs
                                                          On both sides of
08-0691          8-6-2008             Hillcrest Drive     Hillcrest Drive from
                                                          Hudson Avenue to
                                                          Mystic Lane
                                                          Parking prohibited on
14-1108          10-1-2014            Honeybear Lane      one side of street,
                                                          as posted
                                                          South side of
10-0863          5-19-2010            Honeybear Lane      Honeybear Lane, east
                                                          of Honeytree Drive
14-1108          10-1-2014            Honeysuckle Drive   Entire length
                                                          On the east side from
                                                          Abbeywood Drive on
2003-89          5-17-1989            Honeytree Drive     the south to
                                                          Naperville Road on
                                                          the north
                                                          On both sides, from
                                                          Belmont Drive to the
2804-00          11-1-2000            Illinois Route 53   intersection of
                                                          Joliet Road and
                                                          Illinois Route 53
17-1430          12-6-2017            Innovation Drive    On Innovation Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Iris Circle         circle island of Iris
                                                          Circle
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Ivy Hill Court      circle island of Ivy
                                                          Hill Court
                                                          On both sides from
2804-00          11-1-2000            Joliet Road         Illinois Route 53 to
                                                          Internationale
                                                          Parkway
14-1108          10-1-2014            Jonquil Drive       Entire length
                                                          Interior radius of
                                                          curve adjacent to
                                                          that portion of the
22-1787          8-17-2022            Julia Drive         frontage of 1228
                                                          Julia Drive located
                                                          within 45 feet of the
                                                          intersecting point
                                                          thereof
                                                          On the south side
0041-03          6-18-2003            Key Largo Drive     only, between #179 to
                                                          #1201
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Kentland Court      circle island of
                                                          Kentland Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Kentland Drive      circle island across
                                                          from 16 Kentland
                                                          Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Kentland Drive      circle island across
                                                          from 69 Kentland
                                                          Drive
                                                          On the east side of
11-0928          10-5-2011            Kingston Drive      Kingston Drive within
                                                          20 feet of Glen
                                                          Avenue
                                                          On the west side of
11-0928          10-5-2011            Kingston Drive      Kingston Drive within
                                                          20 feet of Glen
                                                          Avenue
                                                          On the west side of
11-0928          10-5-2011            Kingston Drive      Kingston Drive within
                                                          20 feet of Kenyon
                                                          Avenue
                                                          On the west side of
11-0928          10-5-2011            Kingston Drive      Kingston Drive within
                                                          20 feet of Laurel
                                                          Avenue
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Lake Shore Court    circle island of Lake
                                                          Shore Court
2764-00          5-17-2000            Lakeview Court      On Lakeview Court
2764-00          5-17-2000            Lakeview Drive      On Lakeview Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Lilac Drive         circle island across
                                                          from 263 Lilac Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Longwood Court      circle island of
                                                          Longwood Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Mayfield Court      circle island of
                                                          Mayfield Court
                                                          On both sides of
08-0691          8-6-2008             Misty Ridge Drive   Misty Ridge Drive
                                                          from Normantown Road
                                                          to Sunrise Drive
                                                          From the eastern side
                                                          of the driveway of
2136-91          10-2-1991            Montrose Drive      416 Montrose to the
                                                          extreme northern
                                                          property line of 439
                                                          Montrose
                                                          From the extreme
                                                          eastern property line
2136-91          10-2-1991            Montrose Drive      of 417 Montrose to
                                                          the extreme southern
                                                          property line of 434
                                                          Montrose
                                                          On either side of
2012-89          6-21-1989            Montrose Drive      Montrose Drive from
                                                          421 to 432
                                                          On Montrose Drive
                                                          from the eastern side
31-01            2-21-2001            Montrose Drive      of Independence
                                                          Boulevard to Anderson
                                                          Drive
                                                          On the north side
                                                          between Dalhart
1019-87          10-14-1987           Montrose Drive      Avenue on the west
                                                          and the village
                                                          property on the east
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Morgan Court        circle island of
                                                          Morgan Court
0041-03          6-18-2003            Murphy Drive        On Murphy Drive west
                                                          of Malibu Drive
                                                          On the south side of
                                                          Murphy Drive from the
11-0928          10-5-2011            Murphy Drive        east side of 111
                                                          Murphy to Kirman
                                                          Avenue
                                                          On the south side of
                                                          Murphy Drive from the
11-0928          10-5-2011            Murphy Drive        west side of 103
                                                          Murphy Drive to Route
                                                          53
                                                          On the south side of
08-0691          8-6-2008             Mystic Lane         Mystic Lane the
                                                          length of the corner
                                                          lot of 784
                                                          From Kentland Drive
05-0296          8-3-2005             Newcastle Drive     to Parkview West
                                                          Circle
                                                          Parking is permitted
                                                          on the south side of
976-86           10-22-1986           Newland Avenue      Newland Avenue on
                                                          election or special
                                                          election days during
                                                          polling hours
                                                          On Normantown Road
03-0085          12-3-2003            Normantown Road     from Route 53 to
                                                          Weber Road
                                                          On the east side of
                                                          Oak Creek Lane from
08-0719          10-15-2008           Oak Creek Lane      205 Oakcreek Lane to
                                                          Alder Creek Drive (no
                                                          parking here to
                                                          corner)
                                                          On the even side of
08-0719          10-15-2008           Oak Creek Lane      Oakcreek Lane from
                                                          200 to 294
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Olde English Court  circle island of Olde
                                                          English Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Olde English Drive  circle island across
                                                          from 50 Olde English
                                                          Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Pebblestone Drive   circle island across
                                                          from 1797 Pebblestone
                                                          Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Pebblestone Drive   circle island across
                                                          from 1857 Pebblestone
                                                          Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Pembroke Court      circle island of
                                                          Pembroke Court
                                                          North/west side,
24-1935          9-18-2024            Phelps Avenue       between Illinois
                                                          Route 53 and
                                                          Devonwood
                                                          South/east side,
                                                          between Illinois
                                                          Route 53 and
24-1935          9-18-2024            Phelps Avenue       Devonwood, except
                                                          that parking shall be
                                                          allowed on the south/
                                                          east side as posted
                                                          by signage
08-0627          1-16-2008            Pinetree Court      On the inner circle
                                                          of Pinetree Court
06-0376          2-15-2006            Pinnacle Drive      On Pinnacle Drive
                                                          On the south side of
31-01            2-21-2001            Poplar Boulevard    Romeo Road through
                                                          the median
                                                          On the entire inner
                                                          circle island on
14-1108          10-1-2014            Poppy Drive         Poppy Drive at the
                                                          intersection with
                                                          Honeysuckle Drive
14-1089          2-5-2014             Prologis Parkway    On both sides of
                                                          Prologis Parkway
                                                          On the north side of
                                                          Ridgewood Avenue from
                                                          Route 53 east 100
                                                          feet, with the
998-87; 24-1935  5-20-1987; 9-18-2024 Ridgewood Avenue    remaining frontage of
                                                          the north side of
                                                          Ridgewood Avenue to
                                                          be posted as parallel
                                                          parking only
                                                          Parking prohibited on
                                                          the south side of
24-1935          9-18-2024            Ridgewood Avenue    Ridgewood Avenue from
                                                          Route 53 to Rocbaar
                                                          Drive
                                                          Parking prohibited on
14-1108          10-1-2014            Robin Drive         one side of street,
                                                          as posted
16-1276          4-20-2016            Rock Road           Entire length of Rock
                                                          Road, both sides
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Rose Court          circle island of Rose
                                                          Court
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Rose Circle         circle island of Rose
                                                          Circle
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Rosehill Court      circle island of
                                                          Rosehill Court
08-0627          1-16-2008            Saybrook Court      On the inner circle
                                                          of Saybrook Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Sedgewicke Court    circle island of
                                                          Sedgewicke Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Sedgewicke Drive    circle island across
                                                          from 2031 Sedgewicke
                                                          Drive
17-1406          9-20-2017            Sherman Road        On Sherman Road
07-0597          10-17-2007           Sherwood Court      On the inner circle
                                                          of Sherwood Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Shoreline Court     circle island of
                                                          Shoreline Court
                                                          On the north side of
08-0691          8-6-2008             Sleepy Hollow Lane  Sleepy Hollow Lane
                                                          the length of the
                                                          corner lot of 721
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Somerset Court      circle island of
                                                          Somerset Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Somerset Drive      circle island across
                                                          from 1955 Somerset
                                                          Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Somerset Drive      circle island across
                                                          from 1995 Somerset
                                                          Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Southport Court     circle island of
                                                          Southport Court
                                                          On Spangler Avenue
Res.             4-16-1975            Spangler Avenue     (formerly Front
                                                          Street) north of
                                                          Phelps Avenue
                                                          On the east side of
                                                          Spangler Avenue from
15-1182          3-18-2015            Spangler Avenue     Alexander Circle
                                                          south to end of
                                                          roadway south of
                                                          Amherst Avenue
                                                          On the east side of
                                                          Spangler Avenue from
15-1182          3-18-2015            Spangler Avenue     Elgin Avenue to the
                                                          north end of roadway
                                                          near Belmont Avenue
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Spring Hill Court   circle island of
                                                          Spring Hill Court
                                                          On both sides for 80
06-0427          7-19-2006            Stone Bluff Drive   feet east/south of
                                                          Stonebrook Drive
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Sunflower Court     circle island across
                                                          from 1646 Sunflower
                                                          Court
                                                          On the entire inner
                                                          circle island on
14-1108          10-1-2014            Sunflower Drive     Sunflower Drive at
                                                          the intersection with
                                                          Wesglen Parkway
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Sutcliffe Court     circle island of
                                                          Sutcliffe Court
31-01            2-21-2001            Taylor Road         On Taylor Road
14-1089          2-5-2014             Theodore Court      On both sides of
                                                          Theodore Court
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Violet Drive        circle island of
                                                          across from 289
                                                          Violet Drive
07-0597          10-17-2007           Walden Court        On the inner circle
                                                          of Walden Court
                                                          On the entire inner
14-1108          10-1-2014            Watercrest Court    circle island of
                                                          Watercrest Court
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Wedgeport Circle    circle island across
                                                          from 2001 Wedgeport
                                                          Circle
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Wedgeport Court     circle island of
                                                          Wedgeport Court
14-1108          10-1-2014            Wesglen Parkway     Entire length
0041-02          6-12-2002            Weslake Parkway     On Weslake Parkway
2764-00          5-17-2000            Wespark Boulevard   On Wespark Boulevard
2764-00          5-17-2000            Wespark Circle      On Wespark Circle
2764-00          5-17-2000            Wespark Parkway     On North Wespark
                                      (north)             Parkway
2764-00          5-17-2000            Wespark Parkway     On South Wespark
                                      (south)             Parkway
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Westridge Court     circle island of
                                                          Westridge Court
07-0597          10-17-2007           Wildwood Court      On the inner circle
                                                          of Wildwood Court
08-0627          1-16-2008            Willow Court        On the inner circle
                                                          of Willow Court
2764-00          5-17-2000            Windham Parkway     On Windham Parkway
                                                          On the entire inner
12-1002          7-18-2012            Winding Ridge Court circle island of
                                                          Winding Ridge Court
                                                          North side of Windsor
14-1108          10-1-2014            Windsor Lane        Lane, east of
                                                          Honeytree Drive
                                                          On east side only
0041-03; 03-0098 6-18-2003; 12-17-    Zinnia Drive        between Gladiolus
                 2003                                     Circle and Daffodil
                                                          Drive
 
      (2)   Parking permanently prohibited, both sides of street. Parking shall
be prohibited at all times on both sides of the street at the following
locations:
 
Ord No. Date      Street           Description
23-1864 10-4-2023 Gaskin Drive     North side, from Weber Road east to village
                                   limits
23-1864 10-4-2023 Heritage Parkway East side, from 135th to Princeton
                                   East side, from Ridgewood Avenue south to
23-1864 10-4-2023 Parkwood Avenue  the northernmost curb cut/driveway entrance
                                   to 719 Parkwood Avenue
24-1935 9-18-2024 Parkwood Drive   Between Greenwood/Forestwood and Ridgewood
                                   Avenue
24-1935 9-18-2024 Rocbaar Drive    Between Ridgewood Avenue and the westernmost
                                   driveway serving 260 Rocbaar Drive
23-1864 10-4-2023 Sunset Pointe    West side, from 135th to Princeton
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating Ord. 847 shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense, and separate
offenses shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which a
violation continues or exists.
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. I) (Ord. 23-1852, passed 5-3-2023; Ord. 23-1864,
passed 10-4-2023; Ord. 24-1935, passed 9-18-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. ODD-EVEN PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever any snowfall within any 24-hour period causes an accumulation
of snow on any public street or roads of the village to a depth of two inches
or more, and until such time as snow removal operations are completed, it shall
be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or permit a vehicle owned by that
person to be parked at locations on any village street or roads where parking
is normally permitted.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, vehicles which
are not otherwise prohibited by this code from parking on village streets or
roads shall be permitted to park along the odd-numbered side of village streets
on odd-numbered calendar days and on the even-numbered side of village streets
on even numbered calendar days. The regulations set forth in the preceding
sentence shall remain in effect until such time as snow removal operations are
completed. For purposes of this division (B), a calendar day shall commence at
6:00 a.m. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the mere passage of
time, without more, shall not serve as or provide a defense to any violation of
the provisions of this schedule, including, but not limited to, this schedule.
      (1)   Any vehicles parked on village streets or roads in violation of the
provisions of division (B) above shall be subject to immediately being ticketed
for the violation, and shall also be subject to the immediate placement of a
“notice of intent to tow” sticker in accordance with the provisions of §
78.34, which sticker shall provide that the vehicle upon which it is placed is
subject to tow after the passage of 24 hours from the placement of the sticker.
The owner or person entitled to possession of any such vehicle shall be
entitled to request a post-tow hearing in accordance with the provisions of §
78.36.
      (2)   Any vehicles parked on village streets or roads during the snowfall
event described above in division (A) and prior to the completion of snow
removal operations, in violation of any of the provisions of this schedule
other than division (B) above, shall be subject to an immediate tow as
hazardous vehicles pursuant to §
78.32(B), and shall be entitled to a post tow notice and opportunity for
hearing as set forth in §§
78.37 and
78.39.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this schedule, parking shall
be prohibited:
      (1)   At all locations and at all times where parking is otherwise
prohibited under this chapter or any otherwise applicable provision of this
code;
      (2)   At any location on any dead-end street or road that is within 30
feet of the end of the dead-end street or road, during the circumstances
defined in division (A) above;
      (3)   At any time on any location on the following listed streets and
roads within the village, during the circumstances described in division (A)
above:
Arlington Drive   Entire length of Arlington Drive
Aster Drive       From Sierra Trail to Zinnia Drive
                  On Belmont Court from the beginning of the circle at 702
Belmont Court     Belmont Court around and to the end of the circle at 703
                  Belmont Court
Belmont Drive     Entire length of Belmont Drive
Fernwood Court    On Fernwood Court
Hamrick Avenue    Entire length of Hamrick Avenue
Heritage Parkway  Entire length of Heritage Parkway
Kingston Drive    On Kingston Drive from Arlington Drive to Glen Avenue
Malibu Drive      Entire length of Malibu Drive
Montrose Drive    Entire length of Montrose Drive
Murphy Drive      Entire length of Murphy Drive
Redondo Drive     Entire length of Redondo Drive
Richmond Drive    Entire length of Richmond Drive
Sierra Trail      From Summerfield Drive to Aster Court
Summerfield Drive From Budler Road to Sierra Trail
Sunset Pointe     From Redondo Drive to Romeo Road
Zachary Drive     Entire length of Zachary Drive
Zinnia Drive      Entire length of Zinnia Drive
 
      (4)   At any time on the indicated locations on the following listed
streets and roads within the village; provided, however, that notwithstanding
any contrary provision of this code, vehicles shall, during the circumstances
described in division (A) above, be permitted to park on the sides of the
following listed streets where parking is not generally prohibited:
Arbury Court    West side of Arbury Court from the south property line of 710
                Arbury Court to the north property line of 710 Arbury Court
Beechwood Road  Parking prohibited on one side of street, as posted
Birchwood Drive Parking prohibited on one side of street, as posted
Cedar Court     West side of Cedar Court from the south property line of 609
                Cedar Court to the north property line of 609 Cedar Court
Cedarbend Drive Parking prohibited on one side of street, as posted
Cranbrook Court South side of Cranbrook Court, east of Honeytree Drive
Devon Lane      South side of Devon Lane, east of Honeytree Drive
Dunbridge Lane  South side of Dunbridge Lane, east of Honeytree Drive
Elmwood Road    Parking prohibited on one side of street, as posted
Gardiner Court  West side of Gardiner Court from the south property line of 510
                Gardiner Court to the north property line of 510 Gardiner Court
                East side of Glenhurst Court from the south property line of
Glenhurst Court 607 Glenhurst Court to the north property line of 607 Glenhurst
                Court
                West side of Glenhurst Court from the south property line of
Glenhurst Court 610 Glenhurst Court to the north property line of 610 Glenhurst
                Court
Harris Lane     South side of Harris Lane, east of Honeytree Drive
Honeybear Lane  Parking prohibited on one side of street, as posted
Pinetree Court  West side of Pinetree Court from the south property line of 710
                Pinetree Court to the north property line of 710 Pinetree Court
Robin Drive     Parking prohibited on one side of street, as posted
Saybrook Court  East side of Saybrook Court from the south property line of 708
                Saybrook Court to the north property line of 708 Saybrook Court
Sherwood Court  West side of Sherwood Court from the south property line of 609
                Sherwood Court to the north property line of 609 Sherwood Court
Walden Court    East side of Walden Court from the south property line of 407
                Walden Court to the north property line of 407 Walden Court
Wildwood Court  West side of Wildwood Court from the south property line of 409
                Wildwood Court to the north property line of 409 Wildwood Court
Willow Court    East side of Willow Court from the south property line of 508
                Willow Court to the north property line of 508 Willow Court
Willow Court    West side of Willow Court from the south property line of 509
                Willow Court to the north property line of 509 Willow Court
Windsor Lane    South side of Windsor Lane, east of Honeytree Drive
 
   (D)   The parking of any motor vehicle in violation of the provisions of
this schedule shall be deemed to impede proper snow removal by the village, and
any such motor vehicle shall be deemed a hazardous vehicle within the meaning
set forth therefor in §
78.01, except that any vehicle parked in violation of the provisions of
divisions (B) or (B)(1) above shall be deemed to be an odd-even violation
vehicle within the meaning set forth therefor in §
78.01. Pursuant to §
78.32(B), any such hazardous vehicle shall be subject to immediate tow without
prior notice, subject to a post-tow hearing in accordance with §§
78.37 and
78.39. Pursuant to §
78.32(C), any such odd-even violation vehicle shall be subject to tow upon
prior notice and subject to a post-tow hearing, in accordance with §§
78.34 and
78.36.
   (E)   (1)   Honeytree Drive/Six Pines Drive. Notwithstanding any contrary
provision of divisions (A) or (B) above, parking of motor vehicles shall be
permitted at all times on the outer sides of Honeytree Drive and Six Pines
Drive, as posted. Additionally, parking of motor vehicles shall be permitted on
the inner sides of Honeytree Drive and Six Pines Drive, subject to the
provisions of division (A) above, but notwithstanding any contrary provision of
division (B) above, as posted.
      (2)   Harmony Lane. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of divisions
(A) or (B) above, parking of motor vehicles shall be permitted at all times on
the east side of Harmony Lane, from Highpoint Drive to Taylor Road, as posted.
Additionally, parking of motor vehicles shall be permitted on the west side of
Harmony Lane, from Highpoint Drive to Taylor Road, subject to the provisions of
division (A) above, but notwithstanding any contrary provision of division (B)
above, as posted.
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. II) (Ord. 14-1108, passed 10-1-2014; Ord. 15-1171,
passed 1-21-2015; Ord. 17-1351, passed 2-15-2017)
SCHEDULE III. PARKING PROHIBITED EXCEPT CERTAIN HOURS.
   There shall be no parking between certain hours on the following designated
roadways located within the village:
 
Ord. No. Date      Street           Description
                                    No parking on the west side of Belmont
                                    Drive from Romeo Road to Belmont Court
18-1458  1-17-2018 Belmont Drive    between 7:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and between
                                    1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. on all days in
                                    which school is in session
1031-88  4-6-1988  Greenwood Avenue South side, no parking from 12:00 a.m. to
                                    6:00 a.m.
998-87   5-20-1987 Ridgewood Avenue No parking from 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. III) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN TIMES.
   There shall be no stopping, standing or parking during certain hereinafter
designated hours on the following designated roadways within the village:
 
Ord. No. Date      Street        Description
                                 No stopping, standing or parking on the east
                                 side of Belmont Drive from Romeo Road to
18-1458  1-17-2018 Belmont Drive Newland Avenue between 7:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
                                 and between 1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. on all
                                 days in which school is in session
                                 No stopping, standing or parking on both the
                                 north and south sides of Palmer Avenue from
18-1458  1-17-2018 Palmer Avenue Belmont Drive to Berkshire Avenue between 7:30
                                 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and between 1:00 p.m. and
                                 3:00 p.m. on all days in which school is in
                                 session
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. IIIA) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. PARKING ZONES: 24-HOUR PARKING PERMITTED.
   When any snowfall exceeds two inches in depth on the roadway, no parking
shall be permitted on the roadway until such time as the snow has been removed.
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. IV) (Ord. 14-1108, passed 10-1-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. STOP SIGNS.
   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by a
stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersection roadway before entering the
intersection. The driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has
entered the intersection from another roadway, or which is approaching so
closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time
when the driver is moving across or within the intersection; but the driver,
having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval occurs.
   (A)   Four-way stop intersections; signs at:
Amberleigh Drive and Fairfield Drive and Amberleigh Court
Arlington Drive and Dalhart Avenue
Arlington Drive and Kingston Drive
Arlington Drive and Montrose Drive
Ashbrooke Road and Stonebrook Drive
Belmont Drive and Dalhart Avenue
Belmont Drive and Kingston Drive
Belmont Drive and Montrose Drive
Belmont Drive and Murphy Drive
Belmont Drive and Romeo Road
Fair Meadows Drive and Grand Boulevard
Grand Avenue and Maggie Lane
Helen Drive and Stonebrook Drive
Highpoint Drive and WesPark Boulevard
Hillcrest Drive and Hudson Avenue (north)
Honeytree Drive and Abbeywood Drive
Honeytree Drive and Naperville Road
Hudson Avenue and Rogers Road
Lakeview Drive and Windham Parkway
Macon Avenue and Arnold Avenue
Macon Avenue and Romeo Road
McKool Avenue and Kirman/Gordan Avenues
Michigan Drive and Ontario Drive
Misty Ridge Drive/Kingston Drive and Normantown Road
Murphy Drive and Hemlock Avenue
Murphy Drive and Kirman Avenue
Murphy Drive and Malibu Drive
Murphy Drive and Troxel Avenue
Murphy Drive and West Savannah Drive and Shenandoah Drive
Naperville Drive and Enterprise Drive
Naperville Drive and Six Pines Drive
Ontario Drive and Huron Drive
Parkview Drive and Weslake Parkway
Richfield Trail and Melissa Circle and Rachel Circle
Sierra Trail and Raleigh Trail/Richmond Drive
Sierra Trail and Summerfield Drive/Summerfield Court
Taylor Road and Budler Road (east intersection)
Tuscany Lane and Budler Road
Weslake Parkway and Budler Road
Zinnia Drive and Aster Drive and Aster Court
 
   (B)   Three-way stop intersections; signs at:
Abbeywood Drive and Rockledge Drive
Arsenal Road and Newland Avenue
Arsenal Road and Romeoville Recreation Center east parking lot entrance
Ashbrooke Road and Windcrest Drive
Ashbury Lane and Rose Lane and Rose Circle
Aster Drive and Sierra Trail
Bodega Drive and Murphy Drive
Dollinger Drive and Ashbrooke Road
Eaton Avenue and Hayes Avenue
Edgewater Drive and Lake Shore Drive
Essex Avenue and Echo Avenue
Fenton Avenue and Glen Avenue
Fenton Avenue and Hudson Avenue
Gardner Court and Six Pines Drive
Golden Rod Avenue and Prairie Clover Drive
Greenwood Avenue and Parkwood Avenue and Forestwood Drive
Hamrick Avenue and Hickory Avenue
Hamrick Avenue and Linden Avenue
Hamrick Avenue and Troxel Avenue
Helen Drive and Wynbrook Road
Hemlock Avenue and Homer Avenue
Hillcrest Avenue and Corona Avenue
Honeytree Drive and Farmbrook Court
Kentland Drive (east) and Whitecliffe Drive
Kentland Drive (west) and Whitecliffe Drive
Malibu Drive and Monterey Drive
Marquette Drive and Naperville Drive
McKool Avenue and Gordan Avenue (west)
Monterey Drive and Bodega Drive
Montrose Drive and Kingston Drive
Montrose Drive and Nelson Avenue
Naperville and Pine Trail Drive
Newcastle Drive and Kentland Drive
Normantown Road and Meadowdale Drive
Pembrooke Drive and Somerset Drive
Rocbaar Drive and Forestwood Drive
Rodgers Road and Iola Avenue and Jordan Avenue
Sherman Road and Bluff Road
Sleepy Hollow Lane and Hillcrest Drive
Spangler Avenue and Arlington Drive
Spangler Avenue and McKool Avenue
Spangler Avenue and Murphy Drive
Stonebrook Drive and Dollinger Drive
Sunrise Drive and Hillcrest Drive
Sunrise Drive and Misty Ridge Drive
Superior Drive and Erie Drive
Taylor Road and Budler Road (west intersection)
Town Hall Drive and Alexander Circle
Town Hall Drive and Phelps Avenue
Wesglen Parkway and Honeysuckle Drive
Weslake Parkway and Newcastle Drive
Willow Court and Six Pines Drive
Whitmore Drive and Teepee Lane
Whitmore Drive and Wallace Way
Zachary Drive and Edward Drive
Zinnia Drive and Gladiolus Drive
 
   (C)   Two-way stop intersections; signs at:
135th Street and High Road (off-set)
Austrian Drive and Six Pines Drive
Belmont Drive and Camden Avenue
Belmont Drive and Hamrick Avenue
Camden and Montrose (northwest corner)
Cedarbend Drive and Honeytree Drive
Concord Avenue and Belmont Drive
Eastbound at Grand Boulevard and the eastern entrance to Village Hall Parking
Eastbound at Grand Boulevard and the western exit from Village Hall Parking
Eastern entrance of Village Hall Parking to Grand Boulevard
Essex Avenue and Ambassador Avenue
Essington Lane and Meadowdale Drive
Everette Avenue and Belmont Drive
Fenton Avenue and Arlington Drive
Fenton Avenue and Belmont Drive
Gavin Avenue and Murphy Drive
Glen Avenue and Arlington Drive
Glen Avenue and Belmont Drive
Glen Avenue and Kingston Drive
Highpoint Drive and the Friendship Centre
Hudson Avenue and Normantown Road
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Phelps Avenue
Kenyon Avenue and Belmont Drive
Laurel Avenue and Belmont Drive
Montrose and Camden (southeast corner)
Murphy Drive and Hickory Avenue
Naperville Road and Schmidt Road
Normantown Road and Rogers Road (off-set)
Princeton Avenue and Heritage Parkway
Roof Street and Poplar Boulevard
Spangler Avenue and Murphy Drive
Spangler Avenue and Romeo Plaza (east portion)
Taylor Road and Airport Road
Troxel Avenue and Haller Avenue
Troxel Avenue and Healy Avenue
Troxel Avenue and Tallman Avenue
Weber Road and Lakeview Drive/Frontage Road (northwest)
Wedgeport Circle and Parkview West (south)
Westbound at Grand Boulevard and the eastern entrance to Village Hall Parking
Westbound at Grand Boulevard and the western exit from Village Hall Parking
Western exit from Village Hall Parking to Grand Boulevard
Wild Indigo and Ontario Drive
 
   (D)   One-way stop intersections; signs at:
Abbeywood Drive and Fernwood Court
Abbeywood Drive and Schmidt Road
Amberleigh Drive and Weslake Parkway
Amhurst Avenue and Belmont Drive
Anderson Drive and Independence Boulevard
Arbor Drive and Lakeview Drive
Arborwood Circle and Wesglen Parkway
Arbury Court and Six Pines Drive
Arlington Drive and Lynn Avenue
Arsenal Road and Romeo Road (135th Street)
Ashbury Lane and Rose Court
Aspen Drive and Birch Lane
Austrian Drive and Ponderosa Drive
Autumn Woods Lane and Cherrywood Lane
Autumn Woods Lane and Woodhill Drive
Bayles Drive and Shannon Drive
Bayles Drive and Zachary Drive
Baytree Drive and Honeysuckle Drive
Baytree Drive and Violet Drive
Belmont Court and Belmont Drive
Belmont Drive and Anderson Drive
Belmont Drive and Arnold Avenue
Belmont Drive and Avalon Avenue
Belmont Drive and Beverly J. Griffin (Lake Shore) Drive
Belmont Drive and Newland Avenue
Berkshire Avenue and Belmont Drive
Biltmore Court and West Savannah Drive
Birch Lane and Haley Meadows Drive
Blue Aster Drive and Golden Rod Avenue
Blue Aster Drive and Sedge Meadow Drive
Briarwood Avenue and Poplar Boulevard
Briarwood Avenue (south end) and Poplar Boulevard
Briarwood Avenue (north end) and Poplar Boulevard
Brookstone Court and Gleneagle Drive
Calendula Court and South Wespark Parkway
Camden Avenue and Arlington Drive
Canterbury Trail and Weslake Parkway
Canyon Drive and Helen Drive
Canyon Drive and Stonebrook Drive
Cedar Court and Honeytree Drive
Charleston Court and East Savannah Drive
Chatham Drive and Sedgewicke Drive and Sutcliffe Drive
Chaucer Drive and Canterbury Trail
Cherrywood Lane and Woodhill Drive
Christopher Court East and Richfield Trail West
Christopher Court West and Richfield Trail West
Claire Drive and Julia Drive
Claire Drive and Romeo Road
Clifton Avenue and Belmont Drive
Clover Court and Dahlia Drive
Columbine Circle and Columbine Lane
Columbine Court and Violet Drive
Columbine Lane and Baytree Drive
Columbine Lane and Violet Drive
Coneflower Court and Coneflower Drive
Coneflower Drive and Haley Meadows Drive
Coral Reef Court and Murphy Drive
Coralbell Court and Wespark Boulevard
Coreopsis Court and South Wespark Parkway
Cranbrook Court and Honeytree Drive
Dahlia Drive and Daylily Drive
Dahlia Drive and Sunflower Drive
Daisy Court and East Daisy Circle
Dalhart Avenue and Alexander Circle
Devon Lane and Honeytree Drive
Dollinger Drive and Helen Drive
Driftwood Avenue and Briarwood Avenue
Dunbridge Lane and Honeytree Drive
East Savannah Drive and Murphy Drive
Eaton Avenue and Karen Avenue
Eaton Avenue and McKool Avenue
Edgewater Drive and Parkview Circle
Edward Drive and Grand Haven Circle
Edward Drive and Zachary Drive
Enterprise Drive and Anton Drive
Evan Court and Scott Lane
Everette Avenue and Arlington Drive
Farmbrook Court and Honeytree Drive
Fiddyment Drive and Kathleen Drive
Fiddyment Drive and Richfield Trail East
Fiddyment Drive and Richfield Trail West
Fieldstone Court and Gleneagle Drive
Foxglove Court and Wespark Boulevard
Freesia Court and Freesia Drive
Freesia Drive and North Wespark Parkway (north)
Freesia Drive and North Wespark Parkway (south)
Gardner Court and Six Pines Drive
Garland Avenue and Belmont Drive
Georgetown Avenue and Heritage Parkway
Georgetown Avenue and Murphy Drive
Gleneagle Drive and Parkview Drive
Glenhurst Court and Six Pines Drive
Golden Rod Avenue and Ontario Drive
Golden Rod Avenue and Prairie Clover Drive
Grand Haven Circle and Edward Drive
Grand Haven Circle and Zachary Drive
Grassy Knoll Drive and Parkview Drive
Haley Meadows Drive and Sedge Meadow Avenue
Half Moon Bay and Key Largo Drive
Halstead Avenue and Belmont Drive
Harris Drive and Honeytree Drive
Harvard Court and Heritage Parkway
Hawthorne Court and Cherrywood Lane
Heather Court and South Wespark Parkway
Helen Drive and Frontage Road
Helen Drive and Kathleen Drive/William Drive
Heritage Parkway and Murphy Drive
Heritage Parkway and Romeo Road
High Road and Jackson Street
High Road and Washington Street
Holden Avenue and Belmont Drive
Honeybear Lane and Honeytree Drive
Honeysuckle Drive and Jonquil Drive
Honeytree Drive and Beechwood Road
Hudson Avenue and Arlington Drive
Hudson Avenue and Hillcrest Avenue (south)
Huron Drive and Normantown Road
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Access Road north of Phelps Avenue
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Alexander Circle
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Arlington Drive
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Bull Run
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Chambers (Bluff) Drive
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Greenwood Avenue
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Honeytree Drive
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and McKool Avenue
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Montrose Drive
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Ridgewood Avenue
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Rock Road (disposal road)
Independence Boulevard (Route 53) and Romeo Plaza (east)
Iola Avenue and Arlington Drive
Iris Circle and Sunflower Drive
Jamestown Court and Murphy Drive
Joliet Road and Sherman Road
Jonquil Drive and Ashbury Lane
Jordan Avenue and Arlington Drive
Julia Drive and Claire Drive
Kathleen Drive and Scott Lane
Kentland Court and Kentland Drive
Key Largo Drive and Malibu Drive
Key Largo Drive and Murphy Drive
Kimberly Lane and Fiddyment Drive
Kimberly Lane and Richfield Trail East
Kirman Avenue and Haller Avenue
Kirman Avenue and Healy Avenue
Kirman Avenue and Tallman Avenue
Laguna Court and Bodega Drive
Lakeside Drive and Marquette Drive
Lakeview Drive and 119th Drive
Lakeview Drive and Lakeview Court
Lancaster Drive and Kentland Drive
Lancaster Drive and Taylor Road
Larkspur Court and North Wespark Parkway
Le Moyne Avenue and Grand Boulevard (east)
Le Moyne Avenue and Grand Boulevard (west)
Lilac Drive and East Daisy Circle
Lilac Drive and West Daisy Circle
Luther Drive and Arcadia Avenue
Luther Drive and Beacon Avenue
Luther Drive and Corona Avenue
Luther Drive and Hudson Avenue
Lynn Avenue and Normantown Road
Malibu Drive and Taylor Road
Mather Court and Hillcrest Drive
Mayfield Court and Amberleigh Drive
Meadowdale Drive and Birch Lane
Melissa Circle North and Richfield Trail West
Melissa Circle South and Richfield Trail West
Mendota Lane and Erie Drive
Mendota Lane and Ontario Drive
Michigan Drive and Normantown Road
Misty Ridge Drive and Hillcrest Drive
Montego Bay Court and Key Largo Drive
Montrose Drive and Civic Center Drive
Montrose Drive and Montclair Court (north)
Montrose Drive and Normantown Road
Mountain Laurel Court and South Wespark Parkway (north)
Mountain Laurel Court and South Wespark Parkway (south)
Murphy Drive and Ashton Avenue
Murphy Drive and Eaton Avenue
Murphy Drive and Emery Avenue
Murphy Drive and Evergreen Court (east)
Murphy Drive and Evergreen Court (west)
Murphy Drive and Hale Avenue
Mystic Lane and Hillcrest Drive
Mystic Lane and Sleepy Hollow Lane
Naperville Drive and Chambers (Bluff) Drive
Naperville Drive and Lakeside Drive
Naperville Drive and Pine Trail Drive
Nelson Avenue and Arlington Drive
Newcastle Drive and Parkview West
Newman Court and Erie Drive
Normantown Road and Dalhart Avenue
Normantown Road and Essex Avenue
Normantown Road and Frontage Road (southeast)
Normantown Road and Geneva Avenue
Normantown Road and Huron Drive
Normantown Road and Michigan Drive
Normantown Road and Town Hall Drive
North Wespark Parkway and Taylor Road
North Wespark Parkway and Wespark Circle
Oakridge Drive and Ridgewood Avenue
Ontario Drive and Superior Drive
Palmer Avenue and Belmont Drive
Parkview Circle and Edgewater Drive
Parkview Circle and Woodhill Drive
Parkview Drive and Grassy Knoll Drive
Parkview West and Chatham Drive
Parkwood Avenue and Devonwood Avenue
Parkwood Avenue and Ridgewood Avenue
Pebblestone Drive and Gleneagle Drive
Pebblestone Drive and Grassy Knoll Drive
Pembrooke Drive and Weslake Parkway
Peter Lane and Fiddyment Drive
Peter Lane and Richfield Trail East
Phelps Avenue and Devonwood Avenue
Pinetree Court and Honeytree Drive
Ponderosa Drive and Honeytree Drive
Poplar Avenue (north end) and Poplar Boulevard
Poplar Avenue (south end) and Poplar Boulevard
Poplar Boulevard and Murphy Drive
Poppy Drive and East and West Daisy Circle
Poppy Drive and Honeysuckle Drive
Prairie Clover Drive and Sedge Meadow Drive
Premrose Drive and Haley Meadows Drive
Princeton Drive and Bodega Drive
Princeton Drive and Malibu Drive
Rachel Circle North and Richfield Trail West
Rachel Circle South and Richfield Trail West
Rebecca Drive and Richfield Trail
Rebecca Drive and Richmond Drive
Renwick Road and Zachary Drive
Reston Circle and Richfield Trail (north)
Reston Circle and Richfield Trail (south)
Richfield Trail and Lockport Road
Richfield Trail and Richmond Drive
Richfield Trail East and Airport Road
Richfield Trail West and Airport Road
Richmond Court and Richmond Drive
Richmond Drive and Lockport Road
Roanoke Drive and Richfield Trail
Roanoke Drive and Richmond Drive
Rockledge Drive and Schmidt Road
Rodondo Drive and Sunset Pointe
Romeo Road and Eaton Avenue
Romeo Road and Emery Avenue
Romeo Road and Hale Avenue
Romeo Road and Hemlock Avenue
Romeo Road and Hickory Avenue
Romeo Road and Homer Avenue
Romeo Road and Poplar Boulevard
Romeo Road and Recreation Center Drive
Romeo Road and Romeoville Recreation Center west/center parking lot entrance/
exit
Romeo Road and Romeoville Recreation Center westerly parking lot entrance/exit
Rose Court and Ashbury Lane
Rose Lane and Ashbury Lane
Rudolph Court and Scott Lane
San Mateo Drive and Malibu Drive
San Mateo Drive and Sunset Pointe
Saratoga Lane and Sierra Trail
Saybrook Court and Six Pines Drive
Scott Lane and Richfield Trail West
Scott Lane and William Drive
Sedge Meadow Drive and Normantown Road
Sedge Meadow Drive and Ontario Drive
Shannon Drive and Bayles Drive
Shannon Drive and Grand Haven Circle
Shannon Drive and Zachary Drive
Sherwood Court and Six Pines Drive
Shore Line Drive and Lake Shore Drive
Sierra Trail and Ramsey Drive
Sierra Trail and Summerfield Drive
Six Pines Drive and Birchwood Drive
Six Pines Drive and Cedarbend Drive
Six Pines Drive and Elmwood Road
Six Pines Drive and Honeybear Lane
Sleepy Hollow Lane and Misty Ridge Drive
Snapdragon Court and North Wespark Parkway
Somerset Court and Somerset Drive
South Wespark Parkway and Wespark Circle
Spangler Avenue and Belmont Drive
Springhill Court and Lake Shore Drive
Stamford Lane and Sierra Trail
Stamford Lane and Summerfield Drive
Stillwater Court and Dollinger Drive
Stone Bluff Drive and Ashbrooke Road
Stone Bluff Drive and Stonebrook Drive
Strawflower Court and Wespark Boulevard
Sunflower Court and Dahlia Drive
Sunflower Drive and Daylily Drive
Sunflower Drive and Dahlia Drive
Sunflower Drive and Wesglen Parkway
Sunset Pointe and Princeton Avenue
Sunset Pointe and Romeo Road
Susan Street and Kathleen Drive
Susan Street and Rachel Court
Tacoma Court and Trafalger Drive
Tammanny Lane and Trafalger Drive
Tammanny Lane and Tuscony Lane
Tanager Court and Trafalger Drive
Teepee Lane and Tuscony Lane
Tilson Lane and Tammanny Lane
Tilson Lane and Trenton Drive
Trafalger Drive and Budler Road
Traverse Court and Tuscony Lane
Trenton Drive and Trafalger Court
Trenton Drive and Tuscony Court
Troxel Avenue and Taylor Road
Troy Court and Trafalger Drive
Two River Court and Trafalger Drive
Union Avenue and Belmont Drive
Union Avenue and Newland Avenue
Violet Drive and Columbine Lane
Violet Drive and Wesglen Parkway
Walden Court and Six Pines Drive
Wedgeport Circle and Wedgeport Circle
Wesglen Parkway and Taylor Road
Weslake Parkway and Taylor Road
Wespark Boulevard and Highpoint Drive
Wespark Boulevard and Wespark Circle
Wespark Parkway and Freesia Drive
Wespark Parkway and Taylor Road
West Savannah Drive and Murphy Drive
Westridge Court and Somerset Drive
White Cliffe Drive and Kentland Drive East
White Cliffe Drive and Kentland Drive West
Wilco Boulevard and Renwick Road
Wildwood Court and Six Pines Drive
William Drive and Richfield Trail East
Willow Court and Six Pines Drive
Windflower Court and North Wespark Parkway
Windsor Lane and Honeytree Drive
Woodhill Drive and Parkview Circle
Yarrow Court and Wespark Boulevard
Yates Avenue and Belmont Drive
Yates Avenue and Newland Avenue
Zachary Drive and Bayles Drive
Zachary Drive and Grand Haven Circle
Zachary Drive and Renwick Road
Zachary Drive and Shannon Drive
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. V) (Ord. 2229-93, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2520-97,
passed 10-15-1997; Ord. 2609-98, passed 10-21-1998; Ord. 2657-99, passed 4-19-
1999; Ord. 3693-99, passed 9-15-1999; Ord. 2767-00, passed 5-17-2000; Ord. 31-
01, passed 2-21-2001; Ord. 0059-02, passed 9-5-2002; Ord. 0103-02, passed 12-
18-2002; Ord. 0056-02, passed 8-21-2002; Ord. 0069-02, passed 9-18-2002; Ord.
0041-03, passed 6-18-2003; Ord. 05-0296, passed 8-3-2005; Ord. 06-0427, passed
7-19-2006; Ord. 06-0468, passed 11-1-2006; Ord. 07-0538, passed 5-16-2007; Ord.
07-0542, passed 6-6-2007; Ord. 08-0680, passed 6-18-2008; Ord. 09-0749, passed
2-18-2009; Ord. 09-0751, passed 3-4-2009; Ord. 13-1037, passed 2-6-2013; Ord.
13-1049, passed 9-4-2013; Ord. 13-1061, passed 9-4-2013; Ord. 14-1125, passed
7-2-2014; Ord. 16-1303, passed 7-20-2016; Ord. 17-1394, passed 8-16-2017; Ord.
17-1406, passed 9-20-2017; Ord. 18-1480, passed 5-2-2018; Ord. 19-1540, passed
2-6-2019; Ord. 20-1672, passed 11-18-2020; Ord. 24-1894, passed 1-17-2024; Ord.
24-1930, passed 8-21-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Ord. No. Date       Street
03-0098  12-17-2003 Arborwood Court
977-86   11-19-1986 Elmwood Road/Birchwood Drive
977-86   11-19-1986 Honeybear Lane/Elmwood Road
977-86   11-19-1986 Robbin Drive/Beechwood Road
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. VII)
SCHEDULE VIII. ANGLED PARKING.
   Angled parking shall be permitted in the following locations:
 
Ord. No. Date      Description
1003-87  7-22-1987 On the cul-de-sac of Belmont Court
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. VIII) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IX. SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   The speed limit at all times on all roadways within the corporate limits of
the village will be 25 mph unless otherwise posted. Speed restrictions shall be
enforced in the following locations.
   (A)   The maximum speed limit on Taylor Road, beginning at the intersection
of Taylor Road and Weber Road and ending at the westernmost boundary of the
village (Frontage Road), for all vehicles shall be 35 mph.
   (B)   The maximum speed limit on 135th Street (Romeo Road), beginning at the
westernmost boundary of the village recreation property located at 900 West
Romeo Road westerly to the intersection of 135th Street and Weber Road, for all
vehicles shall be 35 mph.
   (C)   The maximum speed limit on 135th Street (Romeo Road) from Route 53
(Independence Boulevard) to Macon Avenue for all vehicles shall be 35 mph.
   (D)   The maximum speed limit on Budler Road north and south from Taylor
Road to Airport Road for all vehicles shall be 35 mph.
   (E)   The maximum speed limit on Schmidt Road for all vehicles shall be 35
mph.
   (F)   The maximum speed limit on Crossroads Parkway for all vehicles shall
be 30 mph.
   (G)   The maximum speed limit on Grand Boulevard from Romeo Road to Anna
Lane for all vehicles shall be 20 mph.
   (H)   The maximum speed limit on Pinnacle Drive fo the interval beginning at
0.18 miles south of Key Largo drive to Taylor Rod for all vehicles shall be 30
mph.
   (I)   The maximum speed limit on Belmont Drive for the interval beginning at
0.21 miles south of Hamrick Avenue to Taylor Road for all vehicles shall be 30
mph.
   (J)   The maximum speed limit on Normantown Road from Route 53 (Independence
Boulevard) to Dalhart Avenue for all vehicles shall be 35 mph.
   (K)   The maximum speed limit on Normantown Road from Montrose Drive to
Weber Road for all vehicles shall be 30 mph.
   (L)   The maximum speed limit on Normantown Road from Weber Road to the west
entrance of Rasmussen College (1400 West Normantown Road) for all vehicles
shall be 30 mph.
   (M)   The maximum speed limit on Normantown Road from the west entrance to
Rasmussen College (1400 West Normantown Road) to a location 0.2 miles north of
135th Street for all vehicles shall be 40 mph.
   (N)   The maximum speed limit on Normantown Road from a location 0.2 miles
north of 135th Street to 135th Street for all vehicles shall be 30 mph.
   (O)   The maximum speed limit on 135th Street (Romeo Road) from New Avenue
to Route 53 (Independence Boulevard) for all vehicles shall be 40 mph.
   (P)   The maximum speed limit on Taylor Road from Route 53 (Independence
Boulevard) for one-half mile west for all vehicles shall be 30 mph.
   (Q)   The maximum speed limit on Taylor Road from one-half mile west of
Route 53 (Independence Boulevard) to Southcreek Parkway for all vehicles shall
be 40 mph.
   (R)   The maximum speed limit on Taylor Road from Southcreek Parkway to
Weber Road for all vehicles shall be 35 mph.
   (S)   The maximums speed on Southcreek Parkway from Taylor Road to Chicago
Tube Drive for all vehicles shall be 40 mph.
   (T)   The maximum speed limit on Southcreek Parkway from Chicago Tube Drive
to a location 0.25 miles east of Pinnacle Drive (on curve) for all vehicles
shall be 35 mph. This is near the location where Southcreek Parkway ends and
Airport Road begins.
   (U)   The maximum speed on Airport Road from Southcreek Parkway to Weber
Road for all vehicles shall be 40 mph.
   (V)   The maximum speed on Airport Road from Weber Road to a location 0.5
miles west of Weber Road for all vehicles shall be 40 mph.
   (W)   The maximum speed limit on Airport Road from a location 0.5 miles west
of Weber Road to Frontage Road for all vehicles shall be 35 mph.
   (X)   The maximum speed on the entire length of Arsenal Road within village
limits for all vehicles shall be 20 mph.
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. IX) (Ord. 658-89, passed 11-15-1989; Ord. 2451-96,
passed 12-18-1996; Ord. 2490-97, passed 8-6-1997; Ord. 2654-99, passed 4-19-
1999; Ord. 68-01, passed 5-16-2001; Ord. 0069-02, passed 9-10-2002; Ord. 0069-
02, passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 0087-02, passed 11-20-2002; Ord. 0095-02, passed 12-
4-2002; Ord. 03-0085, passed 12-3-2003; Ord. 05-0334, passed 11-2-2005; Ord.
06-0411, passed 5-3-2006; Ord. 06-0470, passed 11-1-2006; Ord. 11-0928, passed
10-5-2011; Ord. 16-1271, passed 4-6-2016; Ord. 19-1577, passed 6-19-2019; Ord.
20-1624, passed 2-5-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE X. LEFT TURNS PROHIBITED.
   Left turns shall be prohibited in the following locations:
 
Ord. No. Date       Description
                    All motorists exiting the Irene King Elementary School east
12-1012  10-17-2012 parking lot located at 301 Eaton Avenue are prohibited from
                    turning left onto Murphy Drive
                    All motorists exiting the R.C. Hill and Fountaindale
683-90   4-4-1990   parking lots on school days between the hours of 8:30 a.m.
                    to 9:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. are prohibited from
                    turning left onto Dalhart Avenue
                    All motorists traveling north on Belmont Drive shall be
                    prohibited from turning left onto Viking Lane at the A.
18-1458  1-17-2018  Vito Martinez School between 7:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and
                    between 1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. on all days in which school
                    is in session
                    All motorists traveling on Murphy Drive are prohibited from
12-1012  10-17-2012 turning left into the Irene King Elementary School east
                    parking lot located at 301 Eaton Avenue
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. X) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE XI. YIELD SIGNS.
   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience to
the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and, if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. The driver shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the
driver is moving across or within the intersection.
   (A)   Two-way yield intersections; signs at:
 
Corona Avenue and Farragut Avenue
Corona Avenue and Geneva Avenue
Murphy Drive  and Fremont Avenue
 
   (B)   One-way yield intersections; signs at:
Arcadia Avenue      and Farragut Avenue
Arcadia Avenue      and Geneva Avenue
Autumn Woods Court  and Autumn Woods Lane
Avalon Avenue       and Fairfax Avenue
Avalon Avenue       and Fremont Avenue
Avalon Avenue       and Kent Avenue
Beacon Avenue       and Ambassador Avenue (east)
Beacon Avenue       and Ambassador Avenue (west)
Beacon Avenue       and Cascade Avenue
Beacon Avenue       and Delta Avenue
Beacon Avenue       and Dexter Avenue
Beacon Avenue       and Echo Avenue
Beacon Avenue       and Essex Avenue
Berkshire Avenue    and Clifton Avenue
Berkshire Avenue    and Macon Avenue
Briarcliff Court    and Autumn Woods Lane
Camden Avenue       and Bristol Avenue
Camden Avenue       and Dover Avenue
Camden Avenue       and Elgin Avenue
Canterbury Trail    and Olde English Drive
Cascade Avenue      and Ambassador Avenue
Concord Avenue      and Bristol Avenue
Dexter Avenue       and Ambassador Avenue
Dexter Avenue       and Delta Avenue
Fairfax Avenue      and Kent Avenue
Hamrick Avenue      and Fremont Avenue
Hamrick Avenue      and Hemlock Avenue
Hamrick Avenue      and Nippert Avenue
Hickory Avenue      and Haller Avenue
Hickory Avenue      and Healy Avenue
Hickory Avenue      and Tallman Avenue
Hudson Avenue       and Farragut Avenue
Hudson Avenue       and Geneva Avenue
Ivy Hill Court      and Autumn Woods Lane
Kingston Drive      and Kenyon Avenue
Kingston Drive      and Laurel Avenue
Kirman Avenue       and Hayes Avenue
Kirman Avenue       and Karen Avenue
Kirman Avenue       and Pell Avenue
Lake Shore Court    and Lake Shore Drive
Macon Avenue        and Avalon Avenue
Macon Avenue        and Fairfax Avenue
Macon Avenue        and Palmer Avenue
Montrose Drive      and Camden Avenue
Montrose Drive      and Dalhart Avenue
Montrose Drive      and Everette Avenue
Montrose Drive      and Fenton Avenue
Montrose Drive      and Garland Avenue
Montrose Drive      and Glen Avenue
Montrose Drive      and Holden Avenue
Montrose Drive      and Kenyon Avenue
Montrose Drive      and Laurel Avenue
Montrose Drive      and Montclair Court (south)
Montrose Drive      and Spangler Avenue
Murphy Drive        and Fairfax Avenue
Murphy Drive        and Linden Avenue
Murphy Drive        and Nippert Avenue
Olde English Drive  and Chaucer Drive
Palmer Avenue       and Arnold Avenue
Palmer Avenue       and Berkshire Avenue
Rogers Road         and Hillcrest Avenue
Spangler Avenue     and Amhurst Avenue
Spangler Avenue     and Bristol Avenue
Spangler Avenue     and Concord Avenue
Spangler Avenue     and Dover Avenue
Spangler Avenue     and Elgin Avenue
Troxel Avenue       and Hayes Avenue
Troxel Avenue       and Pell Avenue
Winding Ridge Court and Lake Shore Drive
Winnebago Court     and Michigan Drive
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 80, Schd. XI) (Ord. 2228-93, passed 7-7-1993; Ord. 2521-97,
passed 10-15-1997; Ord. 2594-98, passed 8-5-1998; Ord. 2768-00, passed 5-17-
2000; Ord. 16-1303, passed 7-20-2016; Ord. 19-1540, passed 2-6-2019) Penalty,
see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   ALARM SYSTEMS
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and refuse, see
Chapter 58
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
90.001   License required
   
90.002   Applications
   
90.003   Fees
   
90.004   License tags
   
90.005   Running at large prohibited; enclosures, leashes or restraints
required
   
90.006   Female dogs in heat to be confined
   
90.007   Impounding dogs
   
90.008   Redeeming impounded dogs
Dangerous Animals; Rabies Control
   
90.020   Confinement required
   
90.021   Rabies vaccination; proof of same
   
90.022   Infected animals biting persons
   
90.023   Animals under quarantine
   
90.024   Killing rabid animals; removing animals from village limits
   
90.025   Physician’s and veterinarian’s reports
Animal Control
   
90.040   Animals disturbing neighborhood
   
90.041   Animals prohibited from village
   
90.042   Exceptions to prohibition
   
90.043   Limitation of animals
   
90.044   Exceptions to limitations
   
90.045   Animals running at large
   
90.046   Animal excrement
   
90.047   Tethering, extreme weather; animal cruelty in presence of child
   
90.048   Definitions
   
90.049   Vicious dog requirements
   
90.050   Vicious dog penalties
   
90.051   Dangerous dog requirements
   
90.052   Dangerous dog penalties
   
90.053   Nuisance dog requirements
   
90.054   Nuisance dog penalties
   
90.055   Nuisance animal requirements
   
90.056   Nuisance animal penalties
   
90.057   Obstructing impoundment
   
90.058   Unlawful entry into the pound
   
90.059   Animal waste
Cruelty to Animals
   
90.070   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
90.071   Definition
   
90.072   Poisoning domestic animals
Village Animal Warden
   
90.085   Creation of office; appointment
   
90.086   Powers and duties
   
90.087   Enforcement
   
90.088   Records and reports
   
90.089   Inciting animal fights
   
90.090   Hunting within village limits
Commercially Bred Animals in Pet Shops
   
90.105   Definitions
   
90.106   Restrictions on the retail sale of animals
   
90.107   Exemptions
   
90.108   Disclosures required
   
90.109   Enforcement
Pet Dealers
   
90.120   License required
   
90.121   Application for license
   
90.122   Investigation and issuance
 
   
90.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
**** DOGS AND CATS ****
§ 90.001 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat over the age of four
months in the village, unless the dog or cat is licensed as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969; Ord. 996-87, passed 5-20-
1987; Ord. 1013-87, passed 9-2-1987) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.002 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for licenses for dogs and cats shall be filed with the Village
Clerk or designated veterinarians and shall state the name and address of the
owner, and the name, breed, sex and age of the dog or cat. All applications for
licenses must be accompanied by evidence that the dog or cat has received a
rabies inoculation by a licensed veterinarian within 12 months prior to the
filing of the application for license.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969; Ord. 891, passed 6-6-1984;
Ord. 996-87, passed 5-20-1987; Ord. 1013-87, passed 9-2-1987)
§ 90.003 FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fee for a male or female dog or cat shall be $4.
   (B)   The above annual license fee shall be waived for persons who are 62
years of age or older, to legally blind persons who use a seeing eye dog or to
any other handicapped person who owns a dog that has been specifically trained
to provide assistance in everyday functions. The annual license fee shall also
be waived for persons caring for foster dogs or cats through or with an animal
fostering organization, consistent with the provisions of §
90.044(C).
   (C)   (1)   The license fees for dogs or animals that have been declared
nuisance, dangerous or vicious shall be as follows:
         (a)   Nuisance dog or animal license fee shall be $10;
         (b)   Dangerous dog license fee shall be $15; and
         (c)   Vicious dog license fee shall be $25.
      (2)   The fees under this division (C) for nuisance, dangerous or vicious
dogs and/or animals shall not be waived pursuant to division (B) above or
pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 43.
   (D)   All fees collected under this chapter shall be payable to the Village
Clerk or their designee and will be deposited in the General Fund of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 90.021) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.004 LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall keep a record of all dog and cat licenses and
fees paid and shall furnish to each person filing an application for a license
and paying the license fee, a metal tag stamped with numbers indicating the
year for which the license is issued. A duplicate to replace a lost or
destroyed tag shall be issued by the Clerk on payment of a fee of $1. License
tags shall be securely attached around the dog’s or cat’s neck and kept there
at all times during the license period by any person who owns or has custody of
the dog or cat.
   (B)   License tags shall be obtained for each dog or cat on or before June
30 of each year and valid until June 30 the following year. Any dog or cat
without a current license after June 30 of each year is deemed unlicensed and
the owner or person having custody of the dog or cat is in violation of this
chapter. No person may transfer license tags from one dog or cat to another.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall issue the following color tags for various
classifications of dogs and cats:
      (1)   General dog or cat: shall be issued a green tag;
      (2)   Nuisance dog or animal: shall be issued a yellow tag;
      (3)   Dangerous dog: shall be issued an orange tag; and
      (4)   Vicious dog: shall be issued a red tag.
   (D)   If an animal is declared a nuisance, dangerous or vicious, as defined
in this chapter, during the course of a license year, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner to file a new license application, pay the new
license fee and obtain a new license tag within 14 days of the declaration.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; ENCLOSURES, LEASHES OR RESTRAINTS
REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this code for any owner, possessor,
custodian or other person having control or in charge of any dog within the
corporate limits of the village to permit such dog to run at large under any
circumstances whatsoever. A dog shall be deemed to be running at large at any
time when it is not on premises owned, leased or lawfully occupied by the
owner, possessor, custodian or other person having control or in charge of the
dog in question and not controlled or restrained by means of a leash, chain,
cable, strap or other appropriate restraint held by the owner, possessor,
custodian or other person having control or in charge of the dog in question;
or, when it is on premises owned, leased or lawfully occupied by the owner,
possessor, custodian or other person having control or in charge of the dog in
question but not securely confined by a fence, cage, grates, bars or other
structure, enclosure or other physical barrier of sufficient strength and size
to prevent the dog in question from escaping or leaving therefrom, or from
obtaining access to any public property, sidewalk, street, right-of-way or any
property owned, leased or occupied by any person other than the owner,
possessor, custodian or other person having control or in charge of the dog in
question, or not controlled or restrained by means of a leash, chain, cable,
strap or other appropriate restraint held by the owner, possessor, custodian or
other person having control or in charge of the dog in question. SECURELY
CONFINED, as used in the foregoing sentence, shall not include the use of any
type of electronic, sonic, photoelectric, chemical or other form of confinement
not involving the use of a physical barrier, and no use of any such methods to
confine any dog shall be deemed to constitute compliance with the provisions of
this section. The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the Animal
Warden in accordance with the applicable provisions of this chapter, and may be
enforced by any sworn law enforcement officers of the village. Notwithstanding
any contrary provisions of this section, the provisions of this section shall
not apply with respect to any dogs actively engaged in the assistance of
visually impaired or physically disabled persons, any dogs owned, possessed or
used by sworn law enforcement officers of the village or such other agencies as
may lawfully have jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969; Ord. 996-87, passed 5-20-
1987; Ord. 0066-02, passed 9-18-2002) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT TO BE CONFINED.
   Any female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a secure enclosure by its
owner or person having custody of it.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969; Ord. 996-87, passed 5-20-
1987) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.007 IMPOUNDING DOGS.
   Any dog or cat found running at large, or any dog or cat to which a current
license is not attached, shall be impounded by the Police Department or Animal
Warden. Any dog or cat which cannot be impounded without danger to the Police
Department or Animal Warden, or which is vicious, dangerous or ferocious, or is
sick with or likely to communicate rabies or other contagious diseases, may be
destroyed forthwith by the Police Department or Animal Warden after reasonable
efforts to impound the dog or cat unharmed have failed. Dogs or cats taken by
the Police Department or Animal Warden shall be impounded in a shelter or
veterinary hospital designated by the Police Board as an official shelter.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969; Ord. 891, passed 6-6-1984;
Ord. 996-87, passed 5-20-1987)
§ 90.008 REDEEMING IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   Any dog or cat impounded may be redeemed by the owner on payment of a
release fee, plus a boarding fee for each day the dog or cat has been
impounded, and the purchase of license tags if current tags have not previously
been obtained. The fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk. If the dog or cat
is not redeemed within seven days after being impounded, it may be disposed of
in a humane manner at the discretion of the Police Department or Animal Warden.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969; Ord. 891, passed 6-6-1984;
Ord. 996-87, passed 5-20-1987; Ord. 2671-99, passed 6-21-1999)
**** DANGEROUS ANIMALS; RABIES CONTROL ****
§ 90.020 CONFINEMENT REQUIRED.
   Any vicious, dangerous, ferocious animal or animal sick with or likely to
communicate rabies or other contagious diseases shall be confined in a secure
enclosure by its owner or person having custody of it. The animal shall not be
taken out of the enclosure except if securely leashed and muzzled.
(Prior Code, § 90.15) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.021 RABIES VACCINATION; PROOF OF SAME.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog or cat four months of age shall cause such dog or
cat to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually or at
such intervals as hereafter may be promulgated by the Department and register
said dog or cat with the Village Animal Warden.
   (B)   Thirty days are permitted for an owner to secure revaccination of a
dog or cat after the previous vaccination period has lapsed.
   (C)   Evidence of such inoculation shall be entered upon a certificate, the
form of which shall be approved by the Village Board and the certificate shall
be signed by the licensed veterinarian administering the vaccine.
   (D)   Any owner of a dog or cat four months of age and older shall maintain
a current rabies vaccination for their dog or cat and provide proof of such
current vaccination upon request of the Animal Control Warden or law
enforcement officer. Proof of a current rabies vaccination shall also be
required for the issuance of any annual dog license, and for redeeming or
releasing an impounded dog from the village animal control facility/kennel.
(Prior Code, § 90.151) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.022 INFECTED ANIMALS BITING PERSONS.
   Every animal which may be infected by rabies and which bites a person shall
promptly be reported to the Police Department. The Department shall investigate
to determine whether the animal has had a rabies shot within one year of the
bite. If there is proof of adequate inoculation, the owner or person having
custody of the animal shall keep it quarantined for 15 days. If there is no
proof of adequate inoculation or the owner or person having custody cannot be
found, the animal shall be quarantined by the Police Department in any
veterinary hospital or approved animal shelter. The confinement fee shall be
paid by the owner. Animals shall be released from quarantine only after a
written certificate of a qualified licensed veterinarian has been presented to
the Police Department to the effect that the animal is free of rabies.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969)
§ 90.023 ANIMALS UNDER QUARANTINE.
   When an animal under quarantine dies, the head of the animal shall be
surrendered to the Police Department which shall send it to the State Health
Department for pathological examination. The proper public health officials
shall be notified of reports of human contacts and the diagnosis of the
suspected animal. Any animal bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be
immediately destroyed or, at the owner’s option and expense, shall be treated
for rabies infection by a licensed veterinarian and held under quarantine for
30 days.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 KILLING RABID ANIMALS; REMOVING ANIMALS FROM VILLAGE LIMITS.
   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any animal
suspected of having been exposed to rabies or any animal biting a human, except
as herein provided, nor remove the animal from the village limits without the
written permission of the Police Department. The carcass of any dead animal
exposed to rabies shall, on demand, be surrendered to the proper village
officials.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.025 PHYSICIAN’S AND VETERINARIAN’S REPORTS.
   Every physician or other practitioner shall report to the Police Department
the names and addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by animals,
together with such other information as will be helpful in rabies control.
Every licensed veterinarian shall report to the Police Department the diagnosis
of any animal observed by them as a rabies suspect.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.999
**** ANIMAL CONTROL ****
§ 90.040 ANIMALS DISTURBING NEIGHBORHOOD.
   It is unlawful for any person who owns or has custody of any animal to
permit or allow the animal to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood
by barking, howling or making any other loud or unusual noises or by running
through or across cultivated gardens or fields.
(Prior Code, § 90.25) (Ord. 272, passed 1-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 ANIMALS PROHIBITED FROM VILLAGE.
   (A)   No person shall keep any cattle, horses, mules, goats, sheep, swine,
primate, birds, barn fowl, peafowl, rabbits, mink, rodents, predatory mammals
or other animals within a yard, pen or any outdoor premises in any residential
area of the village; provided, however, that foregoing provision shall not
apply to the maintenance of a fenced in yard or run for the use of domestic
dogs and/or cats, where otherwise in compliance with the provisions of this
code. Likewise, no person shall keep any of the aforementioned animals within
any residential dwelling or other building within the village, except as
otherwise specifically permitted by this chapter, except that rabbits,
hamsters, gerbils, guinea pigs, ferrets and similar animals customarily
maintained as domestic household pets and which are customarily available for
sale at nationally recognized pet retailers may be kept within a residential
dwelling subject to the otherwise applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall possess, harbor or keep any bird or mammal or other
animal that is by nature wild and ordinarily living unconfined in a state of
nature without the care of humans, or for which any federal or state permit
shall be required in order to keep or possess, by way of distinction from those
animals that are customarily tamed and domesticated; provided, however, that
this sentence shall not permit the keeping or maintenance of any animal
prohibited by the preceding sentence.
(Prior Code, § 90.26) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION.
   Domesticated farm animals shall be exempt from the above prohibition so long
as the property they are kept on meets the following criteria.
   (A)   The property on which the animals are kept is zoned within the A-
1 Agricultural District established by
Chapter 157 for agricultural use.
   (B)   The property on which the animals are kept is, at minimum, five acres
in size.
(Prior Code, § 90.261) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.043 LIMITATION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Single-family detached residence. A single-family detached residence
shall not contain, shelter or house in any way more than a combined total of
five dogs and/or cats. Of the five total animals, no single-family residence
shall have more than three dogs or three cats. A single-family detached
residence shall not own, shelter or permit more than ten four-legged domestic
animals, inclusive of the dogs and cats otherwise permitted by the preceding
sentence. In addition thereto, a single-family detached residence shall not
contain shelter or house more than four birds.
   (B)   Single-family attached residence or multi-unit residence. A single-
family attached residence or multi-unit residence shall not contain, shelter or
house in any way more than a combined total of three animals, and no more than
two dogs or two cats. A single-family attached or multi-unit residence shall
not own, shelter or permit more than five four-legged domestic animals,
inclusive of the dogs and cats otherwise permitted by the preceding sentence.
In addition thereto, a single-family detached residence shall not contain
shelter or house more than two birds.
   (C)   Limited waiver. The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above shall be
suspended for a period of 90 days following the birth of offspring from any
animals otherwise lawfully kept or maintained within any single-family detached
residence or any single-family attached residence or multi-unit residence.
(Prior Code, § 90.27) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.044 EXCEPTIONS TO LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who, at the time of adoption of this section, possesses a
number of dogs or cats or combination thereof or other animals that is in
excess of the limitations prescribed in §
90.043 shall be exempt from the provisions of §
90.043; provided that they are in compliance with §§
90.001 and
90.002 within 30 days from the passage of this section; provided, however, that
such person shall not have otherwise been in violation of the provisions of
this chapter as the same existed immediately prior to the adoption of this
section, and provided further that no such person possessing a number of dogs
or cats or combination thereof or other animals that is in excess of the
limitations prescribed in §
90.043 as of the date of the adoption of this chapter shall be permitted to
acquire any new or different animals until such time as the acquisition of such
animals would be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter without the
application of this provisions of this division (A).
   (B)   Fish are not subject to the limitations set forth in §
90.043.
   (C)   Any person who possesses a number of dogs or cats or combination
thereof that is in excess of the limitations prescribed in §
90.043 shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter; provided that they
are serving as a temporary foster home provider through a not-for-profit animal
welfare organization that has tax exempt status under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3) and is
otherwise licensed and permitted in accordance with applicable state or federal
law. Any person providing a foster home for a not-for-profit organization shall
not receive any monetary compensation for the animals in their care other than
reimbursement for necessary food and medicine or other expenses for the care of
the animals in question. Any foster care provider shall be limited to caring
for no more than four foster animals total and cannot exceed caring for more
than two foster dogs or two foster cats at any given time. A foster care
provider shall not house any foster animal within their care for a period that
exceeds 60 days, unless that period is extended at the discretion and
authorization of the Village Animal Control Warden.
(Prior Code, § 90.271) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.045 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No cattle, horses, mules, goats, sheep, swine or domestic fowl of the
species of geese, ducks, turkeys, hens, barn fowl, peacocks or other fowl shall
run or fly at large within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 90.28) (Ord. 387, passed 1-16-1974) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046 ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
   No person shall allow cat or dog feces to accumulate in any yard, pen or
premises in or upon which a cat or dog shall be confined or kept so that it
becomes offensive to those residing in the vicinity or a health hazard to the
residing cat or dog. No person shall fail to remove feces deposited by their
cat or dog, except guide dogs, upon the public ways or within the public places
of the village or upon the premises of any person other than the owner without
the person’s consent.
(Prior Code, § 90.281) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.047 TETHERING, EXTREME WEATHER; ANIMAL CRUELTY IN PRESENCE OF CHILD.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, it
shall be unlawful for any person to tether any animal to a fixed object, except
upon the satisfaction of each of the following conditions:
      (1)   A tethered dog must have access at all times to water, adequate
shelter and dry ground;
      (2)   The chain, rope, leash, run line or other device used to tether the
animal shall be placed or attached so as to prevent the animal from becoming
entangled with a structure, tree, plant, shrubbery, another animal or any other
object;
      (3)   The chain, rope, leash, run line or other device used to tether the
animal shall be of sufficient length, in proportion to the size of the animal,
but no less than ten feet long, to allow the animal to obtain proper exercise,
convenient access to food and water and protection from direct sunlight or
extreme weather conditions;
      (4)   The chain, rope, leash, run line or other device used to tether the
animal does not weight more than one-eighth the amount of the animal’s weight
and is not made from a logging chain or a tow chain;
      (5)   The animal is not attached to the chain, rope, leash, run line or
other device by any collar or means of restraint that may injure the animal or
interfere with its vision or respiration, including, without limitation, any
type of “choke” collar that constricts around the animal’s neck when pulled;
         (a)   The chain, rope, leash, run line or other device, and the collar
attached thereto used to tether the animal shall be of such material and shall
be attached and affixed in such a manner sufficient to physically retrain and
control the animal to be tethered; and
         (b)   The animal to be tethered has not been designated as a vicious
dog.
      (6)   If the animal to be tethered has been designated as a dangerous
dog, the dog also must be supervised by an adult at least 18 years of age and
securely muzzled with a muzzle at all times that it is tethered in a manner
that will prevent it from biting any person or animal, but that will not injure
the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration;
      (7)   The animal is not tethered in a manner that either:
         (a)   Permits the animal to trespass upon public property, or upon
private property without consent of the property owner; or
         (b)   Threatens the health, safety or welfare of any person or animal.
      (8)   The animal is not tethered and unsupervised for more than two
consecutive hours during any 24-hour period;
      (9)   The animal is not tethered and unsupervised between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
      (10)   The animal is not tethered and unsupervised within 200 feet of any
school at any time;
      (11)   The animal is not tethered on public property at any time, and is
not tethered on private property without prior consent of the property owner;
and
      (12)   No person shall permit at any time a tethered dog to bark, whine,
howl or make excess noises so as to cause a nuisance.
   (B)   No owner of a dog or cat that is a pet or companion animal may expose
the dog or cat in a manner that places the dog or cat in a life-threatening
situation during extreme temperatures and weather conditions, including,
without limitation, during heat advisories or when the temperature is below
32°F; a wind chill warning or tornado warning has been issued by local, state
or national authority; and any other instances of extreme weather as determined
by the Village Animal Warden similarly presenting a danger to the health and
safety of the pet or companion animal.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty provided under this code, any person
who is convicted of a violation of this section or of a violation of §
90.070 through and including §
90.072 in the presence of a minor under 18 years of age shall be subject to a
fine of $250 and ordered to perform community service for not less than 100
hours.
(Prior Code, § 90.29) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.048 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog which behaves in a way that constitutes a
physical threat of bodily harm to a person or domestic animal in a place where
such person or animal is conducting themselves peacefully and lawfully;
      (2)   Which chases or approaches a person or domestic animal upon a
street, sidewalk or any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent
attitude of attack;
      (3)   Bites a person or domestic animal, but does not cause physical
injury; and
      (4)   Any dog deemed “dangerous” or equivalent by another municipality,
county or state.
   ENCLOSURE.
      (1)   A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, and no more
than 15 feet by eight feet in area, forming or creating an enclosure suitable
to prevent the entry of young children, and suitable to confine a vicious dog.
Such ENCLOSURE must be securely enclosed, locked and designed with secure
sides, top and bottom. The structure must be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping. If said fence or structure does not have a bottom which is
secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded in the ground. Such ENCLOSURE
must be within an area fenced by a stockade fence six feet in height, and all
gates within said fence must remain locked at all times; or
      (2)   In any circumstances where applicable law or the provisions of a
recorded instrument establishing a declaration of covenants or restrictions
prevent the construction of an enclosure as set forth in division (1) above, a
structure consisting of other means and methods of physical confinement of the
dog contained therein, consisting of walls, fences, gates, bars and/or other
physical restraints reasonably determined by the Village Police Department to
be effective in preventing the escape of the animal confined therein from the
premises on which the same shall be located.
   NUISANCE ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any individual animal other than a dog which, on three separate
occasions within a 12-month period, has been:
         (a)   Observed to be unrestrained or uncontrolled off its’ owner’s
premises; or
         (b)   Has been impounded by Village Animal Control for being
unrestrained, creating a noise nuisance or uncontrolled off its owner’s
premises.
      (2)   Any individual cat that has been declared by another governmental
agency or authority having jurisdiction to constitute a nuisance on terms and
conditions substantially similar to those set forth herein, regardless of the
specific name or terminology used in such declaration.
   NUISANCE DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog which, on three separate occasions within a 12-
month period, has been:
         (a)   Observed to be unrestrained or uncontrolled off its owner’s
premises; or
         (b)   Has been impounded by Village Animal Control for being
unrestrained, creating a noise nuisance or uncontrolled off its owner’s
premises.
      (2)   Any individual dog which has on three separate occasions violated
§§
90.005 or
90.040; and
      (3)   Any individual dog that has been declared by another governmental
agency or authority having jurisdiction to constitute a nuisance on terms and
conditions substantially similar to those set forth herein, regardless of the
specific name or terminology used in such declaration.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has it in their care, or acts as its custodian, or
who knowingly permits or purposely attracts a domestic, wild or exotic animal
to remain on or about any premise occupied by that person.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   Any individual dog that, when unprovoked, attacks a human being or
other domestic animal either on public or private property, and inflicts
physical injury or death;
      (2)   Any individual dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise put the safety
of humans or domestic animals at risk;
      (3)   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation;
      (4)   Any individual dog which has been found to be a “dangerous” dog
upon two separate occasions;
      (5)   Any dog deemed “vicious” or equivalent by another municipality,
county or state;
      (6)   Any individual dog that has a trait or characteristic and a
generally known reputation of viciousness, dangerousness or unprovoked attacks
upon humans or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or with
special equipment; and
      (7)   No dog shall be deemed “vicious” if it bites, attacks or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it, or is a professionally trained law enforcement dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.290) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 20-1621, passed 1-
15-2020)
§ 90.049 VICIOUS DOG REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog
which has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is at all times kept
in an enclosure that does not allow the animal to exit such enclosure and/or
structure of its own volition.
      (2)   (a)   The only times a vicious dog may be allowed out of its
enclosure are:
            1.   It is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the vicious dog;
            2.   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided that the vicious dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain
having a tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length,
and shall be under the direct control and supervision of the owner and/or
keeper of the vicious dog; or
            3.   To remove the dog from the enclosure and to bring the dog into
the principal building or structure located on the same zoning lot as the
enclosure, and to thereafter return the dog from such building or structure to
the enclosure; provided that the vicious dog is securely muzzled and restrained
with a chain having a tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three
feet in length, and shall be under the direct control and supervision of the
owner and/or keeper of the vicious dog.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this division, no
dog that has been declared vicious by the village pursuant to this chapter,
prior to June 7, 2017, shall be subject to the requirement that it be confined
to an enclosure as hereinabove provided, unless such dog shall have thereafter
been newly declared to be a vicious dog in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The owner shall register such dog with the village and obtain a red
tag in accordance with §
90.004, and shall post signage that is clearly visible from both the front and
rear property lines, which reads as follows: “BEWARE OF VICIOUS ANIMAL.”
   (C)   The owner must notify Village Animal Control within 24 hours if the
animal is loose, unconfined, has attacked another animal or human being, has
been removed from the village or has died.
   (D)   The owner must provide proof to Village Animal Control that the animal
has been neutered/spayed and micro-chipped within 15 days of having been
declared to be vicious, if the same have not been done already, at the owner’s
expense.
   (E)   The owner of a vicious dog must present to the village proof that the
owner has obtained liability insurance in the amount of at least $1,000,000.
Such insurance policy or declaration must specifically reference coverage for
issues relating to the vicious dog, and that such coverage is available to pay
claims arising from violations of this chapter. The insurance policy shall also
contain a provision that the village will be notified by the insurance company
in the event the policy is cancelled, reduced, terminated or expired.
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this division (E), the owner of a dog
that has been declared vicious by the village pursuant to this chapter, prior
to June 7, 2017, shall only be required to obtain liability insurance in the
amount of $100,000, but such insurance shall otherwise comply with all the
requirements of this chapter, and provided further, however, that in the event
that any such dog shall thereafter newly be declared by the village to be
vicious, pursuant to this chapter, the owner of such dog shall thereafter be
required to obtain liability insurance in the amount of at least $1,000,000.
   (F)   The owner, at their own expense, must attend classes in dog obedience
and care offered through any approved institution, park district or licensed
dog trainer, and provide proof to the village that such course has been
completed.
   (G)   The owner shall allow unannounced inspection by Village Animal
Control, no more than three times per year, of the premises in which the
vicious dog is kept. Village Animal Control will determine whether or not the
enclosure is secure; that facilities exist to adequately feed, house and
maintain the animal; that the location of the enclosure is not likely to
endanger the peace, quiet, health, safety or comfort of persons in the vicinity
of the location; and that maintenance of the animal in the location has not
resulted in or is not likely to result in the animal being subjected to
neglect, suffering, cruelty or abuse. The owner of a vicious dog shall retain
the right to refuse inspection, and shall be so advised by the village upon the
occasion of such an inspection, but in the event of a refusal of an inspection,
the village shall retain the right to obtain an administrative search warrant,
or to pursue other remedies in the Circuit Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit
to enforce the provisions of this section requiring access for an inspection.
   (H)   If the owner of a vicious dog is unwilling or unable to comply with
the foregoing regulations, the owner shall have the animal humanely euthanized
by an animal shelter, animal control agency or licensed veterinarian at the
owner’s expense.
   (I)   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the
vicious dog or remove the dog from the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 90.291) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 18-1502, passed 9-
19-2018)
§ 90.050 VICIOUS DOG PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any violation of the requirements set forth in §
90.049 is subject to a $750 fine, and each day that such violation shall occur
or continue shall constitute a separate offense. If a subsequent offense
occurs, such owner will be subject to a fine of $1,000, and if a third offense
occurs thereafter, in addition to a fine of $1,000, the animal will be subject
to confiscation by the Animal Control Warden, and thereafter humanely
euthanized.
   (B)   Any vicious dog found not to be confined to an enclosure in violation
of the requirements of this chapter shall be impounded by the Animal Control
Warden or by any law enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such area and
shall thereafter be humanely euthanized.
   (C)   Any vicious dog that has bitten another person and/or domestic animal,
or is suspected of having rabies, shall be immediately impounded by the Animal
Control Warden, and thereafter tested for rabies by a licensed veterinarian or
as otherwise required by applicable law. It shall be unlawful for the owner of
any vicious dog to give or sell such dog, or to allow such dog to be taken
beyond the corporate limits of the village prior to impoundment. It is the
responsibility of the owner, upon learning or receiving notice of the aforesaid
facts, to immediately notify the Animal Control Warden so that such dog can be
impounded. Any such dog found to have rabies shall thereafter immediately be
humanely euthanized.
   (D)   (1)   In the event a biting or attacking vicious dog is:
         (a)   Impounded pursuant to this section; or
         (b)   Declared in writing to be vicious within the meaning of §
90.048, the owner shall be given written notice that they may request a hearing
with respect to the impoundment or the declaration.
      (2)   The request for such hearing must be made by the owner within five
days of the date of the notice of impoundment or the date of declaration that
the dog is vicious. The hearing shall be held expeditiously upon the request of
the owner, and within 15 days of the date of the owner’s request for hearing,
unless otherwise agreed by the village and the owner. The sole matter to be
determined in such hearing shall be the propriety of the impoundment or the
issuance of the declaration that the dog is vicious. The hearing shall be
conducted before a village hearing officer in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 41.
   (E)   The owner of a vicious dog who knowingly fails to take appropriate
precautions, as required by this chapter, to confine and restrain such dog
shall be liable for restitution of actual damages to the victims thereof for
personal injury and property damage caused by the dog when not properly
confined or restrained.
   (F)   Any municipal corporation, county, township, village or any other
political subdivision or department of the state, or the United States or any
of its instrumentalities, or any person, partnership, corporation, association
or any incorporated or unincorporated religious, education or charitable
organization is entitled to enforce the liability imposed by this section.
   (G)   No recovery under this section may exceed $100,000 actual damages for
each person, or legal entity as provided in division (E) above, in addition to
taxable court costs. In determining the damages to be allowed in an action
under this section for personal injury, only medical, dental and hospital
expenses and nursing care appropriate thereto may be considered.
   (H)   This section shall not affect the recovery of damages in any other
cause of action where the liability of the owner of the vicious dog is
predicated on a common law basis.
   (I)   In addition to the fines and penalties provided herein, if the owner
of a dog that was declared vicious by order of the Circuit Court for the 12th
Judicial Circuit fails to abide by any of the requirements of the ordinances
pertaining to vicious dogs pursuant to such court order, such owner shall be
subject to being held in contempt of court.
(Prior Code, § 90.292) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 19-1544, passed 3-
6-2019)
§ 90.051 DANGEROUS DOG REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of a dangerous dog shall not allow the animal to
leave the premises of its owner when not under control by the owner or keeper
through the use of a leash of no more than six feet in length.
   (B)   The owner of a dangerous dog must register such dog with the village
and procure an orange tag pursuant to §
90.004, and must post signage that is clearly visible from both the front and
rear property lines, which signage reads as follows: “BEWARE OF DANGEROUS
ANIMAL.”
   (C)   The owner of a dangerous dog must provide Village Animal Control with
proof that they have obtained liability insurance in the amount of at least
$500,000. Such proof must specifically reference coverage for incidents
relating to such dangerous dog, and coverage for losses arising from violations
of this chapter. The policy must contain a provision that the insurance company
will notify the village in the event the policy is cancelled, reduced,
terminated or expired.
   (D)   In the event that any dog shall be declared in writing to be dangerous
within the meaning of §
90.048, the owner shall be given written notice as part of such declaration
that they may request a hearing with respect to the declaration. The request
for such hearing must be made by the owner within five days of the date of the
declaration that the dog is dangerous. The hearing shall be held expeditiously
upon the request of the owner, and within 15 days of the date of the owner’s
request for hearing, unless otherwise agreed by the village and the owner. The
sole matter to be determined in such hearing shall be the propriety of the
declaration of the dog as dangerous. The hearing shall be conducted before a
village hearing officer in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 41.
(Prior Code, § 90.293) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 19-1544, passed 3-
6-2019)
§ 90.052 DANGEROUS DOG PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any violation of the requirements set forth in §
90.051 is subject to a $500 fine, and each day that such violation shall occur
or continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any dangerous dog which is off its owner’s premises and not controlled
by a leash of no more than six feet held by its owner or keeper shall be
impounded by the Animal Control Warden or the law enforcement authority having
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 90.294) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.053 NUISANCE DOG REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of a nuisance dog must not allow the dog to leave the
premises of its owner when not under control by a leash of no more than six
feet.
   (B)   The owner of a nuisance dog must register such dog with the village
and procure a yellow tag in accordance with §
90.004.
   (C)   The owner of a nuisance dog must post signage which is clearly visible
from both the front and rear property line which reads as follows: “BEWARE OF
DOG.”
   (D)   The owner of a nuisance dog must present the village with proof that
liability insurance has been obtained in the amount of $250,000. Such proof
must specifically reference coverage for incidents relating to such nuisance
dog, and providing coverage for losses arising from violations of this chapter.
The policy must contain a provision that the insurance company will notify the
village in the event the policy is cancelled, reduced, terminated or expired.
   (E)   In the event that any dog shall be declared in writing to be a
nuisance within the meaning of §
90.048, the owner shall be given written notice as part of such declaration
that they may request a hearing with respect to the declaration. The request
for such hearing must be made by the owner within five days of the date of the
declaration that the dog is a nuisance. The hearing shall be held expeditiously
upon the request of the owner, and within 15 days of the date of the owner’s
request for hearing, unless otherwise agreed by the village and the owner. The
sole matter to be determined in such hearing shall be the propriety of the
declaration of the dog as a nuisance. The hearing shall be conducted before a
village hearing officer in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 41.
(Prior Code, § 90.295) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 19-1544, passed 3-
6-2019)
§ 90.054 NUISANCE DOG PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any violation of the requirements set forth in §
90.053 is subject to a $250 fine, and each day that such violation shall occur
or continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any nuisance dog which is off its owner’s premises and not controlled
by a leash of no more than six feet shall be impounded by the law enforcement
authority having jurisdiction in such area.
(Prior Code, § 90.296) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.055 NUISANCE ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of a nuisance animal must not allow the animal to leave the
premises of its owner when not under control by a leash of no more than six
feet.
   (B)   The owner of a nuisance animal must not allow the animal to enter onto
the property of another without the permission of the property owner.
   (C)   The owner of a nuisance animal must register such animal with the
village and procure a yellow tag in accordance with §
90.004.
   (D)   In the event that any animal other than a dog shall be declared, in
writing, to be a nuisance animal within the meaning of §
90.048, the owner shall be given written notice as part of such declaration
that they may request a hearing with respect to the declaration. The request
for such hearing must be made by the owner within five days of the date of the
declaration that the animal is a nuisance. The hearing shall be held
expeditiously upon the request of the owner, and within 15 days of the date of
the owner’s request for hearing, unless otherwise agreed by the village and the
owner. The sole matter to be determined in such hearing shall be the propriety
of the declaration of the animal as a nuisance animal. The hearing shall be
conducted before a village hearing officer in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 41.
(Prior Code, § 90.297) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017; Ord. 19-1544, passed 3-
6-2019)
§ 90.056 NUISANCE ANIMAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any violation of the requirements set forth in §
90.055 is subject to a $250 fine, and each day that such violation shall occur
or continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any nuisance animal which is off its owner’s premises and not
controlled by a leash of no more than six feet shall be impounded by the law
enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such area.
(Prior Code, § 90.298) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.057 OBSTRUCTING IMPOUNDMENT.
   No person shall obstruct, hinder or otherwise delay any person engaged in
apprehending and transporting to any village pound any animal liable to be
impounded.
(Prior Code, § 90.30) (Ord. 387, passed 1-16-1974) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.058 UNLAWFUL ENTRY INTO THE POUND.
   No person shall break open or in any manner, directly or indirectly, aid,
assist in, counsel or advise breaking open any village pound for an impounded
animal or fowl found running at large.
(Prior Code, § 90.31) (Ord. 387, passed 1-16-1974) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.059 ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or person having care, custody or
control of an animal to permit the animal to defecate fecal matter upon public
property, public rights-of-way or the private property of another person
without immediately removing the fecal matter and placing it in a container for
the deposit of trash.
   (B)   The terms and provisions of this section shall not be applicable to
guide dogs accompanying blind persons.
(Prior Code, § 90.32) (Ord. 834, passed 10-6-1982) Penalty, see §
90.999
**** CRUELTY TO ANIMALS ****
§ 90.070 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to commit cruelty to any animal. If the owner allows
their animal to become a public charge by failing to pick up such animal after
being duly notified, the animal may be destroyed at its owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 90.40) (Ord. 571, passed 10-19-1977; Ord. 891, passed 6-6-1984)
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.071 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUELTY TO AN ANIMAL. Shall be considered one or more of the following acts:
      (1)   Overloading, overdriving, overworking, cruelly beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating or cruelly killing any animal or knowingly allowing the
same to be done;
      (2)   Cruelly working an old, maimed, infirm, sick or disabled animal or
causing or knowingly allowing the same to be done;
      (3)   Knowingly failing to provide any animal in a person’s charge or
custody, as owner or otherwise, with proper food, drink and shelter;
      (4)   Abandoning any old, maimed, infirm, sick or disabled animal or by
abandoning any animal on any highway or public way or in any other place where
it may suffer injury, hunger or exposure, or become public charge;
      (5)   Failure on the part of the driver or any passenger in any motorized
vehicle which strikes a domesticated animal to report the incident to the
Police Department; and
      (6)   Carrying or driving, or causing to be carried or driven or kept,
any animal, in an unnecessarily cruel manner.
(Prior Code, § 90.41) (Ord. 571, passed 10-19-1977)
§ 90.072 POISONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   Except on the consent of the owner of any dog or other domestic animal to
destroy the animal for cause, no person shall knowingly poison or cause to be
poisoned any dog or other domestic animal except under written permit from the
Department of Agriculture for the purpose of controlling diseases transmissible
to humans or other animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.42) (Ord. 571, passed 10-19-1977) Penalty, see §
90.999
**** VILLAGE ANIMAL WARDEN ****
§ 90.085 CREATION OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT.
   The Office of the Village Animal Warden is created. The Village Animal
Warden shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 90.50) (Ord. 357, passed 4-18-1973)
§ 90.086 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Village Animal Warden to impound all dogs
or cats running at large in violation of the provisions of this chapter. The
Village Animal Warden shall be responsible for impounding any dog or cat in the
village that is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be dangerous to
the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the village. After the
Animal Warden finds any dog or cat, whether licensed or not, running at large
in the village, they shall, in addition to impounding the animal, attempt to
find the owner. If they find the owner or if the dog or cat is licensed, they
shall have the authority to issue a notice to the owner or person listed as the
licensed owner in a manner provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The Animal Warden shall be under the direct supervision and control of
the Chief of Police, although they shall not be considered a member of the
Village Police Department.
   (C)   This section shall not be interpreted so as to limit the Animal Warden
from impounding other animals illegally running at large within the corporate
limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 90.51) (Ord. 357, passed 4-18-1973; Ord. 829, passed 6-6-1984;
Ord. 996-87, passed 5-20-1987)
§ 90.087 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Village Animal Warden shall give the party violating any provision
of this chapter a notice which shall state the following:
      (1)   The gender of the dog or cat;
      (2)   That the animal is believed to be owned by the individual to whom
this notice is addressed;
      (3)   That the individual named above is believed to be the registered
owner of the dog or cat;
      (4)   If applicable, that the animal has been impounded by the Village
Animal Warden because the animal was found to be running at large in violation
of the village code;
      (5)   The provisions of this chapter violated by the recipient of the
notice, and a brief statement of the facts giving rise to such violation(s);
and
      (6)   That any animal found to be running at large was with or without a
proper license issued by the village.
   (B)   If the owner fails to redeem any impounded animal as provided in this
chapter, the Village Animal Warden shall thereafter have the discretion to
dispose of the animal in a humane manner.
   (C)   The Village Animal Warden shall have the discretion to provide the
notice herein required and to enforce the provisions of this chapter by means
of the issuance of a written warning, filing of an administrative warning
ticket or by signing and initiating the filing of a complaint in the Circuit
Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit, as well as by any other means of
enforcement of this chapter from time to time available under this code or
applicable law. Without limitation, the Animal Control Warden shall be
authorized to call on sworn officers of the Police Department for such
assistance as is required from time to time in enforcing the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   In order to perform a thorough investigation of any complaints
received, the Animal Control Warden may request to inspect the property of an
animal owner. The owner shall retain the right to refuse inspection, and shall
be so advised by the village upon the occasion of such an inspection, but in
the event of a refusal of an inspection, the village shall retain the right to
obtain an administrative search warrant, or to pursue other remedies in the
Circuit Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit to enforce the provisions of this
section requiring access for an inspection.
(Prior Code, § 90.52) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.088 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Village Animal Warden shall maintain complete yearly records of all
animals impounded under this subchapter. The records shall specify the name of
the animal owner; the location of the violation; the date of the violation;
name of the registered owner, if any; and any further action the Village Animal
Warden was compelled to exercise to remedy the offending condition. Two years
after the date a yearly file is opened, the Village Animal Warden may destroy
it provided that any action still pending in a file eligible for destruction
shall be placed in a special file until the disposition of the matter.
(Prior Code, § 90.53) (Ord. 357, passed 4-18-1973)
§ 90.089 INCITING ANIMAL FIGHTS.
   No person shall promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct or carry on any animal
fight or any other type of contest or game of a similar nature, nor any
simulated version of the same, that involves baiting or inciting an animal to
fight another animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.54) (Ord. 891, passed 6-6-1984) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.090 HUNTING WITHIN VILLAGE LIMITS.
   No person shall hunt, shoot, pursue, lure, trap, kill, destroy, capture, gig
or spear and snare, or harass any bird or mammal within the village.
(Prior Code, § 90.55) (Ord. 891, passed 6-6-1984) Penalty, see §
90.999
**** COMMERCIALLY BRED ANIMALS IN PET SHOPS ****
§ 90.105 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HUMANE SOCIETY OR RESCUE ORGANIZATION. Any not-for-profit organization that
has tax exempt status under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), whose mission and practice is,
in whole or in signification part, the rescue and placement of dogs, cats or
rabbits.
   OFFER FOR SALE. To display, sell, deliver, offer for sale or adoption,
advertise for the sale of, barter, auction, give away or otherwise dispose of a
dog, cat or rabbit.
   RETAILER. Any person subject to this chapter who offers for sale any dog,
cat or rabbit in the village.
(Prior Code, § 90.60) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.106 RESTRICTIONS ON THE RETAIL SALE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   A retailer may offer for sale only those dogs, cats, ferrets or
rabbits that the retailer has obtained from:
      (1)   An animal control center, animal care facility, kennel, pound or
training facility operated by any subdivision of local, state or federal
government;
      (2)   A humane society or rescue organization; and
      (3)   Animal obtained from breeders. No pet shop operator may offer for
sale any dog, cat, ferret or rabbit obtained from a breeder unless the
following requirements are met:
         (a)   The breeder holds a USDA Class “A” license as defined by the
Animal Welfare Act, as found in the Code of Federal Regulations, 9 C.F.R. §
1.1, listing all site addresses where regulated animals are located;
         (b)   The breeder owns or possesses no more than five female dogs,
cats, ferrets or rabbits capable of reproduction in any 12-month period;
         (c)   No more than five female dogs, cats, ferrets or rabbits capable
of reproduction are housed at the site address where the retail animal was born
or housed, including animals owned by persons other than the breeder; and
         (d)   In addition to any disclosures required by this division (A)(3)
or otherwise required by law, the following information shall be maintained and
provided for each animal:
            1.   The active USDA license number(s) of the animal’s breeder;
            2.   Any previous USDA license number(s) held by the animal’s
breeder in the last five years;
            3.   The name, mailing and site address location(s) of the breeder
as they appear on the breeder’s active USDA license;
            4.   All names the breeder is doing business as;
            5.   The total number of female dogs, cats, ferrets or rabbits
capable of reproduction owned or possessed by breeder;
            6.   The sire and dam of the animal;
            7.   The name and address of the location where the animal was
born; and
            8.   The name(s) and address of any other location(s) where the
animal was housed by the breeder after birth.
   (B)   No retailer shall be issued a license under §§
90.120 through
90.122 or any other permit or approval without first having signed an
acknowledgment in form and substance acceptable to the village that such
retailer has read and understood the provisions of this chapter applicable to
the retail sale of animals, and that the retailer accepts and intends to be
bound by the same.
(Prior Code, § 90.61) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.107 EXEMPTIONS.
   The restrictions on retailers set forth in §
90.106 shall not apply to any humane society or rescue organization as defined
above, or to any veterinary hospital or clinic licensed pursuant to the
Veterinary Medicine and Surgery Practice Act of 2004, codified at 225 ILCS 115
et seq., nor to the village’s operation of its animal control facility.
(Prior Code, § 90.62) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.108 DISCLOSURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any retailer who offers for sale a dog, cat, ferret or rabbit shall
make the following disclosures to the customer about such animal:
      (1)   For each dog or cat: a written disclosure meeting all of the
requirements set forth in §§ 3.5 or 3.15, as applicable, of the Animal Welfare
Act, codified at 225 ILCS 605 et seq.; and
      (2)   For each ferret or rabbit:
         (a)   The breed, approximate age, sex and color of the animal;
         (b)   The date and description of any inoculation or medical treatment
that the animal received while under the possession of the retailer;
         (c)   The name and address of the location where the animal was born,
rescued, relinquished or impounded; and
         (d)   If the animal was returned by a customer, the date of and the
reason for the return.
   (B)   (1)   The disclosures required under this section shall be provided by
the retailer to the customer in written form and shall be signed by both the
retailer and customer at the time of sale.
      (2)   The retailer shall retain the original copy of such disclosure and
acknowledgment for a period of two years from the date of sale.
      (3)   Upon request by an authorized village official, the original copy
of such disclosure and acknowledgment shall be made immediately available for
inspection by such authorized village official.
   (C)   The retailer shall post, in writing, in a conspicuous place on or near
the cage of any dog, cat or rabbit offered for sale all of the information
about a dog, cat, ferret or rabbit required under this section and other
applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 90.63) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 90.109 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Animal Control Warden shall enforce this subchapter, with such
assistance as may be from time to time required from sworn officers of the
Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 90.64) (Ord. 17-1377, passed 6-7-2017)
**** PET DEALERS ****
§ 90.120 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of buying, selling, dealing in or
training dogs, cats, birds, fish or other animals used as household pets
without first obtaining a license.
(Prior Code, § 118.01) (Ord. 382, passed 12-5-1973) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.121 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, corporation or other firm who desires a
license to engage in the business of buying, selling, dealing in or training
dogs, cats, birds, fish and other small animals used as household pets shall
make written application to the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall state the following items:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The residence of the applicant; and
      (3)   The location where the applicant intends to carry on their business
as a dealer or trainer.
(Prior Code, § 118.02) (Ord. 382, passed 12-5-1973)
§ 90.122 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   After the Clerk receives the application, they shall direct the Building
Inspector to investigate the premises named and described in the application
for the purpose of determining the fitness and suitability of the premises from
a sanitary standpoint. The Building Inspector shall transmit to the President
and Board of Trustees the application together with their recommendation
approving or disapproving the license. If the President and Board of Trustees
is satisfied and if the applicant has complied and is in conformance with all
the ordinances of the village, then on payment by the applicant to the Village
Clerk of the license fee, the Clerk shall issue or cause to be issued a license
to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 118.03) (Ord. 382, passed 12-5-1973)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
§§
90.001 through
90.008,
90.020 through
90.025,
90.040 through
90.059,
90.070 through
90.072,
90.085 through
90.090 and
90.105 through
90.109, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 90.99)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
§§
90.120 through
90.122, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 118.99)
(Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Adoption of Codes and Standards by Reference
   
91.00   Adoption of International Building, Fire, Existing Building Codes and
NFPA 101 Life Safety Code
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Adoption of NFPA Standards by reference
   
91.03   Compliance required
   
91.04   Administration
   
91.05   Construction
   
91.06   Application
   
91.07   Existing buildings and structures
   
91.08   Variance
Fire Prevention Bureau
   
91.15   Establishment
   
91.16   Officers’ powers and duties
   
91.17   Duties of the Fire Chief
   
91.18   Investigation of fires; reports
   
91.19   Inspection requirement for dangerous or explosive materials
   
91.20   Inspection of dangerous manufacturing processes and their safety
systems
   
91.21   General inspections
   
91.22   Inspection on complaint or obvious fire hazard
   
91.23   Right of entry
   
91.24   Village Attorney to assist investigations
   
91.25   School fire drills
   
91.26   Records
   
91.27   Bureau annual and monthly reports
   
91.28   Reserved
   
91.29   Reserved
Fireworks
   
91.30   Fireworks display permits
Open Burning Prohibited
   
91.35   Open burning prohibited
   
91.36   Exceptions to open burning prohibition
Fire Prevention and Protection in Buildings
   
91.45   General regulations
   
91.46   Provision for water and fire hydrants
   
91.47   Exit construction, exit signage and travel distances in buildings
   
91.48   Obstructions to exits
   
91.49   Fire lanes/emergency vehicle access
   
91.50   Elevators
   
91.51   Fire alarm systems
   
91.52   Fire sprinkler systems
   
91.53   Sprinkler alarms
   
91.54   Sprinkler system supervision and protection
   
91.55   Fire Department connections
   
91.56   Location and height of Fire Department connections
   
91.57   Standpipe systems, hose valves
   
91.58   Rapid entry key box (knox box) and critical document cabinet
   
91.59   Fire loss prevention/fire watch
   
91.60   Carbon monoxide alarms/detectors required
   
91.61   Fire extinguishers
   
91.62   Special signage and labeling
   
91.63   Reserved
   
91.64   Reserved
   
91.65   Reserved
   
91.66   Reserved
   
91.67   Reserved
   
91.68   Operational permits
   
91.69   Fees
Automatic External Defibrillators (AED) in Certain Public Occupancies
   
91.70   Automated external defribrillator (AED) definitions
   
91.71   Public and private occupancies - automatic external defibrillator
placement
   
91.72   Automated external defribrillator (AED) training, maintenance and
reporting
   
91.73   Automated external defribrillator (AED) required compliance time frames
   
91.74   Automated external defribrillator (AED) variances
   
91.75   Automated external defribrillator (AED) enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Amendments to the International Fire Code
**** ADOPTION OF CODES AND
STANDARDS BY REFERENCE ****
§ 91.00 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING, FIRE, EXISTING BUILDING CODES AND
NFPA 101 LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   The 2021 Editions of the International Building Code, International Fire
Code, Existing Building Code and all appendixes, annual supplements thereto and
all referenced standards and codes therein and NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, 2021
Edition, unless deleted, modified or amended by this chapter or other
ordinances adopted by the village, is adopted for the purpose of establishing
minimum standards, rules and regulations required for life safety and fire
protection in buildings or structures within the jurisdiction of the village,
and the provisions thereof shall apply with the same force and effect as if
fully set forth in this chapter. Copies of all said International Codes, and
all annual supplements thereto and all referenced standards and codes therein,
shall be kept on file with the Fire Prevention Bureau, Village Clerk and
Building Inspector and available for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 91.00) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides for the village rules and regulations to improve
the safety of the public by promoting the control of fire hazards, regulating
the installation, use and maintenance of equipment and the use of structures,
premises and open areas, all so as to provide for the abatement of fire hazards
and the establishment of standards for compliance to achieve these objectives.
In the event of a conflict between any code, law, ordinance or standard, the
more stringent shall apply in the interest of public safety and protection of
property.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.02 ADOPTION OF NFPA STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   Unless specifically provided for elsewhere by the village, and without
otherwise limiting or construing any other provision of this chapter, the
standards for the National Fire Protection Association, as published by the
National Fire Protection Association and as incorporated within the
International Codes, adopted by the village pursuant to §
91.00, shall apply (the “standards”), and are incorporated into this chapter by
and the same shall apply with the same force and effect as if fully set forth
in this chapter. Copies of the standards shall be kept on file with the Fire
Prevention Bureau, Village Clerk and Building Inspector and available for
public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.03 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this chapter, to permit or
maintain a violation thereof, to refuse to obey any provision thereof or to
fail or refuse to comply with any provision or regulation or standard thereof
except as a variation may be allowed by action of the Fire Chief in writing and
pursuant to §
91.08.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal or any fire inspector of
the Fire Prevention Bureau shall administer the provisions of this chapter.
Without otherwise limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, the Fire
Chief, Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal or any fire inspector of the Fire
Prevention Bureau shall specifically be authorized to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter (including, but expressly not limited to, §§
91.46 and
91.49) by any means expressly set forth in this chapter, by the issuance of
administrative warning tickets under
Chapter 40 or by the filing of an ordinance violation complaint in accordance
with the applicable provisions of this code and the Illinois Municipal Code.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.05 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be construed in accordance with the laws and
regulations covering fire prevention of the state and the United States.
   (B)   This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the
village for the preservation and protection of the public health, peace, safety
and welfare, and all its provisions shall be liberally construed for that
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.06 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to uses, activities,
buildings and structures on both public and private property. Furthermore, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to all new buildings and structures and
the uses and occupancies thereof, including all systems and equipment therein,
constructed after the effective date of the ordinance adopting this chapter,
and except as otherwise specified in this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter shall also be applied to all existing buildings and structures and the
uses and occupancies thereof, including all systems and equipment therein,
where any of the foregoing constitute a clear and present fire related danger
or hazard to life or to property.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1018, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.07 EXISTING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   All buildings and structures, and the uses and occupancies thereof, in
existence or under construction as of the effective date of the ordinance
adopting this chapter and which do not strictly comply with the provisions of
this chapter may continue to be used (or, if under construction, be placed into
use or occupancy); provided that such buildings, structures, uses or
occupancies, as the case may be, do not present or constitute clear and present
fire related dangers or hazards to life or property within the village, and
provided further that any person desiring to continue the use of or to place
into use any such building, structure, use or occupancy shall be required to
demonstrate that such building, structure, use or occupancy complies in full
with those ordinances of the village in force and effect as of the construction
of such building or structure or the commencement of such use or occupancy.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any buildings and structures, and the uses and
occupancies thereof, in existence as of the effective date of the ordinance
adopting this chapter and which do not strictly comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall not be:
   (A)   Enlarged, expanded or increased in size or intensity or changed to
another use or occupancy classification without compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and other codes adopted by the village;
   (B)   Used, continued, occupied or reestablished without compliance with the
provisions of this chapter after being discontinued, vacated or otherwise left
idle or unused for a period of 12 consecutive months without proper
maintenance. The owner or occupant of the reoccupied or reestablished building
shall submit documentation prior to occupancy that all fire and life safety
systems have been inspected and tested by a company licensed to do so. All fire
and life safety systems shall be fully operational prior to occupancy. If the
building has not been occupied by the first day of the thirteenth month, the
building shall be brought up to current code before it can be re-occupied. This
shall include the addition of a fire sprinkler system and fire alarm system if
not equipped;
   (C)   In the case of a building or structure that is wholly destroyed or
damaged to an amount of 50% or greater of:
      (i)   The reasonably estimated cost to replace the building or structure;
or
      (ii)   The total square footage of the building or structure to be
rebuilt, repaired or restored, the entire building or structure shall come into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter for that use group.
   (D)   Any existing assembly occupancy or assembly area as described in
Chapter 3 of the 2021 International Building Code wanting to undergo
alterations for which a permit is required under the village code shall be
considered as new construction and comply with all sections of this chapter and
other applicable codes and standards for fire protection, detection and life
safety.
   (E)   At no time shall the life safety and/or fire protection requirements
for existing occupancies be less than required as outlined in NFPA 101, Life
Safety Code adopted by the office of the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of International Building Code, see §
91.00
§ 91.08 VARIANCE.
   (A)   The Village Fire Chief shall have the power to grant exemptions from
the application of specific requirements of this chapter upon their receipt of
a written request for such an exemption when the request demonstrates either
that:
      (1)   The enforcement of the specific requirement in question will cause
unnecessary hardship to the requesting party based upon circumstances unique to
the requesting party that are not generally applicable to similarly situated
parties elsewhere in the village, where such circumstances have not been
created or caused by action of the requesting party; or
      (2)   The request demonstrates an intent to utilize new, innovative or
alternate methods, materials, processes or systems other than those provided
for by this chapter, where such methods, materials, processes or systems can be
objectively shown to provide an equivalent or better level of fire safety and
prevention when applied to the circumstances of the requesting party than the
methods, materials, processes or systems otherwise required by the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   Such requests shall be approved or denied in writing within 120 days
of the receipt thereof by the Fire Chief and Fire Marshal unless the Fire Chief
and the requesting party shall agree to a different time in writing. The
written determination to approve or deny a request made hereunder shall specify
the grounds for the approval or the denial thereof, and shall be transmitted to
the requesting party.
   (C)   In lieu of the board of appeals established in accordance with the
2021 International Fire Code, Appendix A, all appeals of orders, decisions or
determinations made by the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal relative to the
application and interpretation of this code or the rules legally adopted shall
be heard by the village administrative hearing officer in accordance with §
41.20.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or Fire Marshal may from time to time have any request
or decision brought to the Village Board for final determination.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
**** FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU ****
§ 91.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Bureau is established in and for the Village Fire
Department, and shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief of the
Department. The Fire Chief and their designees of the Fire Prevention Bureau
shall be designated as fire code officials.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall designate a person trained and
qualified as set forth by the Fire Department as the Fire Marshal of the Fire
Prevention Bureau, who shall hold this office under the provisions outlined in
the International Fire Code, 2021 Edition, § 103. The Fire Marshal shall be
under the supervision of the Fire Chief and shall report to them directly.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department and/or Fire Marshal may also
designate a Deputy Fire Marshal, inspectors and/or technical advisors of the
Fire Prevention Bureau who shall serve under the same provisions as outlined in
the International Fire Code, 2021 Edition, § 103. This position shall be under
the supervision of the Fire Chief and Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 91.15) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.16 OFFICERS’ POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (1)   It shall be the duty of all officers of the Fire Prevention Bureau to
enforce all laws, ordinances, rules, standards and regulations of the state,
county and village, covering the following:
      (a)   Prevention of fires;
      (b)   The storage and use of explosives and flammable and combustible
materials;
      (c)   The installation and maintenance of fire protection systems, fire
alarm systems, commercial cooking systems and other fire safety systems;
      (d)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes, exit access and
exits from buildings or structures;
      (e)   The means and adequacy of egress in case of fire from factories,
schools, hotels, lodging houses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters,
amphitheaters and all other places in which numbers of people work, live or
congregate from time to time for any purpose;
      (f)   The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fires;
and
      (g)   All other ordinances now in effect, and those which may be
conferred and imposed from time to time by law, which would fall into the
jurisdiction of the Fire Prevention Bureau as hereinabove set forth, or as
otherwise provided by this chapter.
   (2)   For these purposes alone, the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal, Deputy
Fire Marshal and any assistants or inspectors that are officers of the Fire
Prevention Bureau are vested with the usual powers and authority of the police
officers of the village, and shall also have such other powers and perform such
other duties as are set forth in other sections of this chapter, and as may be
conferred and imposed from time to time by law, or as conservators of the peace
as provided by the statutes of this state. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
member of the Fire Prevention Bureau shall be permitted by the provisions of
this chapter to carry firearms unless the member has successfully completed all
training required by the state and is certified to carry such firearm in the
course of their duties. Upon completion of all such training, members of the
Fire Prevention Bureau may carry firearms in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and applicable law while actively engaged in the performance of
their duties to investigate the cause and origin of fires within their
jurisdiction.
   (3)   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Fire Marshal or Deputy Fire
Marshal, in their absence, may temporarily delegate any of their powers or
duties under this chapter to a fire department officer in charge, in the event
and only if immediate action pursuant to this chapter is required.
(Prior Code, § 91.16) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.17 DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF.
   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to investigate and to recommend
to the President and Board of Trustees, such additional ordinances, or
amendments to existing ordinances, as they may deem necessary from time to time
for safeguarding life and property against fire.
   (2)   The Fire Chief shall prepare instructions for the Fire Marshal and
their assistants and forms for their use in the reports required by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.17) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.18 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES; REPORTS.
   (1)   The Fire Prevention Bureau and Village Fire Department investigators
shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring
in the village, including the areas protected by the Lockport Township Fire
Protection District by which property has been destroyed or damaged and, so far
as possible, shall determine whether the fire is the result of carelessness or
design. The investigations shall begin immediately on occurrence of a fire, by
the investigator in whose response area the fire occurs. If it appears to the
officer conducting the investigation that the fire is of suspicious origin, the
Fire Chief and Fire Marshal shall immediately be notified of the fact. They
shall take charge immediately of the physical evidence, shall notify the proper
authorities designated by law to pursue the investigation of such matters and
shall further cooperate with the authorities in the collection of evidence and
prosecution of the case.
   (2)   Every fire that occurs in any area of the village shall be reported in
writing to the Fire Prevention Bureau within two days after the occurrence of
the same, by the officer in whose jurisdiction the fire has occurred. The
report shall be in such forms as shall be prescribed by the Fire Chief and
shall contain a statement of all facts relating to the cause, origin and
circumstances of the fire; the extent of the damage; and the insurance on the
property, and any other information as may be required.
   (3)   Establishment of the position of peace officer within the Village Fire
Department, as permitted by and in accordance with the provisions of 20 ILCS
2910/1, 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq. and 50 ILCS 710/0.01 et seq.
      (a)   There is created within the Village Fire Department the position of
arson investigator and said position shall be classified as a peace officer
under the laws of the state.
      (b)   The arson investigator shall be named by the Chief of the Fire
Department and shall comply with the following requirements:
         (i)   Be a full-time sworn member for the Village Fire Department;
         (ii)   Be a certified firefighter III/advanced firefighter with the
State Fire Marshal’s Office, Division of Personnel Standards and Education;
         (iii)   Be certified an arson investigator by the State Fire Marshal’s
Office, Division of Personnel Standards and Education, and maintain training
standards and continuing education as required; and
         (iv)   Be certified under a training program offered or approved by
the State Law Enforcement Training Standards Board which complies substantially
to standards promulgated to the Illinois Police Training Act, 50 ILCS 705/1 et
seq., an act in relation to firearms training for peace officers, 50 ILCS 710/
0.01 et seq.
   (4)   The arson investigator shall have the following duties and powers:
      (a)   To investigate, at the direction of the Chief of the Fire
Department or designee, all fires having an unknown cause and origin or
otherwise being suspicious in nature;
      (b)   To determine the cause, origin and circumstances of such fires or
explosions that are suspected to be arson or arson related crimes;
      (c)   To effectuate arrests when there exists probable cause to do so;
and
      (d)   To apply for and secure search warrants for arrests and searches;
and
      (e)   To execute search warrants and seize such evidence described in the
search warrant; and
      (f)   To carry weapons as may be necessary at all times in accordance
with this chapter and 20 ILCS 2910/1; and
      (g)   To perform all other necessary and reasonable actions as directed
by the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (5)   The arson investigator shall be considered a member of the Village
Fire Department and shall, in addition to duties imposed by sections of this
chapter, discharge the duties of firefighter or be assigned member of the Fire
Prevention Bureau.
(Prior Code, § 91.18) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.19 INSPECTION REQUIREMENT FOR DANGEROUS OR EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS.
   Before licenses may be issued by the village for the keeping, storage, use,
manufacture, sale, handling, transportation or other disposition of highly
flammable materials and rubbish, crude petroleum or any of its products, gun or
blasting powder, dynamite or explosives of any kind, including fireworks, fire
crackers and signaling explosives, the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal or the
Deputy Fire Marshal shall inspect and approve the receptacles, vehicles,
property, buildings or storage places to be used for these purposes. None of
the materials or substances set forth in this section shall be stored, kept,
used, manufactured, sold, handled, transported or otherwise disposed of without
the aforementioned inspection and approval and the issuance of a license,
except that the Fire Chief or an authorized officer of the Fire Prevention
Bureau may accept in lieu thereof a license, permit or other approval from a
federal, state or county authority having jurisdiction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.19) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.20 INSPECTION OF DANGEROUS MANUFACTURING PROCESSES AND THEIR SAFETY
SYSTEMS.
   The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal or a specifically
designated assistant shall inspect, as often as may be necessary, but not less
than annually, all especially hazardous manufacturing processes, storage or
installations of acetylene or other gases, chemicals, oils, explosives and
flammable materials, all interior fire alarms and automatic sprinkler systems,
and such other hazards and fire safety or fire prevention appliances as the
Fire Chief or their designee shall require, and shall make such orders as may
be necessary for the enforcement of the laws and ordinances governing the same
and for safeguarding life and property from fire.
(Prior Code, § 91.20) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.21 GENERAL INSPECTIONS.
   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal to inspect,
or cause to be inspected by the Fire Prevention Bureau, or by the Fire
Department officers and members, as often as necessary, all buildings, premises
and public thoroughfares except the interiors of private dwellings, for the
purposes of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to
cause fire, or for discovering any violations of the provisions or intent of
any ordinance of the village affecting fire hazards, fire safety or fire
prevention.
   (2)   Whenever any inspector shall find in any building, or on any premises
or other place, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous accumulations of
rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of waste paper, boxes, shavings or any
highly flammable materials especially liable to fire, and which is so situated
obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows,
liable to interfere with the operations of the Fire Department or egress of
occupants in case of fire, they shall order the same to be removed or remedied.
This order shall be complied with immediately by the owner or occupant of the
premises or building, subject to appeal within 24 hours to the Fire Marshal, as
provided in §
91.22.
   (3)   Any owner or occupant failing to comply with the order within a
reasonable period after the service of the order shall be prosecuted for a
violation of this chapter.
   (4)   The service of any such order may be made on the owner or occupant of
the premises in which the violation in question has been found, either by
delivering a copy to the owner or occupant personally or by delivering a copy
to and leaving it with any person in charge of the premises. In case no person
is found on the premises, by affixing a copy in a conspicuous place on the door
to the entrance of the premises. Alternatively, such notices may be served by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
(Prior Code, § 91.21) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.22 INSPECTION ON COMPLAINT OR OBVIOUS FIRE HAZARD.
   The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal or the inspectors of the
Fire Prevention Bureau shall inspect all buildings and premises within their
jurisdiction on the complaint of any person or whenever any of the officers
find any building or other structure which, for want of repairs, lack of or
insufficient fire escapes, automatic or other fire alarm apparatus or fire
extinguishing equipment, or by reason of age or dilapidated condition, or from
any other cause, is especially liable to fire and is so situated as to endanger
the occupants or other property. Whenever the officer finds in any building,
combustible or explosive matter or flammable conditions dangerous to the safety
of the building or the occupants, they shall order the dangerous conditions or
materials to be removed or otherwise remedied. The order shall be complied with
immediately by the owner or occupant of the premises or building. If an order
is made by the Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal or any fire inspectors, the
owner or occupant may within 24 hours appeal to the Fire Chief, who shall,
within five days, review the order and file their decision thereon. Unless by
their authority the order is revoked or modified, it shall remain in full force
and be complied with within the time fixed in the order or within a decision of
the Fire Chief on appeal of the order.
(Prior Code, § 91.22) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.23 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal or any fire inspector as a
member of the Fire Prevention Bureau may, at all reasonable hours, enter any
building or premises within their jurisdiction for the purpose of making any
inspection or investigation which, under the provisions of this subchapter,
they may deem necessary to be made.
(Prior Code, § 91.23) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.24 VILLAGE ATTORNEY TO ASSIST INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Village Attorney, on request of the Fire Prevention Bureau, shall assist
the fire investigators in the investigation of any fire that, in their opinion,
is of suspicious origin.
(Prior Code, § 91.24) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.25 SCHOOL FIRE DRILLS.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, it shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or
the Fire Marshal to require teachers of private, parochial schools and
educational institutions to have one fire drill biannually each school year.
(Prior Code, § 91.25) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.26 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief or Fire Marshal shall keep, in the office of the Fire
Prevention Bureau, a record of all fires and of all the facts concerning them,
including statistics as to the extent of the fires and the damage caused. The
record shall be made from the reports made by the investigators under the
provisions of this chapter. All records shall be made public.
(Prior Code, § 91.26) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.27 BUREAU ANNUAL AND MONTHLY REPORTS.
   The Fire Marshal shall make and convey to the Fire Chief a monthly report of
the Fire Prevention Bureau on or before the first of each month. It shall
contain all proceedings under this chapter, with such statistics as the Fire
Chief may wish to transmit to the Village President and the Board of Trustees.
The Fire Chief shall also annually recommend any amendments to this chapter
that, in their judgment, shall be desirable.
(Prior Code, § 91.27) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.28 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 91.29 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
**** FIREWORKS ****
§ 91.30 FIREWORKS DISPLAY PERMITS.
   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (a)   1.3G FIREWORKS. Those fireworks used for professional outdoor
displays and classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334 or UN0335 by the United
States Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. pt. 172.101.
      (b)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks that must comply with the
construction, chemical composition and labeling regulations of the U.S.
Consumer Products Safety Commission, as set forth in 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and
1507, and classified as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States
Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. pt. 172.101. CONSUMER FIREWORKS
shall not include snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers
known as “party poppers,” “booby traps,” “snappers,” “trick matches,”
“cigarette loads” and “auto burglar alarms;” sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes,
toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing twenty-five
hundredths grains or less of explosive compound are used; provided they are so
constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for
the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic caps that contain less than
twenty hundredths grains of explosive mixture, the sale and use of which shall
be permitted at all times.
      (c)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY or CONSUMER DISPLAY. The detonation,
ignition or deflagration of consumer fireworks to produce a visual or audible
effect.
      (d)   CONSUMER OPERATOR. An adult individual who is responsible for the
safety, setup and discharge of the consumer fireworks display and who has
completed the training required in 425 ILCS 35/2.2.
      (e)   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. 1.3G or special effects fireworks or as further
defined in the Pyrotechnic Operator Licensing Act (225 ILCS 227/1 et seq.).
      (f)   LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR. An individual who is responsible for the
safety, setup and discharge of the pyrotechnic display and who is licensed
pursuant to the Pyrotechnic Operator Licensing Act (225 ILCS 227/1 et seq.).
      (g)   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership,
company, consortium, joint venture or commercial entity.
      (h)   PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY. The detonation, ignition or deflagration of
display fireworks or flame effects to produce visual or audible effects of an
exhibition nature before the public, invitees or licensees, regardless of
whether admission is charged, and as may be further defined in the Pyrotechnic
Operator Licensing Act (225 ILCS 227/1 et seq.).
      (i)   SKY LANTERN. Any flying lantern or balloon not under the direct and
immediate physical control of its operator or launcher, sometimes also referred
to as a sky candle, fire balloon or airborne lantern, typically made of paper
over a wooden frame deriving its lift from air heated by a candle, open flame,
burning fuel cell or other source of heat mounted within or connected to the
frame of such device, intended to fly when released into the atmosphere. SKY
LANTERNS shall be expressly excluded from the definitions of consumer
fireworks, 1.3G fireworks and display fireworks as set forth in this chapter.
   (2)   Unlawful displays of fireworks prohibited; sky lanterns prohibited. It
shall be unlawful for any person to possess, display or allow to be displayed
consumer fireworks and/or display fireworks or any other fireworks defined in
this section within the corporate limits of the village without a valid permit
issued pursuant to the provisions of this section. It shall be unlawful for any
person to possess, display, use, sell, light, release, fly or ignite any sky
lantern within the corporate limits of the village, or to allow another person
to do so, nor shall any person be entitled to receive any permit otherwise
contemplated under or required by this chapter for the proposed use or display
of any consumer fireworks, 1.3G fireworks and display fireworks where such
proposed use or display includes or incorporates any use, display, release,
lighting, ignition or flying of any sky lanterns.
   (3)   Pyrotechnic firework displays. The use or display of display fireworks
or the conduct of any pyrotechnic display by any person within the village
shall only be permitted upon the submission to the village by such person of an
application demonstrating compliance with the following requirements.
      (a)   All persons shall file an application for a pyrotechnic display
permit at least 30 days in advance of the date of the pyrotechnic display.
      (b)   The application for a pyrotechnic display permit shall contain
identifying information for the person sponsoring the display, the exact
location of the display, the exact date and time of the display and identifying
information for the individual who is the licensed lead pyrotechnic operator
supervising the display.
      (c)   The application shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance
from an insurance company licensed to do business in the state evidencing a
minimum of $1,000,000 in liability coverage for personal injury/death and
property damage, in form and substance satisfactory to the village and which
cannot be canceled without 30 days’ prior written notice to the village. The
village, property owner(s), sponsor(s) and exhibitor(s) shall also, by written
endorsement, be named as an additional insured under such coverage. Along with
that, a hold harmless agreement shall be drafted and agreed upon by all parties
prior to the issuing of the permit.
      (d)   The application shall also be accompanied by a current and valid
copy of the lead pyrotechnic operator’s state license.
      (e)   The application shall also contain the site inspection information
reviewed and approved by the Fire Chief providing fire protection coverage to
the area of the display, or their designee, in accordance with state law.
      (f)   After the permit has been granted, the possession, use and display
of display fireworks shall be lawful for the date, purpose and/or event
identified in the application and permit only. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable.
      (g)   No permit shall be required for supervised displays of state or
county fair associations.
      (h)   The display application and permit shall be required from time to
time by the village, and the fee for the review of such application shall be
$425 as noted in §
43.03(B) Table 3.
      (i)   No permit shall be issued for any proposed display that includes
the use, release, ignition, display, lighting or flight of sky lanterns.
      (j)   All displays shall be electronically fired. No hand lightning of
any kind will be allowed.
      (k)   Wind speed requirements shall be based off of the National Weather
Service located in the village.
         (i)   Zero to 14 mph: these conditions are the most desirable when
complying with safety distances along with general information found in the
most current edition of NFPA 1123, Code for Fireworks Displays.
         (ii)   Fifteen to 21 mph: land displays with limited fallout areas
shall require added separation distances up to, but not limited to, 100 feet
per inch of shell diameter. A pre-display test shot shall be required to
determine if further adjustments will need to be made.
         (iii)   Twenty-one mph or greater: the display shall be postponed or
rescheduled until conditions fall below the threshold.
   (4)   Endangerment. If at any time the Fire Chief or their designee feels
that the firing of the display may endanger lives or property for any reason,
including weather related and ground conditions, the permit shall immediately
be revoked and the display be postponed, delayed, canceled or rescheduled.
   (5)   Distance requirements. Use of private or consumer fireworks or
displays within any residential area, or within 800 feet of a residential
property or home, a public or private park, public or private roadway, public
or private utility is strictly prohibited.
   (6)   Consumer firework displays. The use or display of consumer fireworks
in any manner by any person within the village shall not be permitted.
   (7)   Adoption of certain codes and standards by reference. The rules and
regulations, as may from time to time be amended, for the administration of the
Fireworks Pyrotechnic Use Act (425 ILCS 35/0.01 et seq.), promulgated or
adopted by the State Fire Marshal, including, but not limited to, National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 Guidelines for Outdoor Displays, NFPA 1126
Standard for the Use of Pyrotechnics Before a Proximate Audience (2021),
audience proximity distances for consumer display fireworks and the list of
approved consumer fireworks are adopted herein by reference, and shall be used
to supplement the express requirements of this section, and shall have the same
force and effect as any such express provision of this section.
   (8)   NFPA editions. The most current editions of NFPA 1123 guidelines for
outdoor displays; NFPA 1126 Standard for the Use of Pyrotechnics Before a
Proximate Audience (2021); 1124 Code for the Manufacture, Transportation and
Storage of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles; and NFPA 160 Standard for the
Use of Flame Effects Before an Audience shall be enforced.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) (Ord. 07-0515, passed 3-7-2007; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
**** OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED ****
§ 91.35 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   Unless otherwise lawfully authorized by the State Environmental Protection
Agency, the Village Fire Department or this village code, no person, firm,
partnership, corporation, association or other entity shall cause or permit the
open burning of any waste, garbage, landscape waste, municipal waste or organic
matter within the corporate limits of the village. As used herein, WASTE shall
have the meaning set forth therefor in 415 ILCS 5/3.535, as amended from time
to time; GARBAGE shall have the meaning set forth therefore in 415 ILCS 5/
3.200, as amended from time to time; LANDSCAPE WASTE shall have the meaning set
forth therefore in 415 ILCS 5/3.270, as amended from time to time; and OPEN
BURNING shall have the meaning set forth therefore in 415 ILCS 5/3.300, as
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 91.35) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 EXCEPTIONS TO OPEN BURNING PROHIBITION.
   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
91.35, it shall not be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership,
association or other entity to burn aged logs in a freestanding outdoor
fireplace which employs screens and a lid to completely enclose the fire and
burning logs contained therein or an enclosed masonry constructed fire place
with a chimney and a burn area surface size no larger than three feet by three
feet, subject, however, to the following conditions.
      (a)   Only aged logs shall be burned in the above-described type of
outdoor fireplace.
      (b)   Any outdoor fireplace used pursuant to this section shall not be
located less than ten feet from the nearest portion of any structure, tree or
building, and shall in no case be located underneath any overhanging portion of
any structure, tree or building, regardless of the distance between the
overhang and the outdoor fireplace in question and shall not be placed on a
combustible deck or flooring.
      (c)   No outdoor fireplace shall be utilized for the purpose permitted by
this section at any time when the wind speed within the corporate limits of the
village, as determined by the National Weather Service Office in the village,
exceeds 15 mph.
      (d)   All outdoor fireplace use permitted by this section shall adhere
strictly to all manufacturer guidelines and specifications issued with respect
to the make and model of outdoor fireplace in question.
   (e)   Once a fire is started in an outdoor fireplace in conformity with this
section, the lid and side screens therefor shall be secured to the outdoor
fireplace and not removed therefrom until the fire is out or extinguished, and
no object whatsoever shall be permitted to protrude outside said lid and
screens while a fire is burning in the outdoor fireplace.
(Prior Code, § 91.36) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
**** FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION IN BUILDINGS ****
§ 91.45 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person, firm, partnership, association or corporation shall construct or
cause to be constructed any buildings within the territorial limits of the
village until the plans and specifications of the building or structure have
been reviewed by the Department of Community Development and the Fire
Prevention Bureau and until such plans and specifications have been determined
to be in compliance with the regulations and standards contained in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.45) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 PROVISION FOR WATER AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (1)   No building shall be constructed until such time the Village Fire
Chief or Fire Marshal has approved the location and type of fire hydrants. Each
hydrant shall meet ANSI/AWWA C502, UL246 and FM 1510 Standards. Fire hydrants
shall have a ‘Harrington’ five-inch Storz pumper nozzle with two two and one-
half-inch NST hose nozzles.
   (2)   Fire hydrants shall be spaced at 300 feet maximum. Where required by
the Fire Marshal, water mains shall be looped around sites, buildings or
complexes and hydrants spaced no more than 300 feet apart. All private system
fire hydrants shall be painted yellow to identify them. Public system fire
hydrants shall be painted red.
   (3)   Dead end mains shall not be allowed in residential subdivisions or in
commercial and industrial parks.
   (4)   Fire hydrants located in commercial or industrial parking areas, dock
areas or along fire lanes shall be protected by concrete bollards.
(Prior Code, § 91.46) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 EXIT CONSTRUCTION, EXIT SIGNAGE AND TRAVEL DISTANCES IN BUILDINGS.
   (1)   In each building, all stairways and stairwells and exit corridors
shall be of approved two-hour construction and shall be of the smoke-proof
tower type. The Fire Chief or Fire Marshal shall approve the number and
location of the stairwells.
   (2)   In buildings three stories or more in height, all stairways and
stairwells shall be constructed of masonry.
   (3)   All exit stairwells shall be in compliance with signage requirements
found in §
91.62.
   (4)   Floor proximity exit signs shall be installed in the following use
groups as outlined in Chapter 3 of the International Building Code, 2021
Edition: A-1, A-2, A-3, I-1, I-2, I-3, R-1 and R-2. The bottom of the signs
shall be located no less than six inches or more than eight inches above the
floor. For exit doors, the sign shall be placed on the wall no more than four
inches from the door frame. These signs shall be in addition to all other
required signage by any code or standard.
   (5)   In buildings and warehouses with high piled or rack storage,
additional exit signs shall be required. Large hanging exit signs with
photoluminescent or reflective lettering must be placed in the aisles to direct
occupants towards nearest exit. The signs shall be located at the end of the
rows, in the dock aisles, perpendicular to the exit doors. Approved sizes for
hanging signs are 24 inches by 36 inches (up to 16 feet from floor) or 36
inches by 48 inches (for heights above 16 feet). They may be single-sided for
flat wall mounting applications or double-sided for hanging applications. If a
directional arrow is used, it must be at the end of the word “EXIT” as not to
reduce the size of the lettering. The sign shall be made of a rigid material as
to not allow bowing or sagging when hung from above. Signs that are not
illuminated (back lit) will require one of the two options.
      (a)   Reflective only signs require external illumination upon power
outage by an emergency light or by a light powered by generator or PV system on
both sides of the sign or on one side if wall mounted flat.
      (b)   Photoluminescent (glow in the dark) reflective signs do not require
external illumination.
   (6)   Racking tunnels that are adjacent to egress routes that lead directly
to exits shall also display an exit sign with a directional arrow pointed to
the direction of the exit(s). Exit signs may be of illuminated type or
photoluminescent type and shall be no smaller than eight inches by 12 inches.
   (7)   All exit access areas, exits and exit discharge areas shall be
maintained and allow for unimpeded egress from the building or location. See §
91.48.
   (8)   Exit access travel distances shall be in accordance with Table 1017.2
of the 2021 International Fire Code.
      Exception: Group F-1 and S-1 exit access travel increase.
   (9)   The maximum exit access travel distance may be increased to 400 feet
for buildings with a ceiling height of less than 24 feet, where the portion of
the building classified as Group F-1 or S-1 is equipped with an early
suppression fast response (ESFR) fire sprinkler system and mechanical smoke
exhaust as outlined and installed in accordance with Chapter 9, § 910.4 of the
2015 International Fire Code, as modified by Appendix A of this chapter. For
one-story buildings, ceiling height of 24 feet or greater height reference
Chapter 10, § 1017.2.2 of the 2021 International Fire Code.
   (10)   A smoke study commissioned and paid for by the building owner may be
submitted for approval to allow a 400-foot travel distance for buildings less
than 24 feet in height. The smoke study shall prove favorably that the smoke
will not go below the six-foot interface level during the travel time
established by the study. The study shall include six fire scenarios and
include all documentation and calculations to substantiate the time and
distance.
(Prior Code, § 91.47) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.48 OBSTRUCTIONS TO EXITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, tenant, manager, agents or contracted
employees of buildings to permit or cause any accumulation of garbage, trash,
snow/ice or other stored objects in, around or on any exit, entryway, corridor,
stairway, stairwell or other public areas used as part of an entryway or exit
from a building or location.
(Prior Code, § 91.48) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-
7-2012; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty,
see §
91.99
§ 91.49 FIRE LANES/EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS.
   (1)   Location. Whenever an officer of the Fire Prevention Bureau finds that
a fire lane is required to provide access to buildings, structures or fire
hydrants for firefighting vehicles or equipment in order to prevent or
eliminate a dangerous or hazardous condition, the Fire Marshal or designee
shall require such fire lane or lanes as may be necessary. Where the approved
fire lane(s) cannot be provided, additional approved fire protection measures
or systems(s) shall be provided as required and approved by the officer of the
Fire Prevention Bureau. All required emergency access roads and lanes shall be
maintained and free of obstructions, including, but not limited to, snow and
ice. It shall be unlawful for any person to block or obstruct a posted fire
lane.
   (2)   Posting and marking of fire lanes.
      (a)   All fire lanes shall be designated with all-weather signs that
read: “FIRE LANE – NO PARKING OR STANDING.”
      (b)   Fire lanes 26 feet wide or greater shall be posted on one side of
the lane as identified by the Fire Marshal or the Deputy Fire Marshal.
   (3)   Spacing. Signs shall be spaced in the following manner.
      (a)   First sign shall be located 15 feet from the beginning of the lane.
      (b)   Last sign shall be located at 15 feet from the end of the lane.
      (c)   Spaced at a maximum of 75 feet intervals between the first and last
sign.
   (4)   Fire lane marking. Designated fire lanes that do not have a defined
way such as a curbed road shall be marked on the pavement.
   (5)   Minimum width and construction of fire lanes. All fire lanes required
by this code shall be a minimum of 26 feet width, and constructed of hard
surfaced material capable of supporting the imposed load of the heaviest fire
apparatus (currently 82,000 pounds). The type of construction and material
shall be approved by the Fire Marshal.
   (6)   Grass-crete. “Grass-crete” or other similar construction shall not be
used.
   (7)   Hydrants. Where hydrants are located on fire lanes, the width of the
lane shall be increased to 30 feet to allow passage of other emergency
vehicles.
   (8)   Turning radii. Turning radii for all fire lanes shall conform to
division (10) below.
   (9)   Perimeters. Without otherwise limiting or restricting the authority of
the Fire Prevention Bureau or its officers under division (1) above to require
other or further amounts of fire lanes in response to particular hazards or
conditions, all buildings less than 30,000 square feet in total area shall have
a fire lane around at least 25% of the perimeter of the building; all buildings
30,000 square feet or more in total area but less than 80,000 square feet in
total area shall have a fire lane around at least 50% of the perimeter of the
building; and all buildings 80,000 square feet or more in total area shall have
a fire lane around 100% of the perimeter of the building.
   (10)   Access roads. Access to and around all planned building groups shall
have at least two access roads and they shall be designed to allow unimpeded
access to all areas. The corner turning radiuses shall be designed to
accommodate AASHTO B40 design vehicles. All access roads and fire lane dead
ends shall comply with Appendix D of the International Fire Code, 2021 Edition,
if not otherwise specified in this chapter. The type of dead-end shall be
approved by the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Deputy Fire Marshal.
   (11)   Protrusions. Canopies, overhangs or any other type of protrusions
into Fire Department access routes shall be a minimum 15 feet clear height.
   (12)   Gates. All gates, powered or manual, shall have a rapid entry key box
with keys at the gate, rapid entry padlocks or a bypass opening device approved
and used by the Fire Department. The clear opening through the gate shall be
two feet wider than the drive lane and shall open inward. Any islands
constructed for gates shall not impede the travel or turning radius for
emergency vehicle access. Gates shall be set back 30 feet from roadways where
required by Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Deputy Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 91.49) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.50 ELEVATORS.
   (1)   All elevators shall have key operated override and recall controls, as
approved by the Bureau of Fire Prevention. The recall control shall be located
on the ground floor. The override control in each elevator shall override all
elevator call devices. No elevator call device shall be sensitive to heat,
water, light or smoke.
   (2)   At least one elevator shall be designed to allow access to and hold an
ambulance crew of two and a cot of not less than 24 inches by 86 inches in size
with a patient in horizontal position. This elevator shall be marked with the
international symbol for emergency medical services (Star of Life) at the
elevator access on the level(s) of exit discharge. The symbol shall be not less
than three inches high and be located on both sides of the elevator doorframe.
   (3)   Emergency door access and emergency access keys for elevators shall be
provided on all floors of the building.
   (4)   Two-way communications shall be connected to the Village Fire
Department Dispatch Center emergency number, 9-1-1 or other location approved
by the Fire Marshal.
   (5)   All new and existing buildings that have an elevator shall have an
elevator rapid entry key box (elevator knox box). The type to be used shall be
the style and manufacturer approved by the Village Fire Department. The
location of the key box shall be installed at the call floor of the elevator
and determined by the Fire Department with a height not to exceed six feet from
the floor. All keys required to gain entry into and control the elevator will
be provided in the box(es). If changes are made to the elevator keys, controls
or locks, the Fire Department shall be notified immediately to change the keys
stored in the box.
(Prior Code, § 91.50) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.51 FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (1)   Where required.
      (a)   An automatic fire alarm system shall be installed in all buildings
regardless of the use group or other protection systems specified for such a
building by any standard or code incorporated herein by reference. The
automatic fire alarm system shall be approved for the particular application
and shall be used only for fire detection and signaling.
      (b)   Total coverage detection shall be installed when a building is not
equipped with a fire sprinkler or approved alternative fire suppression system.
All devices shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 72, 2019 Edition,
Chapter 17. Buildings equipped with a fire sprinkler or approved alternative
fire suppression system, partial and selective coverage as outlined in §
17.5.3.2 shall be provided.
   (2)   Installation requirements.
      (a)   Design, installation, testing and maintenance of all fire alarm
systems shall be done by qualified and experienced personnel as outlined in
NFPA 72, Chapter 10 of the 2019 Edition.
      (b)   Fire alarm system design for installation or modification, shall
require plans and document submittals in accordance with NFPA 72, 2019 Edition
and the items listed in this section. No work shall be performed until plans
are reviewed and approved.
      (c)   Installing and servicing contractors of fire alarm systems shall
also be subject to the following requirements:
         (i)   Provide a current copy of a valid State Department of Financial
and Professional Regulation (IDFPR) private alarm contractor’s license or as
per an exemption from obtaining a private alarm contractor’s license if the
fire alarm system work is performed by a licensed electrical contractor;
         (ii)   Installers/contractors shall also be registered with the
village as a private alarm contractor - fire alarm installer; and
         (iii)   Installers/contractors shall provide a certificate of
insurance with the village listed as additional insured.
   (3)   Power. All systems shall be powered by the most reliable source
obtainable at the building and have a minimum 24-hour power back-up supply. All
fire alarm systems shall be of the closed-circuit type and be electrically or
mechanically supervised.
   (4)   Testing and maintenance. All automatic fire alarm systems shall be
tested at least one time per year at the cost of owner. All maintenance and
testing shall be done by individuals certified and qualified to do so. All
annual test and maintenance reports shall be forwarded to the Village Fire
Prevention Bureau within 20 days of completion.
   (5)   Out of service period. A fire alarm system shall not be out of service
for a period exceeding 48 hours; if this occurs, reference §
91.59.
   (6)   Radio transmitter. All automatic fire alarm systems required under
this division (6) and installed after its adoption shall be required to
automatically transmit the presence of any alarm condition directly to the
Village Fire Department Emergency Dispatch Center by means of a radio
transmitter as approved by the Fire Prevention Bureau or its designee. The
village shall cause all radio transmitters and related equipment required in
connection therewith to be supplied and installed in compliance with such
specifications as the village shall from time to time require, as set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter. All such radio transmitters and related equipment
shall be leased to the owner of the building or structure to be served thereby,
upon such fees and charges as the village may from time to time authorize by
ordinance, as set forth in
Chapter 43. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this division (6), the
village, at its sole discretion, may from time to time contract with third
parties for the acquisition, leasing and maintenance of the radio transmitters
and related equipment required hereunder.
   (7)   Detecting devices. All automatic fire alarm systems shall include
detecting devices. The automatic detecting devices shall be approved smoke
detectors and/or heat detectors according to NFPA recommendations and according
to the recommendations of the Bureau of Fire Prevention or its authorized
designee.
   (8)   Manual pull stations. Manual pull stations shall be installed at all
exits leading to the outside of building. All pull boxes shall be between three
and one-half to five feet from the floor.
   (9)   Alarms, audio and visual devices. Approved audible and visual alarms
shall be required. All audible alarms will be of the horn variety and will be
accompanied with strobe lights. The operation of any detection device shall
cause all audible and visual alarms to operate alarms. An outdoor rated visual
device with a clear lens shall be placed outside the exterior door that is
labeled “FACP” and provides access to the fire alarm control panel. This device
will activate on any general fire alarm
   (10)   Duct detection. Duct detectors shall be programmed as a supervisory
only signal and upon activation will automatically shut down any affected HVAC/
MAU/AHU unit until cleared. Any building that has duct detection must also have
a fire alarm annunciator located in an office area, maintenance office or other
common area that is staffed while the building or space is occupied. Remote
test stations for all duct detectors shall be installed adjacent to the fire
alarm control panel or other location(s) approved by the Fire Marshal, Deputy
Fire Marshal or inspector prior to installation.
   (11)   Fire alarm zones. Each floor shall be zoned separately. No zone shall
exceed 20,000 square feet or 200 feet in any direction. Zoning indicator panels
and controls shall be approved and located by the Bureau of Fire Prevention.
Annunciators shall lock in until the Fire Department resets the alarm system.
   (12)   Fire alarm control panel and annunciators. The fire alarm control
panel shall be an addressable type and capable to monitor all devices and zones
within the building. The fire alarm control panel shall not require the use of
codes or keys for operation by Fire Department personnel. Fire alarm
annunciators (if installed) shall only provide a means to locally receive audio
and visual notification of an alarm and shall not permit the end user to
perform any function, including acknowledge, silence restore or resetting of
the alarm. All functions must be controlled from the fire alarm control panel
by Fire Department personnel.
   (13)   Fire protection controls. The fire alarm control panel, sprinkler
system and any other fire protection controls for Fire Department use shall be
located in the fire command room for the building as described in §
91.52(6).
   (14)   Zone/device address maps. Zone/device address maps are required to be
installed at the fire alarm control panel and/or at a location designated by
the Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire Marshal or Fire Inspector in all existing, new,
additions and modifications to fire alarm installations except for one- and
two-family residential buildings.
   (15)   Functionality inspection and acceptance test. A functionality
inspection and acceptance test shall be witnessed by a representative of the
Fire Prevention Bureau of any installation, addition or modification to the
fire alarm system prior to occupancy and use of the space. The installing
contractor shall provide all necessary test equipment.
   (16)   Residential smoke alarms. Residential smoke alarms shall be in
compliance with Chapter 24, § 24.3.4 of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, 2021
Edition.
   (17)   Wiring and cables. Any exposed vertical wiring shall be installed in
three-fourths inch minimum conduit and routed to the roof deck or above the
finished ceiling. Any horizontal wiring shall be installed in cable trays,
electrical raceway, rings, hooks or straps. Wiring of any type shall not be
attached to piping or conduit. Cables shall be installed in neat and orderly
fashion with no excessive loops or drops.
   (18)   Service time frames. Fire alarm systems shall maintain an operational
normal status and not exceed the following service time frames:
      (a)   Fire alarm system out of service: 48 hours to repair and return to
normal status (see division (5) above);
      (b)   Fire alarm trouble condition: seven days to repair and return to
normal status; and
      (c)   Fire alarm supervisory condition: 14 days to repair and return to
normal status.
   From time to time a representative of the Fire Prevention Bureau shall
specifically be authorized to extend or reduce the time frame to repair at
their discretion.
(Prior Code, § 91.51) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.52 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (1)   Automatic fire sprinkler system. Automatic fire sprinkler systems
shall be installed per this section in all use groups as outlined in Chapter 2
of the 2021 Edition of the International Fire Code regardless of their square
footage. Each automatic fire sprinkler system shall be installed to the NFPA
Standard referenced in the 2021 Editions of the International Building and
International Fire Codes. Exception to this division (1): detached utility use
group structures as defined in Chapter 3 of the 2021 International Building
Code. The utility structure shall be less than 250 square feet in area and
single story, not used as dwelling or storage of hazardous chemicals or
materials. The structure must be a minimum of 30 feet from any other building
or structure.
   (2)   One- and two-family dwellings.
      (a)   Selective area fire sprinkler coverage, as outlined below shall be
installed in all attached one- and two-family dwellings, as defined in the 2021
Residential Code. This shall include, but not be limited to, duplexes,
townhouses and condominiums.
      (b)   Selective area fire sprinkler coverage as outlined below shall be
installed in detached single-family dwellings where any portion of the building
or structure is separated by ten feet or less from any portion of another
dwelling to the front, sides or rear on the same or adjoining lot.
   (3)   Selective area coverage. Fire sprinkler coverage shall be installed in
kitchen(s), furnace room(s) and laundry room(s). Each room or area shall have
at least one sprinkler head installed in accordance with the applicable
sections of Chapters 7 and 8 of NFPA 13D, 2019 Edition for the type of
sprinkler, temperature rating, distances from heat sources and obstructions and
minimum operating pressures. The sprinkler water supply can be supplied from
the domestic system in accordance with § 890.1130 of the 2014 Illinois Plumbing
Code. This selective area requirement is only designed to control fires in some
statistically fire prone areas and does not prevent the homeowner from electing
to install full or additional coverage in accordance with the aforementioned
NFPA 13D standard.
   (4)   Compliance. Compliance with the provisions of this section shall not
relieve any person from compliance with any applicable provisions of this
chapter concerning smoke or heat detection devices.
   (5)   Installation requirements.
      (a)   Design, installation, testing and maintenance of all fire sprinkler
systems shall be done by qualified and experienced personnel as outlined in
NFPA 13, 13R and 13D, 2019 Editions.
      (b)   Fire sprinkler system design for installation or modification,
shall require plans and document submittals in accordance with NFPA 13, 13R and
13D, 2019 Editions and the items listed in that section. No work shall be
performed until plans are reviewed and approved.
      (c)   Installing and servicing contractors of fire sprinkler systems
shall also be subject to the following requirements:
         (i)   Provide a current copy of a valid Office of the State Fire
Marshal fire sprinkler contractor’s license or an exemption as per 41 I.A.C. §
109, Illinois Fire Sprinkler Contractor Licensing Act (225 ILCS 317);
         (ii)   Installers/contractors shall also be registered with the
village as a fire sprinkler contractor - fire sprinkler installer;
         (iii)   Installers/contractors shall provide a certificate of
insurance with the village listed as additional insured; and
         (iv)   Permit bond.
   (6)   Testing and inspection. All fire sprinkler systems shall be tested and
inspected annually and every five year (internal inspection) by a company
licensed to do so. All test and inspection reports shall be forwarded to the
Village Fire Prevention Bureau within 20 days of completion.
   (7)   Fire command room/sprinkler riser room. Any newly constructed
structure, any existing building remodel, any structure square footage
increases or any existing building that has been determined to be required to
come into compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all adopted
standards, codes and appendixes shall be required to construct an exterior
accessible fire command room/sprinkler riser room if one does not exist.
      (a)   Fire command/sprinkler riser rooms shall be located on an outside
wall at grade and at a location that is acceptable to the Fire Marshal.
      (b)   Such rooms shall be separated from the remainder of the building by
no less than a one-hour rated fire barrier and provided with a minimum 45-
minute door having a minimum opening of 36 inches to the exterior only.
Interior access shall not be permitted.
      (c)   This room shall contain sprinkler control valves, sprinkler
backflow assembly, fire pump and associated components, fire alarm control
panel(s), area of rescue master control and fire emergency voice/alarm
communications system controls and any smoke exhaust fan controls.
      (d)   Such rooms shall be of a size that will allow a minimum of 36-inch
clearance around all portions of the fire pump assembly and in front of the
fire alarm panel(s). Dry pipe valves/risers shall have a minimum of 36 inches
clear space at the front and both sides and 18 inches at the back. Wet risers
shall have a minimum of 24-inch clear space at the front and both sides and 18
inches at the back.
      (e)   The room shall have a thermostatically controlled heat source
capable of maintaining a minimum of 40°F to prevent freezing and shall have a
low temperature alarm connected to the fire alarm system that will send a
trouble signal to the dispatch center upon activation.
      (f)   All drains are to be plumbed to the exterior of the building. No
other uses or storage shall be permitted in this room unless essential to the
operation of the fire protection systems.
      (g)   The room shall be equipped with emergency lighting.
(Prior Code, § 91.52) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.53 SPRINKLER ALARMS.
   Approved audible alarms as described below shall be connected to every
system and must activate when any sprinkler system water flow is activated.
   (1)   A ten-inch bell shall be located on the exterior of the building at
the location of the Fire Department connection or at a location determined by
the Fire Marshal.
   (2)   A six-inch alarm bell shall be installed in the interior of the
building in an area other than in the fire command room or fire sprinkler room.
(Prior Code, § 91.53) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.54 SPRINKLER SYSTEM SUPERVISION AND PROTECTION.
   (1)   Valves controlling fire sprinkler systems shall be supervised open by
the following:
      (a)   Chained and locked in open position; keys for the locks shall be
provided to the Fire Department to be placed in the rapid entry key box;
      (b)   A local audible alarm at the fire alarm control panel, and
annunciators (if equipped) with transmission of a trouble signal to Fire
Department dispatch center; and
      (c)   Sprinkler risers and banks located in open areas shall be protected
from damage to include possible collision with vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 91.54) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.55 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS.
   (1)   All sprinkler and standpipe systems shall be provided with at least
one five-inch Storz Fire Department connection with a 30-degree elbow toward
grade. The single connection shall be capable to supply the entire system.
   (2)   All Fire Department connections that feed the automatic sprinkler
system shall have a round wall plate on the connection that reads “AUTO SPKR,”
for connections that feed both standpipe and sprinkler system shall have a
round wall plate on the connection that reads “STANDPIPE - AUTO SPKR” and for
connections that feed the standpipe or hose valves shall have a round wall
plate at the connection that reads “STANDPIPE” on the connection.
   (3)   An outdoor rated red lens strobe shall be provided. It shall be
connected to the fire alarm system and activate when the fire sprinkler water
flow occurs anywhere in the system. It shall be installed directly above the
Fire Department connection(s) on the exterior wall, at a height of eight to ten
feet from the centerline on FDC inlet.
(Prior Code, § 91.55) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.56 LOCATION AND HEIGHT OF FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS.
   (1)   The Fire Department Connection (FDC) shall be located within 75 feet
of a fire hydrant, accessible from a fire lane and visible on a street front or
other location approved by the Fire Marshal.
   (2)   The FDC shall not be less than two feet and not more than three and
one-half feet in elevation, measured from grade to centerline on FDC inlet.
   (3)   There shall be five feet of clearance in all directions for the FDC.
No obstructions shall be permitted within this clearance area. Any obstructions
in this clearance area shall immediately be removed. Obstructions may include,
but are not limited to, landscaping, shrubs, bushes or trees.
   (4)   A remote FDC shall be required if the distance from the FDC to the
fire hydrant or fire apparatus access is greater than 75 feet.
(Prior Code, § 91.56) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.57 STANDPIPE SYSTEMS, HOSE VALVES.
   (1)   Class I standpipe systems shall be required in the following
structures:
      (a)   In all buildings two stories or greater in height; and
      (b)   Any other buildings or structures where required by code.
   (2)   A hose valve system shall be required in the following structures:
      (a)   In all buildings when the total occupied area is 25,000 square feet
or greater; and
      (b)   The system shall be designed as follows.
         (i)   The system shall, at a minimum, supply 250 gpm at 100 psi at the
farthest most remote hose valve.
         (ii)   The hose valves shall be constructed of a minimum two and one-
half inch pipe connected to an adjacent system, the piping that the hose valve
is fed by shall be four inches or greater on the adjacent system.
   (3)   Each standpipe/hose valve shall have a two and one-half-inch (NST)
Fire Department connection with a removable two and one-half-inch to one and
one-twelfth-inch adapter. All valves shall be of the non-pressure reducing
type. Standpipe valves/hose valves shall be located at all entry/exit doors and
elsewhere throughout the building as required by code or as required and
approved by the Fire Marshal. All valves shall be designed to run perpendicular
to the floor. All standpipe piping shall be four inches in diameter including
any and all other locations described in any other referenced code or standard
as a “hose station.” Any reference in any such code or standard to a “hose
station” shall be deemed to refer to the standpipe requirements of this
chapter.
   (4)   All building columns where standpipes/hose valves are located shall be
painted red from ceiling level to floor.
   (5)   Areas where standpipes/hose valves are attached to walls shall have a
red stripe two feet wide from ceiling level to floor.
   (6)   All standpipes/hose valves fastened to racking or shelving systems
shall have the pipe painted red from the ceiling level to the valve and a two-
foot by two-foot red square painted on the floor beneath the valve extending
toward the aisle way.
   (7)   All standpipe systems shall be designed to deliver the required GPM
and pressures as set forth in NFPA 14, Chapter 5 of the 2019 Edition.
   (8)   Any hose valve/standpipe located at a door shall not be installed
within 12 inches from the vertical edge of the door frame as to not interfere
with ADA signage at the door.
(Prior Code, § 91.57) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.58 RAPID ENTRY KEY BOX (KNOX BOX) AND CRITICAL DOCUMENT CABINET.
   (1)   All buildings or complexes other than one- and two-family residential
buildings shall have a rapid entry key box. The model and manufacturer of the
rapid entry key box to be used shall be supplied by the vendor currently
required by the Village Fire Department.
   (2)   The location of the key box shall be determined by the Fire Marshal
with a height between five to six feet from ground level.
   (3)   Additional key boxes shall be required where determined by the Fire
Department.
   (4)   All keys required to gain entry to any area interior or exterior will
be provided in the box(es), including electronic access cards or codes if used.
   (5)   If changes are made to the locks, the Fire Department shall be
notified immediately to change the keys located in the box.
   (6)   Occupancies containing special hazards as determined by the Fire
Prevention Bureau may be required to provide a separate critical document
cabinet. The information shall be stored in the cabinet located in the fire
command room or as directed by the fire code official. The model of the cabinet
shall be the type and of the manufacturer used by the Village Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 91.58) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.59 FIRE LOSS PREVENTION/FIRE WATCH.
   (1)   Where a required fire alarm or sprinkler system is out of service for
more than four hours, the authority having jurisdiction shall be notified and
the building shall be evacuated or an approved fire watch that conforms to the
requirements of NFPA 601, 2020 Edition, Fire Loss Prevention, shall be provided
until the system is back in service. The individuals assigned to fire watch
shall be trained in fire prevention principles, occupant and Fire Department
notification techniques as required by NFPA 601 and documentation of training
shall be submitted to the authority having jurisdiction.
   (2)   Village firefighters from time to time may be available to provide
fire watch service for the premises, but only if no other service or trained
personnel are available and the service of off-duty firefighters is requested
by the building owner or occupant.
   (3)   If off-duty firefighters are requested by management to provide the
fire watch service, the off-duty firefighters shall be compensated according to
§
43.03(B) Table 8.
(Prior Code, § 91.59) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.60 CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS/DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   Residential carbon monoxide alarms shall be in compliance with Chapter 24, §
24.3.4.2 of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, 2021 Edition.
(Prior Code, § 91.60) (Ord. 06-0481, passed 12-6-2006; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.61 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   (1)   Portable fire extinguishers shall be located at each door leading to
the exterior of the building of all classes of occupancies, in group R
occupancies, located at exterior doors of common areas and in utility, laundry
and kitchen spaces. Single-family and two-family dwellings excluded.
   (2)   All fire extinguishers mounted on columns will be identified with a
two-foot red stripe around the entire column starting at ten feet from the
floor and ending at 12 feet. On columns lower than 12 feet, the red stripe will
start at the ceiling and drop two feet down and fire extinguisher signs will
also be required, mounted at six feet from the finished floor visible from all
directions installed at each column.
   (3)   All fire extinguishers installed or mounted on walls shall have fire
extinguisher signs visible from all directions mounted at six feet from the
finished floor installed at each location.
   (4)   All fire extinguishers fastened to racking or shelving systems shall
have required signage extending into the aisle at each fire extinguisher
location and shall also have a two foot by two foot red square painted on the
floor beneath the extinguisher from the edge of the rack or shelving extending
into the aisle way.
(Prior Code, § 91.61) (Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-
7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.62 SPECIAL SIGNAGE AND LABELING.
   (1)   All fire and life safety signage and labeling shall be regularly
maintained and legible, including the items from this section.
   (2)   The door that provides access to the fire alarm control panel location
shall be marked “FACP” in minimum four-inch Arabic letters, with a three-
eighths-inch stroke and of contrasting color to the door. Fire command rooms
that contain fire alarm and sprinkler controls shall be labeled “FACP/ FIRE
SPRINKLER ROOM.”
   (3)   The door to rooms that are dedicated to sprinkler systems only shall
be labeled on the exterior of the door in four-inch minimum Arabic letters of
contrasting color that reads “FIRE SPRINKLER ROOM.”
   (4)   Fire Department connection (FDC) signs shall be required and will be
mounted on the exterior wall above the hose connection. The sign shall have a
red background and white reflective Arabic lettering six inches in height that
reads “FDC.” It shall be mounted at a height between eight to ten feet from the
centerline on FDC inlet.
   (5)   A sign shall be placed on the exterior wall directly above each FDC
for sprinkler, standpipe or combination systems that indicates the GPM @ PSI
required for the system that it is connected to.
   (6)   All exterior doors behind which any standpipe/hose valve is located
shall be marked with Arabic letters not less than four inches in height, three-
eighths-inch stroke that reads “FIRE DEPARTMENT HOSE VALVE” or other
terminology as approved by the Fire Marshal.
   (7)   Building door identification numbers shall be provided on commercial
and industrial buildings to facilitate emergency response. Each door shall have
a number starting with the main entrance as door number “1.” Subsequent doors
should be numbered sequentially in a clockwise order, to the left of the first
door and around the building. Door numbers shall be placed at the top right of
the door as you face the door. Door numbers shall be affixed on the inside and
outside of the door. Numbers on the inside of the door shall match the number
on the exterior. Numbers shall be Arabic style six-inch in height and one-half-
inch stroke, reflective material and in contrasting color to the door.
   (8)   Exit and egress stairwells doors shall be clearly identified with a
sign adjacent to the door. It shall include the following information on every
level, including basements and roof access doors.
      (a)   The signs shall be a minimum size of 18 inches by 12 inches.
      (b)   The top of the signs shall be located five feet above the floor
landing in a position that is readily visible when the doors are in the open
and closed positions.
      (c)   The number on the sign designating the floor level shall be not
less than five inches in height and located in the center of the sign.
      (d)   Other lettering and numbers on the sign shall be not less than one
inch in height.
      (e)   Information on the sign shall include:
         (i)   Floor level;
         (ii)   Terminus of the top and bottom of the exit stairway and/or
ramp;
         (iii)   The location name of the stairwell or ramp;
         (iv)   The story of the exit discharge; and
         (v)   The availability of roof access from the stairway or ramp for
the Fire Department.
      (f)   Characters and their background shall have a non-glare finish.
Characters shall contrast with their background.
      (g)   Signs shall be installed in the interior exit stairways and ramps
of buildings.
(Prior Code, § 91.62) (Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.63 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 91.64 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 91.65 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 91.66 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 91.67 RESERVED.
[Reserved]
§ 91.68 OPERATIONAL PERMITS.
   (1)   In accordance with the 2021 Edition of the International Fire Code, §§
105.5 through 105.5.52, separate operational permits are required for certain
operations or businesses that create an increased level of risk. These
operations include, but are not limited to:
      (a)   Hazardous materials;
      (b)   High piled storage;
      (c)   Amusement buildings;
      (d)   Exhibits and trade shows;
      (e)   Wood products greater than 200 cubic feet;
      (f)   Mobile food preparation vehicles;
      (g)   Battery storage (all types - high hazard class);
      (h)   Motor vehicle repair garages (car and truck);
      (i)   Temporary membrane structures and tents; and
      (j)   Tire rebuilding, storage of tires and tire by-products.
   (2)   Operational permits shall be obtained from the Village Fire Department
Fire Prevention Bureau. A special hazards inspection must be conducted before
the permit is issued. Issued permits shall be kept on the premises designated
therein at all times and shall be readily available for review by the fire
inspectors.
   (3)   Operational permits are valid for one year from the date of inspection
by a representative of the Fire Prevention Bureau and must be renewed annually.
The fee for the permit and inspection is found in §
91.69.
(Prior Code, § 91.63) (Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.69 FEES.
   (1)   Operational permits.
      (a)   Hazardous materials: $250 annually;
      (b)   High piled storage: $250 annually;
      (c)   Amusement buildings: $150 annually;
      (d)   Exhibits or trade shows: $100 per event;
      (e)   Wood products greater than 200 cubic feet: $250 annually;
      (f)   Mobile food prep vehicles: $50 per vehicle annually;
      (g)   Battery storage (all types): $250 annually;
      (h)   Vehicle repair garages (car and truck): $200 per year;
      (i)   Temporary structures and tents: $50 per event per six months; and
      (j)   Tire rebuilding, tire storage and tire by-products: $200 annually.
   (2)   Other operational permits found in the 2021 Edition of the
International Fire Code, § 105 that are not listed in the schedule above
(division (1)(a) above) shall be invoiced $100 annually or per event depending
on the permit type if one is issued.
   (3)   Fire prevention plan review, inspections and miscellaneous fees can be
found in
Chapter 43.
(Prior Code, § 91.64) (Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
**** AUTOMATIC EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATORS (AED) IN CERTAIN PUBLIC OCCUPANCIES ****
§ 91.70 AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFRIBRILLATOR (AED) DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR (AED). A medical device, heart monitor and
defibrillator that:
      (a)   Has received approval of its premarket notification, filed pursuant
to 21 U.S.C. § 360(k), from the United States Food and Drug Administration;
      (b)   Is capable of recognizing the presence or absence of ventricular
fibrillation and rapid ventricular tachycardia, and is capable of determining,
without intervention by an operator, whether defibrillation should be
performed; and
      (c)   Upon determining that defibrillation should be performed, charges
and delivers an electrical impulse at the command of the operator.
   DEFIBRILLATION. Administering an electrical impulse to an individual in
order to stop ventricular fibrillation or rapid pulseless ventricular
tachycardia.
   EXEMPTIONS. All privately-owned or operated day care facilities shall be
exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
   NATIONALLY-RECOGNIZED ORGANIZATION. A national organization approved by
state law for the purpose of training people in the use of an automatic
external defibrillator.
   PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION PROVIDER. An individual, partnership,
association, corporation, limited liability company or organized group of
persons (whether incorporated or not) that owns or occupies a building within
the jurisdiction of the village.
   REQUIRED OCCUPANCIES. Any occupancy owned or occupied within the
jurisdiction of the village and intended for either permanent or temporary
occupancy of greater than 50 persons.
   TRAINED AED PROVIDER. Any person who has successfully completed a course of
instruction that is consistent with AED manufacturer recommendations and which
complies with current American Heart Association Guidelines for CPR and ECC, or
who is licensed to practice medicine in all its branches in the state.
   VOLUNTARY AED OCCUPANCY. An individual, partnership, association,
corporation, limited company or organized group of persons (whether
incorporated or not) desiring to participate in the village public access -
defibrillator program, but not mandated by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.70) (Ord. 08-0670, passed 5-21-2008; Ord. 08-0685, passed 7-
2-2008; Ord. 09-0774, passed 8-5-2009; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 11-
0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 14-1127, passed 7-
16-2014; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.71 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE OCCUPANCIES - AUTOMATIC EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR
PLACEMENT.
   Locations.
   (1)   Public buildings. Any building which is owned or operated by the
village and is generally held open to the public shall contain not less than
one AED, to be placed pursuant to the direction of the Fire Chief or their
designee, regardless of any contrary requirements of this subchapter.
   (2)   Private occupancies. Any occupancy, as defined in this subchapter,
shall contain not less than one AED, placed in accordance with the otherwise
applicable requirements of this subchapter. The placement of an AED in any
occupancy, as herein defined, shall, at a minimum, comply with the following
enumerated requirements.
      (a)   No AED shall be placed or located within any occupancy where the
travel distance to such AED exceeds 500 feet from any other point within the
building.
      (b)   Additional AEDs shall be placed within the occupancy as needed
until the foregoing requirement is satisfied.
      (c)   Where the internal structure or use of an occupancy tends to
prohibit or prevent persons from occupying certain areas within that occupancy
(such as, but not limited to, portions of storage or distribution facilities
containing racking systems), the AED shall be placed in the area within such
occupancy that is most commonly and regularly occupied by persons.
      (d)   All AEDs shall be placed in a cabinet that is affixed to a wall
within the occupancy. The bottom of the cabinet must be at least 27 inches from
the floor, and the handle of the cabinet must be not more than 48 inches from
the floor. Each AED cabinet shall be clearly and prominently marked with
signage indicating the presence of an AED within the cabinet. Lettering on the
signs shall be not less than six inches in height and shall also include an AED
symbol approved by the Fire Chief or their designee that is visible in all
directions from the cabinet. The cabinet shall also provide reasonable
protection for the AED located within from tampering, vandalism, impact damage
and environmental factors, such as dust, moisture and weather.
      (e)   Acceptable means of tampering and vandalism protection include, but
are not limited to, the use of cabinets with local alarms, or cabinets that are
directly connected to the fire alarm system, such that the use of the cabinet
triggers a fire alarm.
      (f)   Not all occupancies will require the use of an AED cabinet when the
risk of tampering or damage to the AED unit is high. The authority having
jurisdiction (Fire Chief or their designee) shall provide direction in those
incidents.
(Prior Code, § 91.71) (Ord. 08-0670, passed 5-21-2008; Ord. 09-0774, passed 8-
5-2009; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord.
12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 14-1127, passed 7-16-2014; Ord. 17-1347, passed
3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 91.72 AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFRIBRILLATOR (AED) TRAINING, MAINTENANCE AND
REPORTING.
   (1)   Possession and operation of an automatic external defibrillator by
either a mandated or voluntary occupancy within the jurisdiction of the village
shall comply with the following.
      (a)   No person may operate an automatic external defibrillator unless
the person has successfully completed a course of instruction in accordance
with the standards of a nationally recognized organization, such as the
American Red Cross or the American Heart Association. However, this subchapter
shall not prohibit operation of an automatic external defibrillator (AED) by:
         (i)   A health care provider licensed or certified and within their
lawful scope of practice;
         (ii)   By a person acting pursuant to a lawful prescription; and
         (iii)   A person who operates the automated external defibrillator
other than as part or incidental to their employment or regular duties, who is
acting in good faith, with reasonable care and without expectation of monetary
compensation, to provide first aid that includes the operation of an automatic
external defibrillator; nor shall this subchapter limit any Good Samaritan
protections provided by state law.
   (2)   Occupancies shall maintain records of their trained AED users
sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the foregoing requirement and shall
produce the same to the Fire Chief or their designee on request.
   (3)   All AEDs required under this subchapter shall be installed with the
otherwise applicable requirements of this subchapter, the requirements of the
AED manufacturer and the otherwise applicable provisions of this code.
   (4)   Annually, Fire Department personnel shall inspect any AED during the
course of any annual fire inspection. The placement, working condition and
compliance with the other AED requirements of this subchapter shall also be
verified.
   (5)   Upon the use of any AED within any occupancy, the occupancy is
required to call the 9-1-1 emergency number immediately and following the use,
notify the Village Fire Department EMS Coordinator by telephone at 815-886-
7227.
(Prior Code, § 91.72) (Ord. 08-0670, passed 5-21-2008; Ord. 09-0774, passed 8-
5-2009; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord.
12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 14-1127, passed 7-16-2014; Ord. 17-1347, passed
3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.73 AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFRIBRILLATOR (AED) REQUIRED COMPLIANCE TIME
FRAMES.
   (1)   New occupancies shall not receive a certificate of occupancy until all
provisions of this subchapter have been satisfied following the date of
adoption by the village.
   (2)   Existing occupancies shall comply with the provisions of this
subchapter no later than two years following the date of adoption by the
village.
(Prior Code, § 91.73) (Ord. 08-0685, passed 7-2-2008; Ord. 09-0774, passed 8-5-
2009; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-
1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 14-1127, passed 7-16-2014; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-
1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.74 AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFRIBRILLATOR (AED) VARIANCES.
   Any person responsible for the compliance of a public place with this
subchapter may seek a variance by filing a written application therefor with
the Fire Chief or their designee. Variance applications shall set forth in
writing the particular facts and circumstances that support the application,
and shall specifically demonstrate the extent if any to which the application
of the requirements of §
91.72 imposes a hardship on the applicant that was not created by the
applicant, and the efforts if any made by the applicant to provide reasonable
substitutes for strict compliance. Variances shall only be available to vary
the requirements of §
91.72. If the Fire Chief or their designee determines that the applicant has
demonstrated both the existence of hardship and an effort to provide reasonable
alternatives to full compliance, the variance shall be granted, and otherwise,
it shall be denied. Variance requests shall be acted upon within 30 days from
the date of receipt by the Fire Chief or their designee, unless the applicant
consents to a longer time.
(Prior Code, § 91.74) (Ord. 08-0670, passed 5-21-2008; Ord. 09-0774, passed 8-
5-2009; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord.
12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed
12-7-2022)
§ 91.75 AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFRIBRILLATOR (AED) ENFORCEMENT.
   The fine for any mandatory occupants determined not to be in compliance with
this subchapter shall be not less than $500 nor more than $750 for the first
violation, excluding violations discovered during an annual inspection pursuant
to this subchapter. The fine for any mandatory occupants determined not to be
in compliance with this subchapter shall be not less than $1,000 nor more than
$1,500 for the second violation, excluding violations discovered during an
annual inspection pursuant to this subchapter. The fine for any mandatory
occupants determined not to be in compliance with this subchapter shall be not
less than $3,000 nor more than $5,000, where the violation is discovered during
the course of an annual inspection required pursuant to this subchapter. Each
day on which a given violation exists without being abated shall constitute the
existence of a separate and distinct violation. In addition to any other
penalties or sanctions provided for violation of this subchapter or of this
code generally, mandatory occupants subject to the provisions of this
subchapter shall not be entitled to the receipt of any permit, approval,
license or other form of permission from the village without first having
demonstrated compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.75) (Ord. 08-0670, passed 5-21-2008; Ord. 09-0774, passed 8-
5-2009; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord.
12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed
12-7-2022)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (1)   Fire Prevention Code fines.
      (a)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this code, or who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation
of the approved construction documents or directive of the fire code official,
or of a permit or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be
guilty of an ordinance violation, punishable by a fine of not less than $100,
nor more than $1,000, unless otherwise stated in this code, plus all legal fees
and all costs caused by enforcement. The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, Deputy Fire
Marshal or any fire prevention bureau officer shall retain the right to cease,
without prior warning, all activity of an occupancy if the inspector determines
violations exist that are immediately dangerous to the life and health of the
occupants.
   (2)   Fire alarm or fire protection systems.
      (a)   Fire alarm or fire protection systems that have impairments,
malfunctions or discrepancies that impact the systems operation shall be
subject to an inspection and initial notification of impairment and follow up
inspections until system is restored to normal status. The penalties for
noncompliance with this code are:
         (i)   First notification of violation: notification only, no penalty;
         (ii)   First re-inspection: $100;
         (iii)   Second re-inspection: $150;
         (iv)   Third re-inspection: $200; and
         (v)   Fourth re-inspection: $500.
   (3)   Nuisance and false alarms.
      (a)   Alarms that are received by the emergency dispatch center and sent
to the Fire Department for response and determined to be initiated by a cause
other than a fire are considered false alarms. The penalties for false alarms
are as follows:
         (i)   Any system may have up to three false alarms in a calendar year
with notification only, no penalty;
         (ii)   Any alarm system producing a fourth, fifth or sixth false alarm
within a calendar year, a penalty of $150 per false alarm shall be charged to
the subscriber;
         (iii)   Any alarm system producing a seventh, eighth or ninth false
alarm within the same calendar year shall be issued a penalty of $300 per false
alarm shall be charged to the subscriber; and
         (v)   Any alarm system producing a tenth or more false alarm within
the same calendar year shall be issued a penalty of $800 per false alarm and
considered a nuisance alarm. The owner or operator of any alarm system
considered to be a nuisance alarm shall be subject to the commencement of
ordinance enforcement proceedings before the village administrative hearing
officer or in the 12th Circuit Court of the county.
   (4)   Failure to comply.
      (a)   Stop work orders. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
to a fine of not less than $500 nor more than $1,500 per event or occurrence.
      (b)   Required annual/multi-year inspections. Any property, building or
structure that has a required fire protection system, fire alarm system or
commercial kitchen system that has been found to have discrepancies, is
delinquent or has a malfunctioning condition shall be liable to a fine of not
less than $500 nor more than $1,500 per event or occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 05-0251, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016, passed 11-7-2012; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-2022)
APPENDIX A: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
 
The exceptions to Chapter 9, Section 910.4 of the 2021 International Fire Code
contained in §
91.47 shall only be applied to buildings with a ceiling height of 24 feet or
less and use groups F-1 and S-1 protected with an Early Suppression Fast
Response (ESFR) fire sprinkler system and where the exit access travel distance
is beyond 250 feet but shall not exceed a maximum exit access travel distance
of 400 feet. All other requirements in Sections 910.1 and 910.4 of the 2021
International Fire Code shall apply.
Amendments to Sections 910.2 and 910.4 of the 2021 International Fire Code
(IFC)
Amend Section 910.2 of the 2021 IFC as follows:
Where required: By this code or otherwise installed, smoke and heat vents or a
mechanical smoke removal system shall confirm and be installed as required by
2021 International Fire Code Sections 910.2.1 and 910.2.2
Exceptions:
   1.)   Frozen food warehouses used solely for storage of Class I and II
commodities where protected by an approved automatic fire sprinkler system.
   2.)   Automatic smoke and heat removal systems shall not be required in
areas of buildings equipped with an Early Suppression Fast Response (ESFR) fire
sprinkler systems unless the building or portion thereof is classified as use
Group F-1 or S-1 and has an exit access travel distance exceeding 250 feet.
Amend Section 910.4 of the 2021 IFC as follows:
Mechanical Smoke removal systems: Mechanical smoke removal systems shall be
designed and installed in accordance with 2021 International Fire Code Sections
910.4.1 through 910.4.7
Location:
Exhaust fans shall be uniformly spaced and the maximum distance between fans
shall not exceed 100 feet.
Amend Section 910.4.3 of the 2021 IFC as follows:
Size. The mechanical smoke removal system shall be sized to exhaust the
building at a minimum rate of two complete air exchanges per hour based upon
the volume of the building or portion thereof without contents. The capacity of
each exhaust fan shall not exceed 50,000 cubic feet per minute
Amend Section 910.4.5 of the 2021 IFC as follows:
Manual control location. Manual controls shall be located at the fire sprinkler
room so as to be accessible to the fire service from an exterior door of the
building and protected against the interior fire exposure by not less than 1
hour fire barriers.
(Prior Code, Ch. 91, App. A) (Ord. 11-0935, passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 12-1016,
passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1811, passed 12-7-
2022)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Public nuisances
   
92.002   Standing water public nuisance
   
92.003   Standing water public nuisance - hazards to public sidewalks, parkways
and streets
   
92.004   Internal flooding public nuisance
   
92.005   Unlawful to suffer or maintain a nuisance
   
92.006   Notice; separate offenses
   
92.007   Lien on property for expense to abate nuisance
Health Nuisances
   
92.020   Abatement of health nuisances generally
   
92.021   Sanitary surveys; right of entry
   
92.022   Use of towels in public lavatory or washroom
   
92.023   Temporary dumpsters
Abandoned Homes and Unsafe Buildings
   
92.035   Definitions
   
92.036   Complaints
   
92.037   Building Inspector to notify corporate authorities
   
92.038   Notice to owner
   
92.039   Application to court to remove or repair buildings
   
92.040   Cost of repair or demolition
   
92.041   Securing/boarding-up of unsafe buildings and structures
Abandoned Gasoline Stations
   
92.055   Abandoned gasoline station
   
92.056   Disposal of waste and trash
   
92.057   Storage tanks
   
92.058   Building Inspector
Abandoned Refrigerators
   
92.070   Abandoned refrigerators
Internal Combustion Engines
   
92.085   Unreasonable operation prohibited
Inoperable Motor Vehicles
   
92.100   Inspection of village
Weeds and Plants
   
92.115   Weeds prohibited
   
92.116   Height of grass and weeds limited
   
92.117   Notice to abate nuisance
   
92.118   Abatement of nuisances by village
   
92.119   Liens and procedures
   
92.120   Dead, diseased, damaged or dying trees
   
92.121   Landscape waste disposal; prohibition on dumping on public rights-of-
way or property
Criminal Public Nuisance
   
92.135   Prohibition of criminal public nuisance; abatement
   
92.136   Definitions
   
92.137   Pre-abatement procedure
   
92.138   Judicial abatement procedure
   
92.139   Abatement remedy; penalty
   
92.140   Limitation on abatement procedures or remedies under this chapter
 
   
92.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 92.001 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   Any one or more of the following acts shall constitute a public nuisance:
   (A)   To permit any cellar, drain, sewer or grounds on any premises to emit
foul odors or become injurious to the public health;
   (B)   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or
noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place to the
prejudice of others;
   (C)   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter or the carcass
of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or common
sewer, street or public way or on any other premises located within the
corporate limits of the village;
   (D)   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond or lake to the injury or prejudice of others;
   (E)   To permit any weeds, grass, plants or other vegetation other than
trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding
six inches anywhere within the corporate limits of the village, as provided in
§§
92.115 through
92.119; and
   (F)   To make or maintain any uncovered opening in any sidewalk or
passageway or allow any sidewalk in front of a person’s premises to become or
continue to remain in a condition to the injury or prejudice of others.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 562, passed 9-21-1977; Ord. 04-0227, passed 2-2-
2005) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.002 STANDING WATER PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The presence of standing water from any source (including, but not
limited to, sump pump discharge) that remains for more than 72 hours after the
cessation of a rainfall event on any lot within a residential zoning district
that is improved with one or more residential dwelling units so as to cause or
reasonably threaten to cause property damage shall constitute a standing water
public nuisance. As used herein, the term PROPERTY DAMAGE shall specifically
exclude any and all damage to landscaping, planted vegetation, lawns, seeded
areas or sodded areas.
   (B)   No person shall own or occupy any property whatsoever within the
village in such a manner as to cause, create, permit or allow the creation of a
standing water public nuisance upon any lot within a residential zoning
district that is improved with one or more residential dwelling units.
   (C)   Upon the discovery and observation of a standing water public
nuisance, the village shall cause written notice of the existence thereof to
the owners and/or occupants of any and all properties that are or have been
owned or occupied in such a manner as to cause, create, permit or allow the
creation of a standing water public nuisance upon any lot within a residential
zoning district that is improved with one or more residential dwelling units.
The notice shall describe the location of the properties in question and the
conditions existing thereon that have caused the existence of the standing
water public nuisance, and shall direct the owners and/or occupants thereof to
abate the standing water public nuisance within 15 days of the date of such
notice.
   (D)   In the event that the owners or occupants of the properties in
question to whom the notice set forth above was directed shall fail or refuse
to abate the standing water public nuisance as set forth in such notice, the
village shall have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the abatement of
the standing water public nuisance by such remedial means as are necessary,
including, but not limited to, the removal of any and all obstructions located
within village drainage easements, all at the expense of the owners or
occupants of the properties in question. The costs and expenses incurred by the
village in abating any such standing water public nuisance shall be itemized in
a statement prepared by the village, and mailed to the owners or occupants of
the properties in question. Failure of such owners or occupants to pay to the
village the amount of the costs and expenses set forth in such statement within
15 days of the date thereof shall entitle the village to record a lien against
the properties in question substantially in the manner set forth in §
92.119, and to commence an action to collect the unpaid costs and expenses in
the Circuit Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit, or to foreclose said lien as
provided by law.
   (E)   In addition to any other remedies provided to the village by law or
the provisions of this chapter, upon the failure of any owner or occupant of
property to abate a standing water public nuisance in accordance with a notice
given in accordance with the provisions of this section, the village may
commence an action in the Circuit Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit to cause
such nuisance to be abated and to impose the fines and penalties provided for
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.010) (Ord. 05-0286, passed 6-15-2005) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.003 STANDING WATER PUBLIC NUISANCE - HAZARDS TO PUBLIC SIDEWALKS, PARKWAYS
AND STREETS.
   (A)   The existence of any of the following conditions constitutes a hazard
to the use of the public sidewalks, parkways and streets within the village,
and the same shall likewise be deemed to constitute a standing water public
nuisance:
      (1)   The presence of standing water on any public sidewalk, parkway or
street within the village that exists for more than 72 hours after the
cessation of a rainfall event originating from any source (including, but not
limited to, downspouts or sump pump discharges) on any lot within a residential
zoning district improved with one or more residential dwelling units;
      (2)   The presence of standing or flowing water on any public sidewalk,
parkway or street within the village on any continuous or intermittent basis
sufficient to support the growth of algae, moss or other similar plant growth
on the surface of any sidewalk or street, originating from any source
(including, but not limited to, downspouts or sump pump discharges) on any lot
within a residential zoning district improved with one or more residential
dwelling units; or
      (3)   The presence of ice of any thickness on any public sidewalk,
parkway or street within the village originating from any source (including,
but not limited to, downspouts or sump pump discharges) on any lot within a
residential zoning district improved with one or more residential dwelling
units.
   (B)   No person shall own or occupy any property whatsoever within the
village in such a manner as to cause, create, permit or allow the creation of a
standing water public nuisance as described in this section.
   (C)   Upon the discovery and observation of a standing water public nuisance
as described in this section, the village shall cause written notice of the
existence thereof to the owners and/or occupants of any and all properties that
are or have been owned or occupied in such a manner as to cause, create, permit
or allow the creation of a standing water public nuisance. The notice shall
describe the location of the properties in question and the conditions existing
thereon that have caused the existence of the standing water public nuisance,
and shall direct the owners and/or occupants thereof to abate the standing
water public nuisance within three days of the date of such notice.
   (D)   In the event that the owners or occupants of the properties in
question to whom the notice set forth above was directed shall fail or refuse
to abate the standing water public nuisance as set forth in such notice and
within the time set forth therein, the village shall have the right, but not
the obligation, to cause the abatement of the standing water public nuisance by
such remedial means as are necessary, including, but not limited to, the
removal of any and all obstructions located within village sidewalks, parkways,
streets or drainage easements, all at the expense of the owners or occupants of
the properties in question. The costs and expenses incurred by the village in
abating any such standing water public nuisance shall be itemized in a
statement prepared by the village, and mailed to the owners or occupants of the
properties in question. Failure of such owners or occupants to pay to the
village the amount of the costs and expenses set forth in such statement within
15 days of the date thereof shall entitle the village to record a lien against
the properties in question substantially in the manner set forth in §
92.119, and to commence an action to collect the unpaid costs and expenses in
the Circuit Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit, or to foreclose said lien as
provided by law.
   (E)   In addition to any other remedies provided to the village by law or
the provisions of this chapter, upon the failure of any owner or occupant of
property to abate a standing water public nuisance in accordance with a notice
given in accordance with the provisions of this section, the village may
commence an action in the Circuit Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit to cause
such nuisance to be abated and to impose the fines and penalties provided for
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.011) (Ord. 19-1565, passed 5-1-2019) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.004 INTERNAL FLOODING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS. With respect to any building, structure or portion thereof,
presenting potential hazard or risk of harm to persons or property, including,
but not limited to, hazard or risk of harm threatened by the partial or
complete collapse thereof; loose, falling or otherwise movable portions of
exterior surfaces thereof; the partial or complete collapse of parts thereof,
such as floors, porches, stairs, railings, balconies, decks or roofs, which are
accessible to persons; or the inability of the same to support the normal loads
and uses for which they were originally intended.
      OWNER. Any person or entity having a legal or equitable interest in a
vacant property, any person or entity disclosed by the records of the County
Recorder’s Office as having or holding such an interest, any person who has
entered into a contract for deed with respect to a vacant property, any
mortgagee in possession of a vacant property; any guardian, trustee, executor
or administrator of any person, estate or entity having a legal or equitable
interest in vacant property; and any person or entity possessing control of a
vacant property. For the purposes of the foregoing provision, a person or
entity shall be deemed to possess control of a vacant property if such person
or entity is party to any agreement or instrument together with any other OWNER
(including a mortgage) or has purchased or holds rights thereunder, where such
agreement or instrument authorizes or grants rights to such person or entity to
enter a vacant property, make repairs to a vacant property, abate or remedy
ordinance violations existing with respect to a vacant property, to terminate
utility service with respect to a vacant property, to secure a vacant property
or to otherwise take action with respect to a vacant property.
      SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS. With respect to a building, structure
or portion thereof rendered inaccessible to unauthorized or illegal entrants by
methods other than those contemplated in the original design and construction
of the building, structure or portion thereof.
      UNOCCUPIED. With respect to a building, structure or portion thereof,
lacking in the regular and habitual presence of natural persons lawfully
entitled to be present therein. In determining whether a building, structure or
portion thereof is UNOCCUPIED, the following factors may be considered along
with other relevant factors or evidence: whether utility service is being
provided to or used at the building, structure or portion thereof; whether any
lawful activities are being conducted therefrom; whether and to what extent the
building, structure or portion thereof contains any contents, fixtures or
personal property consistent with the intended lawful occupancy thereof;
whether and to what extent the building, structure or portion thereof has been
the subject of violations of applicable portions of the village code, and in
the event that the property has been so subject, whether and to what extent has
any response been made to any communications from the village pertaining
thereto; whether the building, structure or portion thereof is involved in a
foreclosure action; whether an accumulation of mail, newspapers, circulars,
flyers or other similar matter exists at a building, structure or portion
thereof; whether and to what extent the real estate on which the building,
structure or portion thereof is characterized by the presence of overgrown or
dead vegetation; whether a portion of a building or structure in question
demonstrates the presence or absence of any of the foregoing (or any other)
indicia of occupancy in a manner or to an extent different from the balance of
the building or structure in question; and the proportion of a building,
structure or portion thereof in question that demonstrates any of the foregoing
indicia of occupancy (or any other indicia of occupancy) as compared to the
overall area of the building, structure or portion thereof in question.
   UNSECURED. With respect to any building, structure or portion thereof, open
to entry by unauthorized or illegal entrants without the use of tools or
ladders.
   VACANT PROPERTY. Any building, structure or portion thereof that is either
unoccupied and unsecured, unoccupied and secured by other than normal means,
unoccupied and dangerous, illegally occupied, unoccupied and the subject of a
notice issued pursuant to Division 31 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS
5/11-31-1 et seq., unoccupied and the subject of pending and unabated
violations of any applicable provision of the village code, unoccupied under
circumstances that do not reasonably indicate an intention to occupy the
building, structure or portion thereof in question at any particular time, the
subject of disconnected gas and/or electric utility service, or during the
period from November 1 of any given year through April 1 of the following year,
not being kept heated to a minimum internal temperature of 60°F, as determined
by the setting of a properly functioning thermostat or like device or as
demonstrated by thermometer temperature readings, and exclusive of refrigerated
or intentionally cooled areas where the intended use thereof reasonably
requires the temperature to be maintained at a lower level.
   (B)   Any vacant property, as defined in division (A) above, that is
connected to the village water system shall be and is declared to be a public
nuisance due to the risk of internal flooding of and damage to such vacant
property, as well as the risk of damage to other adjacent or neighboring
properties.
   (C)   Prior to determining any property to be a vacant property within the
meaning of this section, the village shall first issue notice to the owner of
such property advising that the property appears to be vacant and a public
nuisance pursuant to the provisions of this section, and that the owner should
contact the village immediately with respect to such property. Such notice
shall be posted in some reasonably prominent place on such property, and
simultaneously sent by regular United States Mail to the address of the owner
of record, as determined by reference to the records of the County Treasurer,
the County Recorder, the County Clerk, the Circuit Clerk for the 12th Judicial
Circuit or any of them.
   (D)   In the event that the village receives no response or communication
from the owner within five business days (defined as Monday through Friday,
exclusive of holidays or other days on which the village is closed by law or
ordinance), the village may at any time thereafter determine that the property
in question is a vacant property and public nuisance pursuant to this section.
   (E)   At such time as the village determines that a property is a vacant
property and a public nuisance, the village may at any time thereafter abate
such nuisance and immediately disconnect such property from the public water
system of the village. Notice that the disconnection has taken place shall be
provided to the owner as set forth in division (C) above.
   (F)   Once a vacant property has been disconnected from the public water
system pursuant to this section, it shall not be reconnected until such time as
the vacant property has been inspected by the village and determined to be in
compliance with all applicable village ordinances. The applicable fee for a
reconnection shall be the same as established by ordinance for reconnection
after disconnection for nonpayment of bills for water service.
(Prior Code, § 93.015) (Ord. 09-0748, passed 2-4-2009) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.005 UNLAWFUL TO SUFFER OR MAINTAIN A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any person who allows, suffers, maintains or permits a public
nuisance, as defined herein, shall be in violation of this subchapter and on
conviction shall be subject to the penalties contained in §
92.999.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, a PERSON shall be defined as any
individual, firm, partnership, corporation or association.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 562, passed 9-21-1977) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.006 NOTICE; SEPARATE OFFENSES.
   In addition to filing a complaint, any police officer or the Building
Inspector observing any public nuisance shall issue a notice describing the
violation and direct it to the owners of record of the property on which the
nuisance occurs, as shown in the records of the Recorder of Deeds or to the
occupant of the property or to both. Any person who shall neglect to abate and
remove a nuisance subject to this subchapter after notice thereof shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each 24 hours thereafter during which the
nuisance continues.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 562, passed 9-21-1977) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.007 LIEN ON PROPERTY FOR EXPENSE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   In all cases where a nuisance shall be found in any building or on any
grounds or other premises which can be charged by assessment with the expense
of removal and the village or its authorized agents incur such expenses, the
procedures for filing a claim for lien as provided for in state statute, as
amended, shall be complied with in order to collect the sums. The collection of
the expenses shall be in addition to any fine or penalty.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 562, passed 9-21-1977) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Dutch Elm Disease, removal of trees, lien, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-12
   Garbage and debris removal, lien, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13
   Rat extermination, lien, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-8
   Weed cutting, lien, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7
**** HEALTH NUISANCES ****
§ 92.020 ABATEMENT OF HEALTH NUISANCES GENERALLY.
   Whenever the existence of any nuisance or cause of disease shall come to the
knowledge of the County Board of Health or its enforcement officer, the
enforcement officer shall first inspect the nuisance and determine the best and
most economical method by which the nuisance or cause of disease may be abated
or removed. The enforcement officer shall then serve or cause to be served a
written notice on the owner, occupant or agent of the premises or building
whereon or wherein the nuisance or cause of disease is located, giving notice
and directions for its abatement or removal in the most economical and sanitary
manner. The owner, occupant or agent shall abate or remove the cause of disease
or nuisance in the manner specified in the notice within not less than one nor
more than five days from the date of service of the notice, as the enforcement
officer shall elect. Any owner, occupant or agent refusing or neglecting to
strictly comply with the requirements or directions specified in the notice
shall be guilty of an offense, and every day the nuisance or cause of disease
shall remain or continue after the expiration of the time specified in the
notice for its removal or abatement shall be deemed and held to be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.10) (Ord. 328, passed 10-6-1971) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.021 SANITARY SURVEYS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The County Board of Health shall make or cause to be made a sanitary survey
of all buildings and premises in the village, including the drainage, sewerage
and other methods of sewage disposal and of public buildings, including school
buildings. It shall keep a record of all sanitary surveys and shall direct and
compel any sanitary changes in buildings and premises relating to ventilation,
water supply, sewage disposal, drainage or other sanitary changes consistent
with health and economy and the well-being of the public, such as each case may
demand. The Board and its authorized agents shall have the power and authority
to enter any building, premises or boat for the purpose of making a sanitary
survey and regulations, after giving due and formal notice at any time during
the daytime. Any person who shall obstruct or resist these duties of the County
Board of Health or fail to comply with the other requirements of this section
shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.11) (Ord. 328, passed 10-6-1971) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.022 USE OF TOWELS IN PUBLIC LAVATORY OR WASHROOM.
   No person, owning or in charge or in control of any public lavatory or
washroom shall maintain in or about the lavatory or washroom any towel for
common use. The term COMMON USE, as used in this section, shall be construed
for use by more than one person.
(Prior Code, § 93.12) (Ord. 328, passed 10-6-1971) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.023 TEMPORARY DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      TEMPORARY DUMPSTER. Any large container having a capacity of not more
than 40 cubic yards designed for the receiving, transporting and dumping of
waste materials on a temporary basis during demolition or construction projects
and is not intended to include carts or dumpsters used for refuse or recycling
collection as regulated in §§
58.001 through
58.010,
58.025 through
58.032 and
58.045
   (B)   Subject to division (C) below, the Community Development Director or
designee may issue a permit for placement of a temporary dumpster at an
existing single-family residence temporarily for periods of no more than 30
days during periods of construction, remodeling, demolition, special events or
other valid temporary purpose. The Community Development Director or their
designee may extend the length of time a temporary dumpster can remain on
private property to a maximum of 120 days total in 30-day permit increments
provided the dumpster is located on a property that has a valid building permit
for major construction. No more than one such permit shall be issued with
respect to a given single-family residential address during a calendar year.
   (C)   Temporary dumpsters used in connection with the construction of a new
building or renovation of an existing building within any nonresidential zoning
district may remain on the property throughout the duration of the construction
or renovation only if a valid (and non-expired) building permit has been issued
for the construction or renovation. The temporary dumpster must be removed
within 30 days once the building permit has expired, or has been closed out by
an inspection conducted by the Building Department. The applicant for any
building permit involving the use of a temporary dumpster shall be required to
inform the Building Department of the use of the same on building permit
application, and to obtain the approval of the Department of Community
Development of the location of the temporary dumpster.
   (D)   A temporary dumpster used on any property must be placed on an
impervious surface, such as an asphalt or concrete driveway or parking lot, and
must remain at least five feet from all property lines. Dumpsters, trash
containers, trailers, construction trailers or equipment used for construction
projects or used to remove debris from the site cannot be placed or parked on
or in a public street or public way.
   (E)   The property owner must take all actions necessary to prevent any
rubbish, materials or garbage to become windblown from a temporary dumpster.
Debris must be kept at a level below the top of the dumpster. If at any time
the level of debris extends over the top of the temporary dumpster, the
property owner shall empty the debris within 24 hours so that the debris
remains at a level below the top of the dumpster.
(Prior Code, § 93.13) (Ord. 17-1355, passed 3-1-2017)
**** ABANDONED HOMES AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS ****
§ 92.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED HOME OR BUILDING. Any building that is deserted or vacated and
visually manifests an attempt by the owner or tenant thereof not to return to
the premises. A home or building will be presumed to be ABANDONED if it has
been deserted or vacated for more than two months.
   UNSAFE HOME OR BUILDING. Any building which does not comply with the village
building codes or otherwise creates a danger to the health, safety and welfare
of the residents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) (Ord. 344, passed 6-21-1972)
§ 92.036 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any resident of the village may file a signed complaint with the
Village Building Inspector when the resident, on their own investigation and
inspection, believes that a home or building, within the corporate limits of
the village, is either abandoned or is in an unsafe condition. The complaint
shall be in writing and shall state with particularity their exact reasons why
they believe that the premises is abandoned or in an unsafe condition.
   (B)   When the Village Building Inspector receives a written complaint from
a resident of the village, they shall, within 15 days, inspect the premises to
determine if the premises violates applicable building codes or creates a
danger to the health, safety or welfare of the residents of the village. If the
Village Building Inspector believes the premises violates village ordinances or
otherwise creates a danger to the health, safety or welfare to the residents of
the village, they shall notify in writing the corporate authorities of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) (Ord. 344, passed 6-21-1972) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.037 BUILDING INSPECTOR TO NOTIFY CORPORATE AUTHORITIES.
   The Village Building Inspector may notify the corporate authorities in
writing on investigation of any home he believes to be abandoned or in an
unsafe condition. They shall state with particularity why they believe the
premises to be abandoned or unsafe.
(Prior Code, § 93.22) (Ord. 344, passed 6-21-1972) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.038 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The Board of Trustees shall instruct the Village Building Inspector to send
by mail to the owner of record a written notice informing the owner of the
violation of the building code or the unsafe condition of the premises. The
notice shall describe the premises and state with particularity the unsafe
conditions. The record owner shall have 15 days within which to correct the
conditions on the premises or to state the reasons why the home is abandoned or
why the conditions cannot be repaired. Where, on diligent search, the identity
or whereabouts of the owner or owners of any home or building, including the
lien holders of record, are not ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or
persons in whose name the real estate was last assessed is sufficient.
(Prior Code, § 93.23) (Ord. 344, passed 6-21-1972) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.039 APPLICATION TO COURT TO REMOVE OR REPAIR BUILDINGS.
   If the owners of record refuse or fail to act on the notice by correcting
the unsafe condition on the premises, the Board of Trustees shall apply to the
Circuit Court of the county for an order authorizing them to demolish or repair
dangerous and unsafe buildings or uncompleted and abandoned buildings within
the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 93.24) (Ord. 344, passed 6-21-1972) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.040 COST OF REPAIR OR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to state statute, the village may recover from the
owner or owners of record the cost of any demolition or repair incurred. The
cost shall be a lien on the premises and shall be superior to all prior
existing liens or encumbrances except taxes; provided that the village shall,
within 60 days after the repair or demolition, file notice of lien of the costs
and expenses in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
      (2)   The notice of lien must consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for the
identification thereof;
         (b)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred;
and
         (c)   The date or dates when the cost and expense was incurred.
   (B)   On payment by the owner or owners of record, the village shall release
the lien.
(Prior Code, § 93.25) (Ord. 344, passed 6-21-1972)
Statutory reference:
   Unsafe buildings, demolition or repair, lien, see 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1
§ 92.041 SECURING/BOARDING-UP OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of a building shall maintain all doors and
windows therein with glass or such other glazing materials as are permitted by
the village building code.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of a building shall enclose, nor permit the
enclosure, of any door or window by enclosing or covering any door or window
with plywood, masonite, particle board or other similar lumber product (so-
called boarding up).
   (C)   Boarding-up or effective securing of premises shall be in the form of
a wire mesh, securely attached to the framework of either the doors or windows
so as to restrict or prohibit access to the premises. This method shall be done
in a way to create an appearance of occupancy to the premises and reduce
neighborhood blight.
      (1)   Wire mesh shall not be less than 23 gauge with one-fourth inch
holes.
      (2)   Wire mesh shall be installed as one continuous piece.
   (D)   These provisions contained herein shall apply to any buildings and/or
structures, which was previously boarded-up on the effective date of these
amendments. It shall further be required within 45 days from the date of
adoption of these regulations for each building and/or structure to conform
with the installation of the wire mesh.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit:
      (1)   The boarding-up of buildings damaged by fire, tornado or other
catastrophe for a period not to exceed eight weeks; provided, however, the
period of such permitted board-up may be extended by the Building Inspector;
      (2)   The boarding-up of the doors and windows of a new building, by the
builder thereof, until such time as construction is complete and the building
is ready for occupancy; and
      (3)   The Chief of Police, Fire Chief, Building Inspector and/or Code
Enforcement Officials shall cause a building to be boarded up when it is
otherwise authorized by law or ordinance for such official to do so, or when
the public health, safety and welfare are endangered by the condition of any
such building.
(Prior Code, § 93.26) (Ord. 2422-96, passed 5-15-1996)
**** ABANDONED GASOLINE STATIONS ****
§ 92.055 ABANDONED GASOLINE STATION.
   Every owner or lessee of an automobile or truck gasoline service station who
has either abandoned or left the station in an inoperative condition for a
period of 60 days shall be required at their expense to secure the building by
boarding it up with a material approved by the Village Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 93.30) (Ord. 363, passed 6-20-1973) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.056 DISPOSAL OF WASTE AND TRASH.
   Every owner or lessee of an abandoned gasoline service station shall dispose
of all waste and trash, whether inflammable or nonflammable, in suitable
receptacles so as not to create a danger to the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 93.31) (Ord. 363, passed 6-20-1973) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.057 STORAGE TANKS.
   Every owner or lessee of an abandoned gasoline service station shall drain
all tanks or other containers that hold or store inflammable liquids within 14
days after the station has been vacated.
(Prior Code, § 93.32) (Ord. 363, passed 6-20-1973) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.058 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Village Building Inspector shall notify by registered mail, the owner or
lessee prior to filing complaint against the person that their building has
been abandoned for a period exceeding 60 days and is in violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.33) (Ord. 363, passed 6-20-1973)
**** ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS ****
§ 92.070 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation who abandons or discards in any
place accessible to children any refrigerator, ice box or ice chest of one and
one-half cubic feet capacity or more having an attached lid or door which may
be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch, or who being the
owner, lessee or manager of such place knowingly permits an abandoned or
discarded refrigerator, ice box or ice chest to remain there shall be subject
to penalty under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.40) (Ord. 381, passed 11-7-1973) Penalty, see §
92.999
**** INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES ****
§ 92.085 UNREASONABLE OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No internal combustion engine may be operated by any person, firm,
partnership or corporation outside of any residential dwelling unit located
within the corporate limits of the village for either an unreasonable length of
time or at an unreasonable hour of the day or night.
   (B)   UNREASONABLENESS shall be defined as a period of operation of an
internal combustion engine exceeding one-half hour in length. This subchapter
shall not be avoided by the act of shutting off the internal combustion engine
within the confines of a one-half-hour period and the restarting of the engine
within another one-half-hour period during the same six-hour period of any day.
(Prior Code, § 93.45) (Ord. 442, passed 1-15-1975) Penalty, see §
92.999
**** INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES ****
§ 92.100 INSPECTION OF VILLAGE.
   Any police officer or enforcement official of the village shall periodically
inspect the village to determine if any inoperable or abandoned motor vehicle
exists on either private or public property within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 93.50) (Ord. 445, passed 2-19-1975; Ord. 1021-87, passed 11-24-
1987; Ord. 2032-89, passed 10-18-1989; Ord. 0009-03, passed 2-19-2003)
Cross-reference:
   Motor vehicle towing, see
Chapter 78
**** WEEDS AND PLANTS ****
§ 92.115 WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other
weeds, plants or rank vegetation of like kind, growing in any lot or tract of
land within the village are declared a nuisance. It is unlawful for any owner
or occupant to permit such weeds, plants or vegetation to grow or remain upon
their lot owned or occupied by them or upon the public parkway immediately
adjacent to said lot.
(Prior Code, § 93.60) (Ord. 264, passed 9-18-1968; Ord. 04-0227, passed 2-2-
2005) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.116 HEIGHT OF GRASS AND WEEDS LIMITED.
   It is unlawful for any owner or occupant to permit any weeds, grass, plants
or vegetation of any kind (excluding trees, shrubs or intentionally cultivated
and maintained flower, vegetable or ornamental gardens) to grow to a height
exceeding six inches upon any lot owned or occupied by them or upon the public
parkway immediately adjacent to said lot. Any such weeds, grasses or other
vegetation in excess of such height are declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.61) (Ord. 264, passed 9-18-1968; Ord. 0043-02, passed 6-19-
2002; Ord. 04-0227, passed 2-2-2005) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.117 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   The Code Enforcement Department shall issue a notice to the owner, occupant
or other person responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of any parcel of
property on which any condition violating §§
92.115 or
92.116 is found to exist, which notices shall demand the abatement of the
violations in question within five days from the date of the notice. Such a
notice shall be in writing, shall describe the violation in question and shall
be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested or served personally on the
intended recipient.
(Prior Code, § 93.62) (Ord. 264, passed 9-18-1968; Ord. 0043-02, passed 6-19-
2002)
§ 92.118 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES BY VILLAGE.
   If any nuisance or violation of §§
92.115 or
92.116 described in any notice issued and served in accordance with §
92.117 is not abated within the time set forth in such notice, the village,
through its Code Enforcement Department, shall abate the nuisance or violation
in question by destroying, cutting or otherwise removing the same. Thereafter,
the village, through its Code Enforcement Department, shall secure a lien
against the parcel of property where the nuisance or violation in question was
located by serving and filing appropriate notices of lien in accordance with
the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7.
(Prior Code, § 93.63) (Ord. 264, passed 9-18-1968; Ord. 0043-02, passed 6-19-
2002)
§ 92.119 LIENS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Costs and expenses for the abatement of nuisances under this
subchapter shall be a lien on the premises. If the owner or occupant fails to
pay the costs and expenses incurred within ten days of service, the Village
Clerk shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds, a statement of lien claim.
      (2)   The statement shall be filed within 60 days after the costs and
expenses are incurred and shall contain the following:
         (a)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
         (b)   The costs and expenses incurred or payable for abating the
nuisance;
         (c)   The dates the costs and expenses were incurred; and
         (d)   A notice that the village claims a lien for the costs.
   (B)   Notice of the lien claim shall be served by certified mail to the
owner of the premises at their last known address. However, failure of the
Village Clerk to record the notice of lien claim or to mail the notice, or the
failure of the owner to receive the notice, shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for the costs.
   (C)   On payment of the costs and expenses incurred or payable under this
subchapter, after notice of lien has been filed with the Recorder of Deeds, the
lien shall be released by the village and the release may be filed of record as
in the case of filing notice of lien.
   (D)   Property subject to a lien for costs and expenses incurred in abating
the nuisance shall be sold for nonpayment of the lien, and the proceeds of the
sale shall be applied to pay the amount of the lien after deducting costs, as
in the case of foreclosure of statutory liens. The foreclosure shall be in
equity in the name of the village. The Village Attorney is authorized and
directed to institute the foreclosure procedures, in the name of the village,
against any property for which the costs and expenses remain unpaid.
(Prior Code, § 93.64) (Ord. 264, passed 9-18-1968)
§ 92.120 DEAD, DISEASED, DAMAGED OR DYING TREES.
   The existence of any dead, diseased, damaged or dying tree in such a
location and in such a condition that creates a hazard or danger to the safety
and health of persons and property shall be and is declared to be a nuisance,
and the village shall have the right to cause the removal and abatement of the
same in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, §§
92.117 and
92.118.
(Prior Code, § 93.65) (Ord. 0033-03, passed 4-16-2003)
§ 92.121 LANDSCAPE WASTE DISPOSAL; PROHIBITION ON DUMPING ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-
WAY OR PROPERTY.
   It is declared to be unlawful and to constitute a public nuisance for any
person or entity whatsoever to cause, allow or permit the dumping, depositing
or placement of any and all forms of landscape waste upon any public rights-of-
way or other public property. As used herein, LANDSCAPE WASTE shall mean and
include, without limitation, grass clippings, compost, leaves, branches, stems,
dirt, stones, rocks, uprooted plants, weeds or vegetation of any kind, all or
any parts of any trees, shrubs, bushes, plants or other vegetation resulting
from the pruning, clipping, trimming or removal thereof, mulch, bark, stumps or
wood chips, together with any and all other vegetation, plant matter or other
material generated from landscaping or landscape maintenance activities.
(Prior Code, § 93.66) (Ord. 04-0141, passed 4-21-2004)
**** CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE ****
§ 92.135 PROHIBITION OF CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   No person shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently permit
any property within the corporate limits of the village to become, exist as or
be used as a criminal public nuisance, and any criminal public nuisance found
to exist within the village shall be subject to abatement in accordance with
the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.70) (Ord. 2690-99, passed 9-1-1999)
§ 92.136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any real property within the corporate limits of
the village, together with the buildings, structures, fixtures or improvements
located thereon, at, in or on which any three or more of the criminal offenses
set forth below have occurred within any given one-year period, as determined
by authorized sworn personnel of the Village Police Department or by any
authorized members of other law enforcement agencies lawfully exercising
jurisdiction within the village, shall constitute a CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE.
The criminal offenses which may be considered in determining whether or not a
CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE exists shall be as follows:
      (1)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 9 (Homicide) of the
Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq.;
      (2)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 10 (Kidnaping and
Related Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/10-1 et seq.;
      (3)   Any offense defined and prohibited by § 11-14 (Prostitution), § 11-
14.1 (Soliciting of a Sexual Act), § 11-14.3 (Promoting prostitution), § 11-20
(Obscenity), § 11-20.1 (Child Pornography) or § 11-21 (Harmful Material to
Minors) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/11-14 through 5/11-14.3, 5/11-
20, 5/11-20.1 and 5/11-21;
      (4)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 12 (Bodily Harm) of
the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/12-1 et seq.;
      (5)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 16 (Theft and Related
Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/16-1 et seq.;
      (6)   Any offense defined and prohibited by § 20-2 (Possession of
Explosives or Incendiary Devices) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/20-
2 et seq.;
      (7)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 24 (Deadly Weapons)
of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq., together with any
violation of § 137.08;
      (8)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 25 (Mob Action) of
the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/25-1 et seq.;
      (9)   Any offense defined and prohibited by § 26-1 (Disorderly Conduct)
of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/26-1.
      (10)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 28 (Gambling) of the
Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq.;
      (11)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 31 (Interference
with Public Officers) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/31-1 et seq.;
      (12)   Any offense defined and prohibited by § 6-16 (Prohibited Sales and
Possession) or § 6-20 (Purchase or Acceptance of Gift of Liquor by Persons
Under Age 21) of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/6-16 and 5/6-20;
      (13)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.;
      (14)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Cannabis Control Act,
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.;
      (15)   Any inchoate offense defined and prohibited by Article 8 (Inchoate
Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/8-1 et seq., which is
relative to the commission of any of the aforesaid principal offenses; and
      (16)   Any offense defined and prohibited by §
134.03.
   OCCUPANT. Any person in actual or constructive possession of any real
property within the corporate limits of the village, or any of the buildings,
structures, fixtures or improvements located thereon.
   OWNER. Any person having any legal or equitable interest whatsoever in any
real property within the corporate limits of the village, together with the
buildings, structures, fixtures or improvements located thereon, or who, by any
means whatsoever, has the ability, authority or right to regulate, restrain,
control, direct or affect the conduct of persons present on any such property.
   PERMIT. To allow, approve, consent to, acquiesce in, agree to, suffer or
failure to prevent through inaction.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, corporation, firm, partnership, limited
liability company, unincorporated association or any other group, enterprise or
entity capable of owning, using or occupying property.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, together with any buildings, structures,
improvements or fixtures located thereon or affixed thereto.
(Prior Code, § 93.71) (Ord. 2690-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 10-0879, passed 10-
6-2010)
§ 92.137 PRE-ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of the Village Police Department shall receive two
or more police reports generated in the ordinary course of the business of the
Department, or any reports from sworn personnel of any other law enforcement
agency lawfully exercising jurisdiction in the village, which reports describe
the commission of any acts or conduct within the same one year period at, in or
on the same property which could constitute any two or more of the offenses set
forth in the definition of criminal public nuisance at §
92.136, the Chief shall review said reports and determine whether or not the
such acts or conduct in fact constitute any of said offenses.
   (B)   In the event that the Chief determines that said reports in fact
describe the commission of acts or conduct which constitute any two or more of
said offenses, the Chief may take the following action.
      (1)   Notify by registered mail, return receipt requested or by personal
service, the owners and the occupants of the property in question that said
property may be in danger of becoming a criminal public nuisance under the
provisions of this chapter, which notice shall identify the property in
question by either street address, PIN number or legal description, describe
the acts or conduct which have occurred on the property that could serve as
part of the basis for determining that the property constitutes a criminal
public nuisance, and request that the owners and occupants contact the Chief
within 14 days of the date of the letter to discuss potential courses of action
which will prevent and deter the property in question from becoming a criminal
public nuisance.
      (2)   After complying with the notification procedure set forth in
division (A) above, if the Chief of Police receives an additional police report
describing the commission of acts or conduct within the same one year period as
the acts or conduct with respect to which a notification was issued in
accordance with this section, which acts or conduct were committed at the same
property described in said notice and which could constitute the commission of
one or more of the offenses set forth in the definition of criminal public
nuisance in §
92.136, then the Chief shall review such report and determine whether or not
such acts or conduct in fact constitute one or more of the said offenses, and
in the event that the Chief determines that such acts or conduct do constitute
one or more of the said offenses, then the Chief shall, by registered mail,
return receipt requested, or by personal service, and in addition to either of
the foregoing, by posting on the property itself, provide the owners and
occupants of the property in question with a second notice, which notice shall
inform the owners and occupants that the property in question has become and is
in fact a criminal public nuisance under this chapter, describe all of the acts
and conduct forming the basis for the determination that the property in
question is a criminal public nuisance and request that the owners and
occupants of the property contact the Chief within 14 days of the date of the
notice to determine and implement a course of action which will result in the
abatement of the property as a criminal public nuisance.
      (3)   Proof that the notices required under this chapter were sent or
given in the manner required hereunder shall be deemed proof that the owners or
occupants of the property to which the notices related received such notices.
(Prior Code, § 93.72) (Ord. 2690-99, passed 9-1-1999)
§ 92.138 JUDICIAL ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In the event that a course of conduct agreed to by the Chief of Police and
the owners and occupants of the property to which a notice has been directed
pursuant to §
92.137(B)(2) has not been implemented within 30 days of the date of said notice
to voluntarily abate the criminal public nuisance in question, then the Chief
of Police shall so notify the Village Attorney to initiate judicial proceedings
in the Circuit Court of the 12th Judicial Circuit of the county, to abate the
criminal public nuisance and to seek the penalties and remedies provided with
respect thereto by the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.73) (Ord. 2690-99, passed 9-1-1999)
§ 92.139 ABATEMENT REMEDY; PENALTY.
   In the event that the village establishes, in any judicial action instituted
in accordance with §
92.138, that a property within the corporate limits of the village constitutes
a criminal public nuisance, the court shall, in addition to any other powers
granted by the provisions of the village code or applicable law, have the power
to enter an order restraining the owners and occupants from using the property
for any purpose for a period of up to one year, which order shall further
provide that the owners and occupants shall have the right to use the property
during the period of time specified in the order if any of them shall post a
bond or other security payable to the village and approved by the court in an
amount between $1,000 and $5,000, which bond or security shall be forfeited and
paid over to the village by the obligor thereof in the event that any offense
set forth above at §
92.136 in the definition of criminal public nuisance is committed upon such
property within the period of time set forth in the court order. Any person who
is an owner or occupant of any property determined in any such judicial action
to constitute a criminal public nuisance who intentionally, knowingly,
recklessly or negligently permitted such property to become, be used as or
exist as a criminal public nuisance shall be liable to a fine of not less than
$100 nor more than $750 per day for each day on which such property was used as
or existed as a criminal public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.74) (Ord. 2690-99, passed 9-1-1999)
§ 92.140 LIMITATION ON ABATEMENT PROCEDURES OR REMEDIES UNDER THIS CHAPTER.
   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter or this code to the contrary, no
enforcement action, abatement procedure or other remedy under this chapter
shall be taken, pursued or implemented by the village to the extent that the
same violates the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.5(b).
(Prior Code, § 93.75) (Ord. 16-1259, passed 3-2-2016)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Purpose and scope
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Construction of chapter
   
93.04   Protection and use of Department property
   
93.05   Personal conduct and behavior within or upon Department property
   
93.06   Motor vehicles
   
93.07   Department property use by permit - general use permit
   
93.08   Violations, enforcement and suspension/revocation of permits and
privileges
§ 93.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to and govern the use of all
property and facilities owned by the village that are from time to time held
out for or opened to active or passive use by the public for park or
recreational purposes. A list of such properties and facilities shall be
established by the Department of Parks and Recreation, and shall be
incorporated by reference into this chapter as Appendix A thereto, and the
Department of Parks and Recreation shall be authorized to update said Appendix
A from time to time as necessary and without further action of the corporate
authorities of the village. However, the use for which the property or facility
in question shall be held out or made available shall ultimately determine the
applicability of this chapter to the property or facility in question
notwithstanding the absence of the same from the list in Appendix A to this
chapter, attached to Ord. 21-1693.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 21-1693, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. Any representative contracted to the village or its Department of
Parks and Recreation acting within the scope of their authority, such as
caterers, outside vendor and the like.
   AIRCRAFT. Any device that is used or intended to be used for human flight in
the air.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Defined as provided in the Illinois Liquor Control Act of
1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-3.05) as amended hereafter.
   AQUATIC LIFE. All fish, reptiles, amphibians, crayfish, mussels, mollusks
and crustaceans.
   AREA. A specific or designated location within any Department property.
   BARBEQUE GRILL. A fabricated metal or other container and grill, grate or
other cooking surface designed for the combustion of any form of fuel to permit
the cooking of food.
   BOARD. The corporate authorities of the village.
   CAMP or CAMPING. Include the erecting of a tent or shelter of natural or
synthetic material; preparing a sleeping bag, hammock or other bedding material
for use; setting up any temporary or permanent camping equipment, including,
without limitation, food preparation equipment; parking of a motor vehicle,
motor home or trailer; or mooring of a vessel, for the apparent purpose of
overnight occupancy; and/or in connection therewith, the use of Department
property for living accommodation purposes, such as sleeping activities, or
making preparations for sleeping activities, or storing personal property, or
making preparations to store personal property, or making a fire or using a
device to provide heat other than as may be permitted as part of a Department
event or activity.
   CANNABIS. Defined as provided in the Illinois Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS
550/3(a)), as amended hereafter.
   CARRY. To wear, bear or have on or about the person.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Defined as provided in the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/102(f), 204, 206, 208, 210 and 212), as amended
hereafter.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of the Village Police Department or such persons
charged with or delegated such authority by the Chief of Police.
   DAWN. Sunrise, as determined with reference to the United States Naval
Observatory Astronomical Applications Department website.
   DEPARTMENT. The Village Department of Parks and Recreation.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department, or such persons designated by this
chapter to carry out actions as designated or directed by the Director and
acting under authority from the Director.
   DEPARTMENT PROPERTY. All of the property, real and personal, and all
facilities of every kind and description located within the jurisdiction of, or
owned, administered, leased or licensed by the village and administered or
operated by the Department, or otherwise in the possession or under the control
or administration of the Department, including, without limitation, every
building, shelter, street, sidewalk, trail, path, beach, park, wilderness or
open space or other public place or facility and all Department waters located
on or adjacent to or flowing over property located within the jurisdiction of,
or owned, administered, leased or licensed by, the village and administered or
operated by the Department, or otherwise in the possession or under the control
of the Department from time to time held out for or opened to active or passive
use by the public for park or recreational purposes. A list of such properties
and facilities shall be established by the Department, and shall be
incorporated by reference into this chapter as Appendix A thereto, and the
Department shall be authorized to update said Appendix A from time to time as
necessary and without further action of the corporate authorities of the
village. However, the use for which the property or facility in question shall
be held out or made available shall ultimately determine the applicability of
this chapter to the property or facility in question notwithstanding the
absence of the same from the list in Appendix A to this chapter, attached to
Ord. 21-1693.
   DEPARTMENT WATERS. Include all water located on or adjacent to or flowing
over land owned, leased or generally administered or operated by the village
through the Department, including, without limitation, all natural or human-
made lakes, rivers, creeks, streams, ponds, lagoons, bays and drainage ways.
   DRONES. Any remotely operated and unpiloted aircraft system that is capable
of sustained flight or suspension in the atmosphere including remotely operated
and unpiloted aircraft commonly referred to as model airplanes, small remotely
operated and unpiloted aircraft or aerial systems, aerial hover craft and any
other remotely piloted or remotely operated and unpiloted aircraft of any kind.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. Defined as provided by the Illinois Drug Paraphernalia
Control Act (720 ILCS 600/2d), as amended hereafter.
   DUSK. One hour after sunset, as determined with reference to the United
States Naval Observatory Astronomical Applications Department website.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person on the payroll of the village and Department, employed
to perform tasks as assigned by the Director in accordance with the village
code and applicable village and Department policies.
   FACILITY. Any department property other than a building and includes,
without limitation, parks, playgrounds, open space, paths, trails, pavilions,
shelters, swimming pools, golf courses, tennis courts and basketball courts.
   FIREPLACE. A permanent structure of stone or masonry designed for an open
fire, embers or ashes.
   FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS. Without limitation, the exercise of any rights
protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, including,
but not limited to, parades, demonstrations, marches, rallies, picketing,
leafleting, advocacy, speaking events, religious services or political
activities.
   FISH or FISHING. Taking or attempting to take aquatic life in or from any
department waters by any method, and all other acts such as placing, setting,
drawing or using any device commonly used for the taking of aquatic life
whether resulting in such taking or not.
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates, drives, controls, otherwise has charge of
or is in actual physical control of a mechanical mode of transportation or any
other mechanical equipment.
   ORDINANCE. This chapter, except as otherwise expressly stated.
   POLICE. Include any sworn officer of the Village Police Department.
   PERMIT. The written authorization issued by or under the authority of the
Department, by a Department officer or employee empowered to grant said
authorization, in accordance with this chapter or as otherwise permitted by the
village code, to a person to engage in a particular act or acts on Department
property. Said authorization is subject to the terms and conditions specified
in the permit, license or contract as well as all applicable federal, state,
village and Department laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   PERSON. Every natural person and every organization, firm, partnership,
association, corporation or entity of any kind or any employee, agent or
officer thereof. This definition shall not include the Department and any
authorized officer, employee (full- or part-time, regular or short-term) or
agent of the Department when acting within the scope of their authority.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Exercising direct physical control or dominion, with
or without ownership, over any kind of property, or archeological, cultural or
natural resource.
   REFUSE. Includes, without limitation, trash, garbage, rubbish, waste,
papers, bottles or cans, debris, litter, oil, solvents, liquid waste or other
discarded material whether solid or liquid or otherwise.
   SERVICES. Includes, but not limited to, labor, professional services,
transportation, leasing or renting any article, object, privilege or service,
giving of instructions or lessons, admission to exhibits, use of telephone or
other utilities or any act for which payment is customarily received.
   SMOKING. The lighting of cigarettes, cigars or pipes and the use of
electronic vapor devices and also includes the carrying of lighted cigarettes,
cigars or pipes, or the intentional and direct inhalation and exhalation of
smoke or vapor from these objects.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person immediately in charge of a given department and
its activities and to whom all employees of such department are directly
responsible (e.g., Superintendent of Recreation and Superintendent of Parks).
   TAKE or TAKING. To pursue, hunt, harass, lure, harm, shoot, trap or ensnare,
gig or spear, net, capture, collect, kill, destroy, wound or attempt to do any
of the above.
   VEHICLE. Any device, conveyance or combination of conveyances, wheeled or
without wheels, self-propelled or unpropelled or towed in, around or on which a
person or thing is or may be carried, including, but not limited to, bicycles,
scooters, skateboards, segways, mini-bikes, motorcycles, snowmobiles, baby
strollers, sleds, all-terrain vehicles, trucks and automobiles excepting those
devices assisting mobility for disabled persons in accordance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and
vehicles or equipment of the village or the Department.
   VESSEL. Every type or description of watercraft or object used or capable of
being used as a means of conveyance or transportation on water, including,
without limitation, boats, rafts, canoes, inner tubes, air mattresses, kayaks,
jet skis, inflated devices, logs, branches or any other buoyant object
permitting or capable of free flotation. VESSEL does not include personal
floatation devices or equipment required for safety such as life vests.
   WILDLIFE. Include any waterfowl, mammal, animal, amphibian, reptile or bird
or the young or eggs thereof, but excluding any domesticated dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 21-1693, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 93.03 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   In the interpretation of this chapter, its provisions shall be
construed as follows.
      (1)   Where the context permits, words in the masculine gender shall
include the feminine and neuter genders and words in the singular number shall
include the plural number.
      (2)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      (3)   The word “may” is always permissive and upon the discretion of the
Department.
      (4)   This chapter is in addition to and supplemental to all applicable
state, federal, local and village laws, ordinances, rules and regulations
including without the provisions of the village code in addition to this
chapter thereof.
      (5)   The meaning of any term, phrase or word not otherwise defined in
this chapter shall be construed and interpreted to mean the same as said term,
phrase or word is otherwise defined, construed or interpreted in such
applicable federal, state, village or department laws, ordinances, rules or
regulations.
      (6)   The meaning of any term, phrase or word not otherwise defined in
this chapter or in such applicable federal, state, village or Department laws,
ordinances, rules or regulations shall retain its ordinary and properly
understood meaning.
      (7)   The descriptive headings of the various sections or parts of this
chapter are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or
construction, nor be used in the interpretation, of any provision of this
chapter.
      (8)   An attempt to commit an act or engage in an activity prohibited
under this chapter shall likewise be deemed prohibited in the same manner as
the commission of such act or the engaging in such activity and subject to the
same penalties.
      (9)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this chapter shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent of the
Department is fully carried out.
   (B)   No provision of this chapter shall make unlawful any act necessarily
performed by any officer, employee or agent of the Department or the village
when acting within the scope of their authority or in their line of duty, or
any other person summoned by thereby to assist them.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 21-1693, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 93.04 PROTECTION AND USE OF DEPARTMENT PROPERTY.
   (A)   Public use hours. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the
terms of any applicable permit issued by the village or the Department, or in
connection with a Department administered special event, Department property or
facilities located outdoors shall be open to the public from sunrise in the
morning until dusk in the evening of that same day and outdoor Department
property shall be closed to the public from dusk each day until sunrise the
following day; provided, however, that outdoor Department property or
facilities with outdoor lighting intended to facilitate nighttime use thereof
shall remain open until ten minutes after the lighting therefor has been turned
off, or reduced to a level below the level required for conducting activities
upon or using such property or facilities. The Department shall determine the
hour at which outdoor lighting shall be turned off or reduced in intensity. The
Department may periodically revise these hours to meet the needs for public use
of Department property. Department property consisting of buildings or indoor
facilities will be open at hours established by the Director. The Department
may close one or more Department parks, properties, buildings or facilities or
any area thereof to the public at any time and for any interval of time, either
temporarily or at regular intervals, and either entirely or merely to certain
uses, as deemed advisable and in the best interest of the public and the
Department.
   (B)   Prohibition of outside plants and the like. No person shall bring into
or plant or cultivate upon Department property any tree, shrub or plant, or
portion thereof, except by written authorization of the Department, or in
connection with any Department sponsored program or activity (e.g., Community
Garden).
   (C)   Camping. No person shall place, erect or use any hammock, swing, tent,
sleeping shelter or any other type of temporary or permanent camping equipment
or otherwise camp in any manner, on Department property. The foregoing shall
not prohibit the use of temporary canopies or shelters used for protection from
sun or inclement weather for the benefit of spectators or participants in
programs or events conducted by the Department, or for the use of tents for
camping in programs otherwise authorized or approved by the Department, nor
shall it prohibit the use of tents or canopies not more than ten feet by ten
feet in size in connection with the use by rental or permit of a specific
designated area of Department property.
   (D)   Trespass to Department property. Except as otherwise allowed by this
chapter or the village code, no person shall:
      (1)   Enter or remain in any of Department property or area thereof where
persons are prohibited by the Department from entering by sign or other notice,
including written notice delivered to an individual person and also including
areas thereof the use of which is restricted to persons of the opposite gender
except as otherwise specifically provided in these sections;
      (2)   Enter or remain in any Department property at any time when it is
closed to the public;
      (3)   Climb, walk or sit upon any sign, wall, tree or fence under the
control of the Department;
      (4)   Enter or remain upon any lawn, grass plot, planted area, tree,
shrub, monument, fountain, sculpture or structure where access is prohibited by
signs or other notice or where access is restricted by fence or other physical
barrier;
      (5)   Enter any Department property that is reserved or scheduled for a
specific group or activity, unless such person is invited by the individual or
group responsible for such activity or unless such person is a registered and
authorized participant or member thereof and has paid any applicable admission
and/or registration fees due and owing to the Department; or
      (6)   Enter or remain upon any Department property, in any case where the
village or the Department has revoked, terminated, forfeited or suspended the
privileges of such person to use, enter or remain upon Department property or
any area thereof as provided for in this chapter.
   (E)   Damage to Department property. Except as otherwise allowed by this
chapter or the village code, no person shall, while in or upon Department
property:
      (1)   Deface, disfigure, break, cut, tamper with or displace or remove in
or from any Department property or building or other part thereof, any table,
bench, fireplace, coping, lamp post, fence, wall, signage, paving or paving
material, water line or other public utility or parts or appurtenances thereof,
or place or attach any sign, notice or placard whether temporary or permanent
on any equipment, facilities or other Department property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal;
      (2)   Destroy, cut, break, injure, disturb, sever from the ground or
remove any sod, soil, earth, rock, stone, timber, wood, material or growing
thing, including, but not limited to, any plant, flower, flower bed, shrub,
tree, growth or any branch, stem, fruit or leaf thereof; bring into or have in
their possession in or on Department property any tool or instrument intended
to be used for the cutting thereof, or any garden or agricultural implements or
tools which could be used for the removal thereof, other than in connection
with a Department authorized program or activity (e.g., community garden);
      (3)   Set fire to any trees, shrubs, plants, flowers, grass, plant growth
or living timber, or allow any fire upon land to extend into Department
property;
      (4)   Cut, break or in any way injure, deface, destroy or alter any
building, fence, monument, sculpture, bridge or other structure or property
contained therein;
      (5)   Operate or drive any motor car, automobile or vehicle of any kind
in or on Department property in places other than roadways or in such a manner
as to cause the same to collide with, run against, strike or cause to strike,
injure, deface or damage any Department property or appurtenance of any kind;
      (6)   Fasten any animal or attach any rope, sign, handbill or other
things to any tree or shrub or to any protective device around any tree or
shrub growing in or on the Department property;
      (7)   Allow any animal under the person’s ownership or temporary care to
injure or deface any tree, plant, shrub, lawn or landscaped area in any manner
whatsoever. An animal is under a person’s temporary care if the animal was
brought upon Department property by the person or by a minor under the person’s
temporary or permanent care;
      (8)   Fasten any bicycle, motorcycle, moped or other vehicle to or leave
the same standing so as to injure any tree, shrub, lawn or landscaped area;
      (9)   Deface, destroy, cover or otherwise make unreadable any traffic
warning or prohibitory sign or symbol in or on Department property;
      (10)   Mark, carve, bend, cut, paint, deface, breakdown, destroy, damage,
alter, change, sever, uproot, excavate or otherwise remove, or attach or
suspend any rope, wire or other material or contrivance to or from any
Department property; or
      (11)   Depositing, leaving, placing or causing any garbage, refuse,
litter or other unwanted or discarded matter to remain on any Department
property excluding the placement of the same into appropriate receptacles
provided by the Department for the collection of the same. In the event that
any such receptacles provided by the Department for the collection of garbage,
refuse or other discarded matter shall be incapable of receiving further
deposits thereof, all persons possessing the same or having generated the same
during their use of Department property shall be required to remove the same
from the Department property for proper and otherwise lawful disposal. No
person shall bring to any Department property any garbage, refuse or other
discarded matter not generated upon Department property in connection with the
lawful use thereof.
   (F)   Use of restrooms and locker rooms. All use of restrooms and locker
rooms provided or made available by the Department shall be used in accordance
with the following regulations:
      (1)   Every person shall cooperate in maintaining restrooms, washrooms
and locker rooms in a neat and sanitary condition;
      (2)   No person shall deposit objects of any kind other than toilet paper
in the toilets or plumbing fixtures of a restroom, washroom facility or locker
room;
      (3)   No person shall use any camera, video recorder or other device to
record or transmit visual image(s) in or from any restroom, washroom or locker
room of the Department;
      (4)   Urinate or defecate upon any Department property other than in
permanent or temporary toilet facilities provided by the Department for such
purposes; and
      (5)   No person shall use any electronic, mechanical, manual, electric,
digital, voltaic or other device, instrument or means capable of recording,
producing, duplicating, reproducing, storing, copying, transmitting or
displaying any visual, video, photographic, electronic, digital, recorded or
other visual image, picture or representation, including, but not limited to,
any camera, camcorder or videotaping device, or any cell phone of any type or
kind regardless of its capacity or lack thereof to produce a visual image, in
any restroom, locker room, lavatory, bathroom, shower facility or dressing
room, in any building owned, leased to or under the control of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 21-1693, passed 4-7-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 PERSONAL CONDUCT AND BEHAVIOR WITHIN OR UPON DEPARTMENT PROPERTY.
   All persons present upon Department property as permitted users thereof, as
participants in programs or activities organized or coordinated by the
Department or otherwise present thereon shall at all times adhere to the
regulations on personal conduct and behavior within or upon Department property
as hereinafter set forth in this section. All such persons shall at all times
also comply with the provisions of any site-specific regulations posted by the
Director on any particular Department property or portion thereof, and upon
such posting, all such site-specific regulations shall be enforceable by the
village and the Department in the same manner and to the same extent as the
provisions of this chapter set forth herein.
   (A)   Disorderly conduct. No person shall knowingly, within or upon
Department property:
      (1)   Engage in behavior or speech that disrupts, alarms, disturbs,
intimidates or unreasonably interferes with others in the use of Department
property and provokes a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Make or cause to be made any excessively loud or unreasonable noise
which disturbs the peace. For purposes of this division (A)(2), NOISE shall be
deemed to be excessively loud or unreasonable when it exceeds 60 dBA at a
distance of 75 feet from the source; provided, however, that the foregoing
shall not preclude proof that a noise is excessively loud or unreasonable and
disturbs the peace by other means. This section shall not apply to the playing
of any musical instrument, public speaking or the amplification thereof, in
conjunction with activities conducted, sponsored or authorized by the
Department. A permit to exceed the noise limitations in this division will be
granted for activities consistent with, or attendant to, appropriate and
customary park and recreational activities that are reasonable for the location
and time of day or night, or in connection with Department programs for which
the issuance of such a permit is appropriate under the circumstances;
      (3)   Shall use obscene or abusive language or gestures, or threatens
violence or injury to the person or property of others, in a manner intended
and likely to incite or produce an immediate breach of the peace or violent or
disorderly response;
      (4)   Shall congregate with other persons on Department property with the
intent to restrict vehicular or pedestrian traffic or with the intent to
restrict the free ingress to or egress from Department property and fail to
comply with a lawful order of the Police Department to disperse issued in
response to acts likely to cause substantial harm, or under circumstances where
it is reasonable to believe that the order is necessary to allow the Police
Department to address a situation that threatens the public health, safety or
welfare;
      (5)   Engage in any hazardous recreational activity, sport, game or
amusement that constitutes a hazardous recreational activity which creates
substantial risk of injury to a participant or a spectator, including, but not
limited to, those defined in 745 ILCS 10/3-109 et seq. An activity that may not
be a hazardous recreational activity as enumerated in the above statute may
become so due to the location of the activity or the proximity to those not
participating;
      (6)   Commit any other act which may be defined as disorderly conduct
under the Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/26-1, 5/26-2, 5/26-3 or 5/26-4 or
under §
134.01; or
      (7)   Commit any act in violation of
Chapter 133.
   (B)   Animals and pets.
      (1)   No person shall bring or release onto Department property any
wildlife, including, without limitation, any animal, the capture or killing of
which is authorized by the fish and game laws of the state, or any other
animal, except for domesticated dogs or cats subject to the restrictions
contained in this section; provided, however, that the Department may bring or
release, or permit another person to bring or release, such proscribed animals
onto Department property in conjunction with an activity or event conducted or
sponsored or permitted by the Department.
      (2)   No person shall feed any wildlife on Department property.
      (3)   No owner or agent of the owner having control of any domesticated
dog, cat or any other domesticated animal shall cause or permit such animal to
be on Department property unless the pet is on a leash which shall not exceed
ten feet in length and such person has in their immediate possession a device
for removal, and a depository for the transportation, of animal excrement from
such property.
      (4)   All owners or agents of the owner having control of any
domesticated dog, cat or other domesticated animal shall remove any excrement
from Department property left by such animal.
      (5)   No person shall bring a domesticated dog, cat or any other animal
onto or permit any animal to remain on any portion of Department property where
the presence of animals is prohibited, except:
         (a)   In conjunction with an activity or event conducted or sponsored
by the Department; and
         (b)   Dogs or other domesticated animals specially trained to assist
the visually impaired or other persons with disabilities, when they are
accompanying the persons with disabilities for purposes of providing such
assistance.
      (6)   Any animal found on Department property in violation of divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(5) above may be apprehended; removed to an animal shelter, public
pound or other place provided for that purpose; and disposed of pursuant to
applicable laws and ordinances. The owner or person responsible for such animal
shall be responsible for all costs and expenses incurred or encumbered in the
removal and housing of such animal and such charge shall be in addition to and
not in lieu of any other penalties provided for in this chapter and any other
applicable federal, state, local or Department laws, ordinances, rules or
regulations.
      (7)   No person shall allow an animal, under their control, to chase,
harass, wound or kill any domesticated or wild animal.
   (C)   Aircraft and drones; remote control vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall fly, cause to be flown or permit or authorize the
flying of aircraft of any kind at any time over Department property at an
elevation lower than the minimum safety requirements established by the Federal
Aviation Administration or other governmental authority, at an elevation which
is lower than is reasonably safe under the circumstances, or in a manner which
endangers the safety of any person on Department property.
      (2)   No person shall parachute or make an ascent or descent in an
aircraft into or onto Department property or cause, permit or authorize another
person to parachute or otherwise ascend/descend from an aircraft into or onto
Department property unless a permit therefor has first been obtained from the
Department in accordance with this chapter, except when necessitated by
unavoidable emergency.
      (3)   No person shall, upon or in connection with any property of the
Department, start, fly or use any fuel-powered, battery-powered or electric-
powered model or toy or any radio controlled model car, vehicle, aircraft, boat
or rocket or any like controlled or powered toy or model or drone unless the
Department has designated such areas for such activities, issued a permit for
such activities or designated the use of specific Department property for the
conduct of a Department activity or program involving any of the foregoing. The
Director may grant, upon due application no less than 30 days in advance, a
permit for use of like toys or models or drones subject to FAA Part 101, 14
C.F.R. §§ 101.1 et seq., for special events, instruction classes or other
functions on a case-by-case basis.
      (4)   No person shall operate, launch, take off, land, cause to launch,
take off or land or authorize the operation, take off, launching or landing of
any drones subject to FAA Part 107, being 14 C.F.R. §§ 107.1 et seq., of any
kind from or on Department property without a permit, nor any drones subject to
FAA Part 101 except in designated areas or pursuant to a permit, and in no
case:
         (a)   In violation of the Federal Aviation Administration rules,
regulations and safety guidelines governing such flight;
         (b)   Over or within 50 horizontal feet of the property line of the
following facilities: playground, tennis court, aquatic facility, golf course
or skate park;
         (c)   Directly over any person, group of people or occupied space;
         (d)   For the purpose of conducting surveillance (which is defined as
the gathering of images, sounds, data or other information in a manner that
intrudes upon the solitude, privacy or seclusion of a person or their private
affairs or concerns) unless expressly permitted by law;
         (e)   That is equipped with a firearm or other weapon or with the
intent to use the drone or anything attached to the drone to cause harm to
persons or property;
         (f)   Whenever weather conditions would impair the operator’s ability
to do so safely; or
         (g)   In a reckless or careless manner.
      (5)   The provisions of this division (C) shall not apply to any aircraft
or drones operated by the village or by any other government agency.
   (D)   Alcoholic liquor.
      (1)   No person, other than the Department or its agent, shall sell or
deliver any alcoholic liquor on Department property, unless said person has
first obtained a permit, license or contract therefor from the Department or
from the village.
      (2)   No person shall distribute to, provide to or allow any person under
21 years old to possess or consume alcoholic liquor on Department property. No
person under the age of 21 years old shall possess or consume alcoholic liquor
on Department property.
      (3)   No person shall bring into, possess, consume, take, use or transfer
any alcoholic liquor on Department property unless they are in or on Department
property where the possession, consumption, use or transfer of alcoholic liquor
is permitted by this code, and then only in compliance with the requirements of
the village code (including all license and permit requirements), or unless the
alcoholic liquor is legally possessed in an unopened container stored in the
trunk of a motor vehicle. The Department may, at its discretion, from time to
time designate by placement of appropriate signage that the possession,
consumption or use of alcoholic liquor may be permitted on specific Department
property in connection with special events conducted, organized or sponsored by
the Department, and nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the authority of
the village to adopt appropriate licensing and permitting ordinance to provide
for the manner in which alcoholic liquor may be possessed, sold, consumed or
used on Department property.
      (4)   Every person possessing, using, consuming or transferring alcoholic
liquor pursuant to this section shall be subject to and shall comply with the
Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., and all other state, local
and Department laws, ordinances, rules and regulations regarding the
possession, use, consumption or transfer of alcoholic liquor.
   (E)   Bicycles, roller blades, roller skates, skateboards and scooters. No
person shall upon or in connection with any Department property:
      (1)   Ride a bicycle, roller blade, roller skate, scooter or skateboard
on any path, trail, roadway, athletic field, spectator area, public areas or
other area designated and posted by the Department as prohibiting bicycles,
roller blades, roller skates, scooters or any relevant combinations of the
above. Bicycles, roller blades, roller skates, scooters and skateboards shall
only be used on designated bike trails;
      (2)   Carry another person on the handlebars, frame and fender or so ride
a bicycle except on a suitable seat attached thereto for such a purpose or
operate a bicycle in a reckless manner to endanger pedestrians, the rider or
riders thereon;
      (3)   Park or leave unattended bicycle, skateboard or scooter so to
impede, travel upon or block any pedestrian or vehicular traffic or access way
in any park;
      (4)   Fail to ride a bicycle on the right-hand side of any road, trail or
path as conditions shall permit;
      (5)   Ride a bicycle on any path or trail more than two abreast or on any
parking lot, roadway or road used by the public for regular motor vehicle
access in any other manner than single file;
      (6)   Operate a bicycle, roller blade, roller skate, scooter, skateboard
or other non-motorized vehicle in a way that would endanger the operator or any
other person present on any Department property;
      (7)   No person shall be permitted to roller skate, skateboard or roller
blade in or on any facility that is posted as prohibiting roller skating or
rollerblading;
      (8)   No person shall cling or attach themself or their bicycle to any
other moving vehicle, or attach themself to any other moving vehicle while
skateboarding, roller skating, rollerblading or riding a scooter;
      (9)   No person shall operate a bicycle on Department property between 30
minutes after sunset and 30 minutes before sunrise, without a clear, white,
properly lighted headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from
the front thereof for not less than 500 feet and firmly attached to the
bicycle, or without a red reflector firmly attached to the bicycle, which is
clearly visible in the headlight beam of an automobile for a distance of 500
feet to the rear of the bicycle. Nothing herein shall be deemed to authorize
bicycling or other use of Department property during any hours or times when
the same shall otherwise be closed to public use;
      (10)   No person shall operate a bicycle, roller skate, roller blade,
scooter or skateboard faster than is reasonable and proper, and each of the
same shall be operated with reasonable regard for the safety of the rider and
of other persons and property;
      (11)   Nothing in this division (E) shall be deemed to apply in any way
to the use of any assistive mobility device used by any person with a
disability on any Department property; and
      (12)   As used in this chapter, BICYCLE shall mean every device propelled
by human power upon which any person may ride, having one wheel, two tandem
wheels or three or more wheels, except scooters, roller skates, skateboards and
similar devices, and in addition thereto shall also include any Class 1
electric bicycle, as defined by the Illinois Vehicle Code, when operated by any
person age 16 or over.
   (F)   Fires and grills.
      (1)   No person shall light, maintain or make use of any fire on
Department property, except within charcoal grills supplied by the Department
upon Department property, and then only to the extent necessary to ignite the
charcoal for use in connection with the burning of the charcoal to permit
ordinary cooking use thereof in such grills.
      (2)   No person shall throw or otherwise discard lighted or smoldering
material in any trash receptacle or otherwise in any manner that threatens or
causes damage to, or results in the burning of, Department property or
resources, or creates a safety hazard.
      (3)   No person shall use any grill on Department property other than the
charcoal grills supplied by the Department on Department property, or a propane
grill temporarily present upon Department property pursuant to a permit issued
by the Department to use a designated area or portion of Department property
which shall be removed after the conclusion of the activities for which the
permit was issued.
      (4)   The provisions of this division (F) shall not apply to the
Department and authorized participants in connection with any activity or
special event organized and sponsored by the Department.
   (G)   Fireworks and pyrotechnics. No person shall possess, use, sell or
exchange any form of fireworks or pyrotechnics of any kind or description on
Department property, including, but not limited to, any fireworks or
pyrotechnics defined or regulated by the provisions of Chapter 91, as well as
any other devices or items referenced in said Chapter 91 but not proscribed or
prohibited by Chapter 91; provided, however, that the village and the
Department shall be exempt from the provisions hereof in connection with the
presentation of fireworks or pyrotechnics displays in connection with special
events or observances within the village, including, but not necessarily
limited to, Independence Day, Romeofest and other similar or comparable events
or occasions.
   (H)   Metal detectors. No person shall bring into or use any device or
instrument used to detect metallic objects upon Department property other than
in connection with utility location requests in accordance with applicable law.
   (I)   Interference with activities or other users. No person shall walk, act
or conduct themself upon any Department property designated for a particular
game, sport, event, amusement or other use in such a way as to unreasonably
interfere with the use of such portion by other persons who are properly using
the same for the particular game, sport, event, amusement or other use for
which it has been designated, nor shall any person engage in any otherwise
permitted activity or use of Department property in a reckless manner that
endangers or injures any persons or property in any way. In addition, no person
shall unreasonably disturb or interfere with any person occupying an area or
participating in any activity on Department property under the authority of any
permit issued by the village or the Department in connection therewith, or
pursuant to a valid reservation of an area of Department property approved by
the Department.
   (J)   Winter sports/activities.
      (1)   No person shall skate, sled, toboggan, inner tube, ski, snowboard,
slide or engage in similar activities on Department property except at such
places and at such times as the Department may designate for such purposes, nor
engage in any such activities at such places, that are closed due to inadequate
snow covering or other environmental conditions, or when notified of such
conditions by any village or Department employee authorized to control such
activities. No person shall otherwise enter upon any frozen Department waters
to skate, slide or walk for any purpose.
      (2)   No person shall skate, sled, toboggan, inner tube, ski, snowboard,
slide or engage in similar activities on Department property, contrary to
winter sports/activities rules and regulations, as published and posted by the
Department on Department property for control of such activities.
      (3)   No person shall engage in any such activity in a reckless manner
that endangers that person or others, or at a speed greater than is safe and
proper under the circumstances.
      (4)   No person shall tow, push, pull or otherwise propel another person
on skis, sled or other sliding device by use of any vehicle on Department
property.
      (5)   No person shall bring onto any frozen Department waters, any race
boat or wind-driven-like device or other vehicle.
      (6)   No person shall operate, drive, ride, park or sit upon while
stationary a snowmobile on Department property. For purposes of this division
(J), a SNOWMOBILE shall be defined as any self-propelled vehicle intended for
travel primarily on snow, driven by a track or tracks in contact with the snow
and steered by ski or skis in contact with the snow.
   (K)   Swimming and boating.
      (1)   No person shall at any time swim, wade or bathe in any Department
waters or in any pond, lake, creek, stream, river or other body of water
whether natural or artificial upon any Department property.
      (2)   No person shall at any time operate, possess or use any vessel on
any Department waters or on any pond, lake, creek, stream, river or other body
of water whether natural or artificial upon any Department property.
      (3)   The foregoing provisions of this division (K) shall not apply to
any activities of the village or other governmental agency acting within the
scope of their jurisdiction or authority.
   (L)   Team sports. No person shall upon or in connection with any Department
property play or engage in any team sport or game, such as, but not limited to,
baseball, football, soccer, volleyball, horseshoes or softball, except in those
areas of Department property designated for use as athletic fields, and only in
such a manner as to not interfere with other persons using said athletic areas,
and under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Director.
   (M)   Golf. No person shall upon or in connection with any Department
property possess, swing or make use of any golf club to hit golf balls within
or into any Department property in such a manner as to put those persons who
are occupying any park at risk of injury.
   (N)   Fishing. Fishing shall be prohibited on all Department waters where so
indicated by posted signage authorized by the Department. Where not prohibited,
fishing shall be conducted in accordance with all applicable laws and
regulations of the state, and any violation thereof shall likewise be deemed to
be a violation of this chapter.
   (O)   Hunting and trapping; wildlife protection.
      (1)   No person shall hunt nor trap any wildlife, nor bring any device
for hunting or trapping wildlife into or onto Department property or Department
waters. The preceding sentence shall not apply to persons or firms retained by
the village or Department for the control and removal of nuisance wildlife from
Department property, nor to any law enforcement officer or Animal Control
Officer of the village when acting to enforce the provisions of Chapter 90 or
otherwise in an official capacity.
      (2)   No person while in or upon any Department property or Department
waters shall pursue, hurt, molest, catch, injure, kill, poison, tease, torment,
abuse, chase, touch, throw objects at or endanger in any way any wildlife, nor
shall any person while in or upon any Department property or Department waters
disturb, touch, damage, tamper with or in any way harm any nest, lair, den,
burrow or other dwelling place of any wildlife. The preceding sentence shall
not apply to persons or firms retained by the village or Department for the
control and removal of nuisance wildlife from Department property, nor to any
law enforcement officer or Animal Control Officer of the village when acting to
enforce the provisions of Chapter 90 or otherwise in an official capacity.
   (P)   Picnics. Picnics shall be permitted only at the Nancy Aldridge
Pavilion at Village Park, and at the Pete Capone Pavilion at O’Hara Woods/
Conservation Park, on a first come, first served basis, subject to the prior
reservation of such facilities through the Department. Reservations for these
facilities are likewise available on a first come, first served basis. Use of
such facilities shall be subject to this chapter.
   (Q)   Commercial photography.
      (1)   Photography (including both the taking of still pictures and the
taking of movies or motion pictures, regardless of the specific technology used
in connection therewith) by commercial photographers is allowed on Department
property without a permit under the following conditions:
         (a)   That the photography and associated activity do not, regardless
of duration, unreasonably interfere with usage by other persons;
         (b)   In addition, no one location within a park may be used by the
photographer for more than 15 minutes for any of the photographic activities;
and
         (c)   In addition, no one park may be used by the photographer for
more than an aggregate total of 60 minutes on any single calendar day for any
of the photographic activities.
      (2)   Photographers desiring to engage in commercial photography on
Department property other than in accordance with the foregoing conditions may
apply for a general use permit pursuant to division (S) below.
   (R)   Commercial use of Department property for sale, exhibition,
distribution or provision of goods and services. No person shall, without a
general use permit issued pursuant to division (S) below and a license
agreement with the village, enter upon or use Department property for any sale,
exhibition, distribution or provision of goods or services for any type of
consideration, including, but not limited to, the conduct of classes or any
form of instruction in any activity or discipline. Any license agreement shall
be in such form as the Department may from time to time require, and the form
thereof may vary for different specific facilities or properties of the
Department. Current forms of license agreements for the use of Department
property are provided in Appendix A to this chapter, attached to Ord. 21-1693.
A license agreement may contain appropriate language referring to the issuance
of the required general use permit in lieu of the separate issuance of such
general use permit. No license agreement shall be available for any activity
reasonably determined by the Department to be in competition with Department
programs, activities or events, or which would interfere with the conduct of
Department programs, activities or events; without otherwise limiting the
generality of the foregoing, food or beverage vending or service shall be
deemed to be in competition with Department programs and activities at any time
when any Department operated or licensed food vending facility is in operation
in the particular area of the Department property in question. No person
permitted to use Department property pursuant to any such license agreement
shall in any way interfere with or obstruct other persons in their lawful use
of Department property, or interfere with or hinder the conduct of programs and
activities authorized, sponsored or conducted by the Department.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the foregoing provisions of
this division (R) shall not apply to authorized participants in any activity,
program or special event authorized, sponsored or conducted by the village or
the Department.
   (S)   General use of Department property.
      (1)   Department property shall, in the first instance, be available for
programs, activities and events undertaken by, organized by, sponsored by or
otherwise under the auspices of the village or the Department. Subject to the
foregoing, Department property shall otherwise be generally available for
public recreational and athletic use not inconsistent with the nature and
characteristics of the particular area or portion of Department property and
its intended purposes. The following listed uses of Department property, by
virtue of their nature or the number of participants involved in such uses, are
inconsistent with the general availability of Department property for public
recreational and athletic use, and require a general use permit, where the same
are not conducted by the village or the Department, or in connection with any
program, activity or event undertaken by, organized by, sponsored by or
otherwise under the auspices of the Department:
         (a)   A public assembly, parade, demonstration, political activity,
picnic or other event involving the exercise of First Amendment rights
involving more than 30 individuals;
         (b)   Any exhibit, music or dramatic performance, fair, circus,
concert, play, church service, radio or television broadcast, other than a news
transmission;
         (c)   Exhibit or display of any motion picture, television program,
light or laser light display or similar event;
         (d)   Operation of any vehicle, except upon a publicly dedicated
street, alley, designated vehicle parking area or driveway or other
thoroughfare which may abut or traverse Department property;
         (e)   Creation or emission of amplified sound, except from a radio,
sound recorder or other device possessed and used by an individual for their
own enjoyment and operated in such a manner as not to interfere with the use
and enjoyment of Department property by another person;
         (f)   Station or use any electrical or electronic device or equipment
that would require outdoor auxiliary power;
         (g)   Conduct of any class, play class, day camp, individual or group
lesson or instruction or similar activity;
         (h)   Conduct an organized sporting event or league;
         (i)   Exhibition or display on Department property a tame, non-
domestic supervised and controlled animal for limited noncommercial or
promotional purposes;
         (j)   Operation or use of any form of powered or motorized ride or
amusement device; and
         (k)   Commercial use of Department property as contemplated by
division (R) above.
      (2)   Department property general use permits may be applied for, and
shall be processed and approved in accordance with the provisions of §
93.07. Where a license agreement is also required for the use of Department
property, the general use permit may be approved or issued by appropriate
reference in any such license agreement.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the application for or approval of any general use
permit under this chapter, all use of Department property pursuant to any
general use permit shall be subject to all otherwise applicable ordinances of
the village, including this chapter, including, but not limited to, those
provisions thereof that require any other permit or agreement for the conduct
of the activity in question.
      (4)   The provisions of this division (S) shall not apply to the use of
Department property by the village, the Department, including uses for
activities or events sponsored, administered or organized by the village or the
Department, or other governmental agencies acting within their lawful
authority.
   (T)   Tobacco products use. Any use of tobacco products shall be prohibited
within all buildings located on Department property, and within all vehicles
owned or operated by the Department. In accordance with the Smoke Free Illinois
Act, 410 ILCS 82/1 et seq., smoking as defined in such Act shall be prohibited
within any buildings or indoor spaces on Department property and within any
area located within 15 feet from entrances, exits, openable windows and
ventilation intakes to prevent the entrance of tobacco smoke through the same.
Smoking and the use of tobacco products shall otherwise be prohibited on all
Department property with the exception of designated vehicle parking area and
adjacent streets or roads where parking is permitted, and any specified areas
of Department property designated as smoking or tobacco use areas, where
otherwise in compliance with the Smoke Free Illinois Act. TOBACCO PRODUCTS
shall mean and include all forms of tobacco, whether designed or intended to be
smoked, chewed or otherwise consumed and all alternative nicotine products.
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS means any product or device not consisting of or
containing leaf tobacco that provides for or facilitates the ingestion into the
body of nicotine by any means, including, but not limited to, the inhalation of
any vapors or gases containing nicotine, but excluding any product approved by
the United States Food and Drug Administration as a tobacco cessation product,
tobacco dependency product or medical treatment and marketed exclusively
therefor.
   (U)   Reporting accidents. Any person involved in any accident or incident
of any kind resulting in or involving any personal injury or damage to any
property shall report the same to the Director within 24 hours after the
accident or incident in question, except as otherwise required under this
chapter or the village code or applicable law. Without otherwise limiting the
generality of the foregoing, Department employees shall additionally report the
same to their immediate supervisor.
   (V)   Age-designated equipment. Where signage posted at or in the vicinity
of any Department park or playground indicates that any playground or other
recreational equipment located therein is designated and intended for use only
by persons within a certain age range, no person not within the designated age
range shall use any playground or recreational equipment so designated;
provided, however, that nothing herein shall restrict or limit supervision by
any parent or guardian of any person within the designated age range while
using such playground or other recreational equipment.
   (W)   Public health or disaster emergency; governmental directives. In the
event that the state shall become subject to a gubernatorial disaster
declaration related to public health, public disaster or other lawful cause,
and is further subject to the provisions of one or more other executive orders,
declarations, proclamations, regulations, rules or laws pertaining thereto
(collectively, the foregoing shall herein be referred to as the “governmental
directives”) which have been issued by the Governor of the state or other
governmental authorities (including, but not limited to, the village) that
affect, impact or regulate the use of Department property or facilities, and
which may conflict with the otherwise applicable provisions of this chapter,
the village reserves all rights to take all actions required to implement,
comply with and enforce the provisions of the governmental directives as may be
required from time to time, notwithstanding any conflict between the
governmental directives and the otherwise applicable provisions of this
chapter, and further advises the public that the implementation of, compliance
with and enforcement of the governmental directives may have the effect of
limiting, restricting, terminating or prohibited otherwise permitted or
permissible uses of Department property or facilities. Without otherwise
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the village reserves the right to
terminate or suspend any general use permits, license agreements, use
agreements, other approvals, programs, activities or events at all or any
Department property or facilities as may be required by the governmental
directives, or to modify or amend the same as it deems necessary to comply
with, implement or enforce the governmental directives. All public use of the
Department’s property and facilities shall at all times comply with the
governmental directives. The preceding provisions shall apply in like measure
to any other public state of emergency for which a gubernatorial disaster
declaration applicable to the village shall be issued.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 21-1693, passed 4-7-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All-terrain vehicles and the like. No person shall, in or upon any
Department property, operate any all-terrain vehicle, golf cart, off-highway
motorcycle or go-kart. The provisions of this division (A) shall be
inapplicable to the use of any of the foregoing when used by the village or the
Department.
   (B)   Motor vehicle operation locations. No motor vehicles shall be operated
on Department property except upon areas thereof surfaced with asphalt,
concrete or comparable hard surfaced pavement contained within an area of
Department property designed, designated, intended and held out for motor
vehicle operation, including roads, streets, parking areas and driveways, to
the exclusion of all hard surfaced areas not so designed, designated, intended
or held out, including, but not limited to, recreational trails. The provisions
of this division (B) shall not apply to any village or Department motor vehicle
operation, or to any operation or parking of a motor vehicle as directed by a
village or Department employee.
   (C)   Motor vehicle operator responsibility in event of accident. No
operator of any motor vehicle involved in any accident involving such motor
vehicle resulting in any damage to property or injury to persons shall leave
the scene of the same without first providing their name and residence address
to any injured person or affected party and the Village Police Department.
   (D)   Emergency vehicles.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, emergency vehicles shall include all
ambulances, fire trucks, police, fire and other vehicles used to protect and
promote the public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (D) regulating the movement or
parking of vehicles on Department property shall not apply to the operator of
any emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call or pursuing an
actual or suspected violator of the law.
      (3)   Every person operating a vehicle on Department property shall, at
the immediate approach of an emergency vehicle making use of its warning system
signals, yield the right-of-way and shall stop, if possible, and pull to the
side of the road and remain in such position until the emergency vehicle has
passed, unless otherwise directed by a member of the Village Police Department.
   (E)   Obedience to traffic controls. No person shall fail to comply with any
posted traffic-control device or sign on Department property, or fail to comply
with the order or direction of any village or Department employee directing
traffic or the movement or location of motor vehicles on Department property.
   (F)   Application of state statues and village ordinances. No person shall
operate any motor vehicle upon Department property in any manner that would
violate the provisions of Chapters 6, 11 or 12 of the Illinois Vehicle Code,
being 625 ILCS 5/6, 5/11 or 5/12, respectively, which provisions are
specifically incorporated into this chapter, or the provisions of Chapters 71,
72, 73 or 74; provided, however, that in establishing a violation of any of
such provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code or the indicated chapters of the
village code, it shall be sufficient in connection therewith to allege and
prove that a motor vehicle was operated upon Department property, in lieu of
alleging and proving that the motor vehicle was operated upon any public
highway or road.
   (G)   Minibike and trailbike operation. No person shall operate any two-
wheeled vehicles powered by internal combustion engines on Department property,
except that motorcycles otherwise lawful to be operated on highways or public
streets within the state may be operated in the areas designated by this
section for motor vehicle operation.
   (H)   Motor vehicle parking.
      (1)   No person shall park a vehicle on Department property in other than
areas improved and established for vehicle parking or in areas otherwise
designated by the Department for parking, and all parking shall be in
accordance with the posted directions and markings or with the directions of
any village or Department employee who may be present.
      (2)   (a)   No person shall park any vehicle or allow any vehicle to
remain parked in any area of Department property beyond the normal closing hour
of the park system, except when a different closing hour has been designated by
the Department for that area or unless permission therefor has first been
obtained from the Department. In no event shall any vehicle, except Department
vehicles, be parked on Department property after the hour of 12:00 a.m. and
prior to the hour at which the Department in question opens to the public
pursuant to this chapter.
         (b)   Except as otherwise authorized in connection with the conduct of
village or Department programming or events, no person shall at any time park
any recreational vehicle on any roadway, street, parking lot or area located on
property administered by the Department or on any other property administered
by the Department, nor shall any person occupy any recreational vehicle or any
other vehicle on any roadway, street, parking lot or area located on property
administered by the Department or on any other property administered by the
Department for purposes of residing, living, sleeping, camping or habitation,
or connect any such vehicle to any utility facilities on any property
administered by the Department, including, but not limited to, water, sewer or
electric facilities. As used herein, a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall mean and
include those vehicles set forth in 625 ILCS 5/1-169, as amended from time to
time.
      (3)   No person shall stop, park or place any vehicle on Department
property so as to obstruct or interfere with traffic or travel or endanger the
public safety, and no person shall stop, park or place any vehicle in any of
the following places except when otherwise designated, or when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or when in compliance with the instructions
of a member of the Village Police Department:
         (a)   On the left side of any roadway;
         (b)   On parkways, lawn areas and grounds;
         (c)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (d)   Within any intersection;
         (e)   Within any crosswalk;
         (f)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
         (g)   Within 30 feet of any stop sign or traffic control signal, other
than in a marked parking space;
         (h)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of the roadway (“double parking”);
         (i)   In a position to block another vehicle lawfully parked;
         (j)   On any sidewalk;
         (k)   At any place where official signs or other markings prohibit
parking, or where curbs have been painted yellow;
         (l)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (m)   In a fire lane or within eight feet of the entrance to a fire
lane;
         (n)   At any place or time where a permit or sticker is required by
the Department for parking unless the required permit or sticker has been
obtained and is displayed on the vehicle; or
         (o)   At any marked parking space not entirely within the designated
lines.
      (4)   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway or driveway or in
any public off-street parking facility on Department property for any of the
following purposes:
         (a)   To display such vehicle for sale;
         (b)   To perform maintenance or repair of such vehicle, except for
repairs necessitated by an emergency; or
         (c)   To sell goods or services from such vehicle.
      (5)   The operator of an authorized emergency vehicle, as defined in §
93.02, may park or stand irrespective of the provisions of this section.
      (6)   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law
and who leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a
violation of this section involving such vehicle, shall, upon request, provide
the Department with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee
at the time of such offense and the identifying number upon the registration
plates and registration sticker or stickers of such vehicle.
      (7)   No person who is the lessor of a vehicle pursuant to a written
lease agreement shall be liable for the violation of any parking or standing
regulation of this section involving such vehicle during the period of the
lease provided that upon the Department’s request received within 120 days
after the violation occurred, the lessor provides within 60 days after such
receipt the name and address of the lessee.
      (8)   Except as otherwise provided, every vehicle stopped or parked upon
a two-way roadway on Department property shall be stopped or parked with the
right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as
close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
      (9)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under their control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
      (10)   Except as otherwise provided, every vehicle stopped or parked upon
a one-way roadway on Department property shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder, or with
its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
      (11)   Enforcement provisions for parking violations include the
following.
         (a)   Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any
division of this section prohibiting or restricting vehicular standing or
parking, the person in whose name the vehicle is registered with the Secretary
of State shall be prima facie responsible for the violation and subject to the
penalty therefor.
         (b)   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of any parking
provision of this section, any Village Police Department officer observing such
violation may issue a parking violation notice, and serve the notice on the
owner of the vehicle by handing it to the operator of the vehicle, if they are
present, or by affixing it to the vehicle in a conspicuous place. The issuer of
the notice shall specify on the notice their identification number; the
particular parking regulation allegedly violated; the make and state
registration number of the cited vehicle; and the place, date, time and nature
of the alleged violation.
         (c)   A parking violation notice issued and served in accordance with
this section, or a copy of such notice, shall be deemed prima facie correct and
shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown therein.
The notice or copy thereof shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative
or legal proceeding.
   (I)   Riding outside vehicles. No person shall ride upon the fenders, hood,
running board, trunk, bumpers, truck bed or any other exterior portion of any
vehicle not designed and intended for the carriage of passengers. The preceding
sentence shall not apply to Department or village vehicles or to vehicles
participating in Department or village activities, including, but not
necessarily limited to, parades or hay rides.
   (J)   Right-of-way.
      (1)   Every operator of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian at any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at any
intersection on Department property.
      (2)   Every operator of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid
colliding with pedestrians upon any roadway on Department property, shall give
warning to any pedestrian in the roadway by sounding the horn when necessary
and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child, confused person
or disabled person upon a roadway.
      (3)   Every pedestrian crossing at a roadway on Department property at
any point other than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk
at any intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles upon the roadway.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the operator of a vehicle
approaching an intersection on Department property shall yield the right-of-way
to a vehicle which has already entered the intersection from a different
roadway. When two vehicles approach an unmarked intersection from different
roadways at approximately the same time, the operator of the vehicle on the
left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (K)   Vehicle speed. Except for emergency vehicles, no person shall operate
any motor vehicle on any Department property at a speed which endangers the
safety of persons or property; at any speed greater than what is reasonable and
safe under the circumstances (such as, but not limited to, weather, presence of
pedestrians and other vehicles and the intended use of the area on which the
vehicle is being operated); or at any speed in excess of 20 mph.
   (L)   Unattended motor vehicles. No person driving, operating or otherwise
in charge of a motor vehicle on Department property shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing
the keys. When the motor vehicle is standing upon any perceptible grade, the
person shall set the parking brake thereon and turn the front wheels to the
curb or side of the roadway.
   (M)   Vehicles subject to tow. Any unattended vehicle parked in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to tow pursuant to
Chapter 78 as an unlawful vehicle, where notice of the potential for such tow
has been reasonably provided at the Department property where the unattended
vehicle in question has been parked.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 21-1693, passed 4-7-2021; Ord. 23-1838, passed 3-
15-2023; Ord. 24-1891, passed 1-17-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 DEPARTMENT PROPERTY USE BY PERMIT - GENERAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Department may, after receipt of a completed application and any
applicable fees due in connection therewith, issue a permit for the use of
Department property where the provisions of this chapter or other provisions of
this code provide for the availability of a permit for the proposed use in
question (including general use permits contemplated by § 93.05(S)), and where
the provisions of Appendix A-1, attached to Ord. 21-1693, have designated the
particular Department property or relevant portion thereof as a location for
which a permit may be issued for the proposed use in question. All persons
desiring a general use permit for the use of Department property shall file an
application therefor and submit the same to the Department, on forms as
provided from time to time by the Department. Unless otherwise specifically
provided by this chapter or elsewhere in this code, all general use permit
applications shall be submitted to the Department at least seven calendar days
prior to the desired date of use of Department property. Where a license
agreement is also required by any provision of this chapter for the use of the
Department property in question, the issuance of the general use permit may be
effectuated by the inclusion of appropriate reference thereto in any such
license agreement.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of any applicable
fees due in connection therewith, and upon payment of any applicable general
use permit fee, the Department shall issue the general use permit that is the
subject of the application within a reasonable time after such receipt, and in
any event prior to the proposed desired date of use of Department property
unless:
      (1)   The desired date of use is in conflict with any previously approved
or scheduled use of the same Department property or portion thereof, and the
Department property in question cannot reasonably accommodate both the proposed
use and the previously approved or scheduled use at the same time;
      (2)   The proposed use conflicts with or is in competition with programs
or activities provided, sponsored or conducted by the Department;
      (3)   The proposed use would conflict, compete with or otherwise impair
the operations of Department concessionaires or contractors operating on
Department property under license or agreement with the village;
      (4)   The proposed use of the Department property or any portion thereof
is prohibited by or inconsistent with the designed and intended use of the
Department property in question, and with any site-specific rules posted at the
particular Department property by the Director;
      (5)   The proposed use of the Department would effectively preclude all
other use of the Department property in question by the general public or
others during the period of the proposed use;
      (6)   The proposed use violates any federal or state law, any provision
of this chapter or any provision of this code, including, but not limited to,
provisions of this chapter or the village code that require another permit in
addition to a general use permit, including, but not limited to, commercial
photography permits, and liquor license or permit required under
Chapter 112; and
      (7)   The nature of the proposed use of the Department property is such
that it cannot reasonably be accommodated at the particular Department property
in question under the circumstances, including, but not limited to, the risk of
damage to Department property or facilities, the risk of damage to
environmentally sensitive areas, the impairment of the ability of others to use
those portions of the Department property in question that are not subject to
or included with the proposed application during the period of the proposed use
of the Department property, unreasonable conflict or inconsistency with the
designed and intended purpose of the Department property in question, or
unreasonable conflict or inconsistency with the operations and functions of the
Department and its buildings, facilities, programs and activities.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this section, the Department
reserves the right to defer consideration of any application for a general use
permit that involves or requires the issuance of any liquor license or other
permit by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner unless and until the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall have first issued the liquor license or other
permit in question. Likewise, the Department reserves the right to defer
consideration of any application for a general use permit involving commercial
activities under §
93.05(R) unless and until the Department and the applicant shall have
negotiated a mutually agreeable license agreement relating to the proposed use
of the Department property for such commercial activity, or to condition its
approval of any such application on the mutual execution of such a license
agreement.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this section, applications
for general use permits required under this chapter only involving the exercise
of First Amendment rights shall be submitted for review not less than three
working days prior to the desired date of the proposed use of the Department
property, and the Department shall act upon the same before the desired date
and time of the proposed usage of the Department property. To facilitate the
conduct of any activities for which such a general use permit is sought, the
Department shall make available a designated area available to the permit
applicant that provides the applicant with the ability to engage in its desired
activities while at the same time avoiding or minimizing conflicts with other
uses and users of Department property or facilities; likewise, such a
designated area shall be similarly made available to groups or persons seeking
to conduct activities involving only the exercise of First Amendment rights
even though no permit is required for the particular activities in question
under the provisions of this chapter. Use of any such designated area provided
by the Department shall, in all cases, be at the sole and voluntary discretion
of the applicant or the persons or entities seeking to use Department property
or facilities for the exercise of First Amendment rights, and the usage or
nonusage of such a designated area shall not be considered in connection with
the review and approval of any general use permit application or other
application hereunder. Applicable application or permit fees may be waived by
the Department if the applicant demonstrates that the amount of the same is
prohibitive to the applicant. Likewise, the Department may waive any applicable
requirement for general liability insurance or modify the applicable limits of
such insurance under this section if the applicant demonstrates that it is not
financially able to acquire general liability insurance with the limits
required by the Department hereunder. Similarly, security deposit amounts may
be waived or reduced if the applicant demonstrates that the amount of the same
is prohibitive to the applicant, and the applicant agrees, in writing, to
perform any required cleaning, repair or restoration activities occasioned by
its use of Department property, in a form reasonably acceptable to the village.
   (E)   If the application is approved, the Department may issue a written
general use permit to the applicant. If the application is denied, the
Department shall explain the reasons for denying the application. Denials of
applications may be appealed pursuant to the provisions of §
41.20; provided, however, that Department decisions on denials applications
involving the issuance of liquor licenses or other permits by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner and applications involving commercial activities under §
93.05(R) shall be final, where the denial of the application in question rests
in whole or in part on the nonissuance of any license or permit by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, or where the denial rests in whole or in part on
the inability of the Department and the applicant to execute a mutually
satisfactory license agreement for applications involving commercial activities
under §
93.05(R).
   (F)   If an application is denied on the basis of a scheduling conflict or
inappropriateness of the location, duration or time of the activity, the
Department will make a reasonable effort to arrange an alternative that is
acceptable to all parties.
   (G)   Any general use permit granted by the Department may contain lawful
conditions to the issuing of the general use permit and restrictions on the
conduct of the permitted activity, including, without limitation: general
liability insurance coverage; an agreement to fully indemnify and hold the
Department harmless from any liability or costs resulting from the activity; a
requirement that the persons involved in the activity obey or comply with all
federal, state, local and Department laws, rules and regulations; time,
duration and location restrictions; security deposit; a written agreement by
the applicant to fully restore any Department property soiled or damaged by the
activity; and any reasonable restriction necessary for the efficient and
orderly contemporaneous administration of the activity together with other user
activities for which a general use permit has been issued, general public use
of Department property and regular Department uses, functions, programs and
activities. The Department reserves the right to amend each general use permit
after issuance to add additional conditions or restrictions necessary to
protect Department property, the operations and functions of the Department and
its activities and other lawful users of Department property.
   (H)   The Department retains the right to suspend or revoke a previously
issued general use permit upon written notice to the holder thereof upon the
occurrence of any violation of the terms and conditions thereof, or upon the
occurrence of any violation of this chapter, this code or other applicable law.
A suspension or revocation may be appealed pursuant to the provisions of §
41.20.
   (I)   General use permits may be issued for a maximum length of seven
consecutive calendar days, except for general use permits involving commercial
activities under §
93.05(R), the duration of which shall be subject to the discretion of the
Department. A general use permit may be extended for like periods of time upon
a subsequent application, subject to the Department’s prior receipt of an
application for a general use permit for the same location at the same time,
where both proposed uses of the Department cannot be accommodated concurrently.
   (J)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all general use permits
applicants shall, upon approval of a general use permit application, provide
the Department with proof of general liability insurance coverage with limits
acceptable to the village and the Department, but in no event shall such limits
be less than $1,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence for personal
injury (including death) and property damage, and not less than $3,000,000 in
the aggregate. The village and its officials, employees, agents and volunteers
shall be named as additional insured under such coverage by written
endorsement. All such insurance shall provide that it is primary and
noncontributory to any insurance coverage of the village. No permit will be
issued without proof of such insurance coverage notwithstanding the approval of
the application except as otherwise specifically provided for in this section.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no insurance coverage shall be required under a
general use permit where the permit application demonstrates that the permit is
for a private, noncommercial social gathering, including, but not necessarily
limited to, picnics, birthday parties, graduation parties and the like, unless
the general use permit application in question indicates or demonstrates that
the proposed activities to be conducted under the permit being applied for
involve the use of third party compensated vendors, and in such a case, the
proposed third party vendor shall be required to supply insurance coverage that
complies with the requirements hereinabove stated.
   (K)   All general use permit applicants must execute an indemnification
agreement in favor of the village, in such form as the village may from time to
time require, which agreement shall provide that as a condition of the issuance
of the general use permit requested by the applicant, the applicant shall
indemnify, defend and hold the village harmless from any and all liabilities,
costs, damages and claims arising from the applicant’s use of the Department
property pursuant to such permit, or from the actions or failures to act of the
applicant or of any participant, member, volunteer, agent, employee or
associate of the applicant.
   (L)   The Department shall require security deposits in connection with each
general use permit issued. The amount of the deposit shall be determined by the
Department with reference to the nature of the proposed use of the Department
property, the specific Department property to be used and the reasonably
anticipated potential cleaning, repair or restoration costs associated
therewith. Deposits shall be refunded within a reasonable time after the use of
the Department property in all cases where the Department is not required to
clean, repair or otherwise restore the Department property after the
permittee’s use thereof. In any case where the Department is required to clean,
repair or otherwise restore Department property after a permittee’s use
thereof, the permittee shall be responsible to the village for all costs
incurred by the Department in connection therewith, and the deposit shall not
be returned unless and until the village is fully reimbursed within 15 days
after invoicing the permittee for all such costs. In the event that the village
is not so fully reimbursed, the village may apply the amount of the deposit
towards reimbursing the Department’s incurred costs, and may further take such
other actions as necessary to collect any amount of such costs remaining unpaid
after the application of such deposit.
   (M)   Notwithstanding the unavailability of a general use permit for a
particular activity or Department property, the village, through the
Department, shall retain the authority to approve the conduct of particular
uses or activities at or on particular Department property, but only in
accordance with the terms of a use agreement acceptable to the village and the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 21-1693, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 93.08 VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND SUSPENSION/REVOCATION OF PERMITS AND
PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   All persons present on any Department property, and all participants,
attendees or volunteers in any activity, program or event conducted, organized
or sponsored by the Department shall at all times comply with the provisions of
this chapter, the village code, other applicable law and any consistent
supplementary rules that may be issued from time to time by the Director
concerning the use of Department property, or the conduct of, participation in
or attendance at activities, events or programs conducted, organized or
sponsored by the Department, together with any directions or instructions of
any village or Department employee seeking to enforce compliance with any of
the same.
   (B)   Any person violating or disobeying any section or part of this
chapter, other than or any other village or Department ordinance, policy, rule
or regulation, may be forthwith evicted and removed from District property, may
have their admission privileges relating to Department property revoked, or
suspended for such period of time as the Director or their designee shall
determine, subject to the guidelines hereinafter set forth, and/or may, upon
conviction, and unless otherwise specified herein, be fined in an amount not
less than $100 and not more than $750 for each offense and/or required to
perform community service work. Proceedings to enforce against violations of
this chapter may be commenced in the 12th Judicial Circuit Court or
alternatively before the village administrative hearing officer pursuant to
Chapter 41.
   (C)   Any person who upon any Department property commits any violation of
the provisions of this chapter, the village code or applicable state or federal
law as hereinafter classified may, in addition to any other penalties provided
for by this chapter, be subject to having their privilege to enter upon such
Department property and up to all other Department property suspended for up to
the number of days as hereinafter indicated. Notice of such a suspension shall
be provided to the violating party in writing, and may be provided by the
Director, any superintendent, any of their designees or by any sworn officer of
the Village Police Department. Entry upon the Department property designated in
a notice of suspension shall be deemed to violate this division (C), and shall
further be referred for enforcement under §
93.04(D) and §
132.048 and/or applicable provisions of state law.
      (1)   Class I violations - ten-day suspension:
         (a)   All violations of §
93.04, except as otherwise indicated herein;
         (b)   All violations of §
93.05, except as otherwise indicated herein;
         (c)   All violations of §
93.06, except as otherwise indicated herein; and
         (d)   All violations of §
93.07, except as otherwise indicated herein, including all violations of any
permit issued under §
93.07.
      (2)   Class II violations - 30-day suspension:
         (a)   Violations of §
93.04(E);
         (b)   Violations of §
93.04(F)(3) and (F)(5);
         (c)   Violations of §
93.05(A);
         (d)   Violations of §
93.05(B)(7);
         (e)   Violations of §
93.05(C);
         (f)   Violations of §
93.05(D);
         (g)   Violations of §
93.05(F);
         (h)   Violations of §
93.05(G);
         (i)   Violations of §
93.05(I);
         (j)   Violations of §
93.05(J)(4) or (J)(6);
         (k)   Violations of §
93.05(O);
         (l)   Violations of §
93.06(A);
         (m)   Violations of §
93.06(B);
         (n)   Violations of §
93.06(C);
         (o)   Violations of §
93.06(G); and
         (p)   A second Class I violation by any party having previously
committed any Class I violation.
      (3)   Class III violations - 60-day suspension:
         (a)   A third or subsequent Class I violation by any party having
previously committed two or more Class I violations; and
         (b)   Second or subsequent Class II violations by any party having
previously committed one or more Class II violations.
      (4)   Appeals of any notice of suspension issued hereunder may be had in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 41.
   (D)   In addition to any other penalty or enforcement provision of this
chapter or the village code, any person violating any provision of this chapter
or the village code or other applicable state or federal law shall be liable to
make restitution to the village in an amount equal to the reasonable cost to
repair to restore or repair any damage or loss caused to the village by such
violation.
(Prior Code, § 94.08) (Ord. 21-1693, passed 4-7-2021)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Encroachments on Public Right-of-Way
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Encroachments prohibited
Roadside Memorial Program
   
94.15   Title
   
94.16   Purpose
   
94.17   Definitions
   
94.18   Permit required
   
94.19   Participation in program with memorial marker
   
94.20   Memorial markers
   
94.21   Temporary roadside memorial program without memorial marker
Block Party Permitting and Regulations
   
94.35   Block party permit application
   
94.36   Block party permit required
   
94.37   Block party permit regulations
   
94.38   Block party permit revocation
 
   
94.99   Penalty
**** ENCROACHMENTS ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY ****
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA. The area lying between the project right-of-way
limits and the platted street limits within which the village, by concurrence
in the establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the state
to enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any buildings, fence, sign or any other structure or object of
any kind, with the exception of utilities and public road signs, which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the project
right-of-way or the roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way line has
been established.
   PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the village, state and the federal highway
administration which will be free of encroachments except as herein defined.
   ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 283, passed 10-1-1969; Ord. 545, passed 7-20-1977;
Ord. 548, passed 8-3-1977)
§ 94.02 ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind
to retain or cause any encroachment within any project right-of-way or roadway
right-of-way, except as otherwise permitted by this code, by a license
agreement approved by the village or by the lawful order of another
governmental agency having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 283, passed 10-1-1969; Ord. 545, passed 7-20-1977;
Ord. 548, passed 8-3-1977) Penalty, see §
94.99
**** ROADSIDE MEMORIAL PROGRAM ****
§ 94.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be formally adopted as the Roadside Memorial Program.
(Prior Code, § 95.15) (Ord. 09-0786, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 94.16 PURPOSE.
   The program is intended to afford families an opportunity to remember the
victims of automobile accidents.
(Prior Code, § 95.16) (Ord. 09-0786, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 94.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEMORIAL MARKER. A marker on a roadway within the village limits
commemorating one or more persons who died as a proximate result of a crash.
   QUALIFIED RELATIVE. An immediate relative of the deceased, by marriage,
blood or adoption, such as their spouse, son, daughter, mother, father, sister
or brother; a stepmother, stepfather, stepbrother or stepsister of the
deceased; or a person with whom the deceased was in a domestic partnership or
civil union as recognized by a state or local law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 95.17) (Ord. 09-0786, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 94.18 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or locate a memorial within the
village without first obtaining a permit from the Building Department. All
permits for memorials shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.18) (Ord. 09-0786, passed 9-16-2009) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM WITH MEMORIAL MARKER.
   (A)   A qualified relative of a victim may make a request for the
installation of a memorial marker within the village limits using the
appropriate application. The village shall have sole responsibility for
determining whether a request for a memorial marker is rejected or accepted.
   (B)   If there is any opposition to the placement of a memorial marker by
any qualified relative of any decedent involved in the crash, the village shall
deny the request.
   (C)   The village shall deny the request or, if a memorial marker has
already been installed, may remove the marker, if the qualified relative has
provided false or misleading information in the application.
   (D)   The qualified relative shall agree not to place the placement of
flowers, pictures or other items at the crash site.
   (E)   A memorial marker shall not be erected for a deceased driver involved
in a fatal crash who is shown by police reports to have been reckless of any
state or local law.
(Prior Code, § 95.19) (Ord. 09-0786, passed 9-16-2009) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 MEMORIAL MARKERS.
   (A)   A memorial marker shall consist of a panel bearing the message “In
Memory of (victim’s name),” followed by the date of the crash that was the
proximate cause of the loss of the victim’s life.
   (B)   A memorial marker may memorialize more than one victim who died as a
result of the same crash. If one or more additional crash deaths subsequently
occur in close proximity to an existing memorial marker, the village may use
the same marker to memorialize the subsequent death or deaths, by adding the
names of the additional persons.
   (C)   A memorial marker shall be maintained for at least two years from the
date the last person was memorialized on the marker. (After two years, the
marker shall be removed.)
   (D)   The village will construct the marker and has the right to install a
marker at a location other than the location of the crash or to relocate a
marker due to restricted room, property owner complaints, interference with
essential traffic control devices, safety concerns or other restrictions. In
such cases, the sponsoring jurisdiction may select an alternate location.
   (E)   A fee in an amount of $100 will be charged to the qualified relative.
(The fee shall not exceed the costs associated with the fabrication,
installation and maintenance of the memorial marker.)
(Prior Code, § 95.20) (Ord. 09-0786, passed 9-16-2009)
§ 94.21 TEMPORARY ROADSIDE MEMORIAL PROGRAM WITHOUT MEMORIAL MARKER.
   (A)   Application. Application for permit shall contain the name, address
and phone number of applicant and the location where the memorial is to be
erected and such other information regarding the placement of the memorial as
required by the Department of Public Works to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   Issuance; duration. Permits for memorials shall have a duration of 60
days from the date the permit is issued. Applicants may not request an
extension. Memorials in place past the 60 days permitted shall be removed and
disposed of by the Code Enforcement Department.
   (C)   Size and construction requirements. Memorials shall be constructed of
materials able to withstand wind pressures and exposure to outside elements.
Memorials shall be no larger than 36 inches in height and in width. Memorials
shall be of a color that is reflective and clearly visible at night and during
periods of inclement weather.
   (D)   Unsafe and unlawful memorials. If the Code Inspector shall find that
any memorial erected is unsafe, insecure or a menace to the public or has been
constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation with the provisions
of this subchapter, the Building Inspector shall give written notice to the
permittee of the violation. If the permittee fails to bring the memorial into
compliance within five days of notification, the memorial may be removed from
the location.
   (E)   Location limitations. Memorials shall not be located in, encroach upon
or be located in such a manner as to constitute a hazard to the health or
safety of persons on any public right-of-way. At intersections, memorials shall
not obstruct the view of traffic entering the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 95.21) (Ord. 09-0786, passed 9-16-2009)
**** BLOCK PARTY PERMITTING AND REGULATIONS ****
§ 94.35 BLOCK PARTY PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any and all persons desiring to use any residential street of the
village for the purpose of holding or conducting a social gathering of
residents from a given street, commonly known as a “block party,” shall first
be required to make application therefor to the village on such forms as are
provided by the village from time to time for such purpose. At a minimum, the
application form shall require the applicant(s) to provide the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant(s);
      (2)   Date of application;
      (3)   Date and start/end times of proposed block party;
      (4)   Location of block party, indicating the area or section of the
village street proposed to be closed or barricaded during the proposed block
party;
      (5)   A narrative description of activities to be conducted at the
proposed block party, including a description of any proposed live or recorded
music to be played during the proposed block party, along with an estimate of
the number of persons expected to attend the block party;
      (6)   A statement as to whether alcohol will be served or consumed at the
proposed block party;
      (7)   A statement that the applicants will at all times during the
proposed block party provide appropriate monitoring and volunteer personnel to
move barricades as requested to permit access for fire, ambulance/EMS, law
enforcement, REMA, Public Works and other public safety personnel of the
village or other agencies, and to permit pedestrian or vehicular access for
block residents and their guests or invitees;
      (8)   A statement that the applicant(s) acknowledge(s) personal
responsibility for the clean-up and removal of all garbage, refuse, litter and
debris or other materials placed or deposited within any village street or upon
any other village right-of-way, easement or property the conclusion of the
block party, and agree(s) to complete all required clean-up and removal
activities required as of or prior to the scheduled end time of the block
party;
      (9)   A statement that the applicant is responsible for having all
barricades provided by the village for use in connection with the block party
ready to be picked up from the location where delivered by 7:00 a.m. on the
first weekday following the conclusion of the block party, village holidays
excluded;
      (10)   Copies of the driver’s licenses or state issued identification
cards of the permit applicants;
      (11)   Signatures from a majority of the households on the affected block
indicating that such households consent to the proposed block party; and
      (12)   A statement indemnifying and holding harmless the village, its
elected and appointed officials and its officers, employees and agents of and
from any and all claims or damages arising from or in any way related to the
conduct of the proposed block party or the use of any public street, right-of-
way, easement or other property of the village in connection therewith.
   (B)   Applications for block parties must be filed with the village a
minimum of two weeks prior to the requested block party date.
(Prior Code, § 95.30) (Ord. 15-1176, passed 2-4-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 BLOCK PARTY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall use any village residential street or adjacent right-of-way
or public easement for the conduct of a block party as described in §
94.35 without having first applied for and received a block party permit from
the village.
(Prior Code, § 95.31) (Ord. 15-1176, passed 2-4-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.37 BLOCK PARTY PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   By applying for or receiving any block party permit, or by conducting,
attending or participating in any block party pursuant to such a permit, the
applicant(s) for such permit accept responsibility to ensure that the block
party is conducted in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations
of the village, including, but not limited to, the provisions of this chapter,
and acknowledge that the applicant(s) may be held responsible for any
violations of any applicable ordinances and regulations of the village,
including, but not limited to, the provisions of this chapter, that occur
during the conduct of the block party. All persons attending any block party,
pursuant to a duly issued block party permit, shall likewise, by their
attendance, accept responsibility for complying with all applicable ordinances
and regulations of the village in connection therewith.
   (B)   Without limiting or modifying the foregoing, all block parties shall
specifically be required to comply with the regulations hereinafter set forth
in this section, and all block party permits issued by the village are issued
subject to compliance therewith.
      (1)   Block parties may only be conducted on streets classified under the
village zoning code as “residential streets,” and shall not be held on any
village streets classified under the village zoning code as arterial streets or
collector streets.
      (2)   The village shall determine the number of barricades required in
connection with any given block party, and shall deliver the same to the
residence of one of the permit applicants by 5:00 p.m. of the last weekday
prior to the proposed block party, excluding village holidays.
      (3)   Only village-issued barricades shall be used to close any village
street for the conduct of a block party, and no motor vehicles or other items
shall be used for such purpose.
      (4)   No physical alteration of any type whatsoever may be made to any
village street, right-of-way, easement or other property in connection with any
block party.
      (5)   No tents, canopies, stages, inflatable play structures/devices or
other like items or structures shall be placed on any village street, right-of-
way, easement or other property in connection with any block party.
      (6)   No more than one block, measured as the distance between the two
nearest cross streets intersecting the street that is the location of a block
party, may be barricaded or closed off in connection with a block party, and
not more than one block on any residential street within the village shall be
the subject of an active block party permit at any given time.
      (7)   All garbage, refuse, litter and debris or other materials remaining
within any village street or upon any other village right-of-way, easement or
property, after the conclusion of the block party, shall be cleaned up and
removed from the village street or right-of-way on or before the scheduled end
time of the block party, and the barricades shall likewise be removed and the
street or right-of-way fully reopened to vehicular traffic on or before the
scheduled end time of the block party.
      (8)   All block parties must conclude by 11:30 p.m. on the date on which
the block party is scheduled to be held.
      (9)   No block party permit shall be issued for more than one day, and no
block party permits shall be issued for consecutive days for the same block.
      (10)   No block party attendees shall engage in any conduct that would
constitute disorderly conduct under §
134.01, except that the provisions of §
134.01(C) shall be inapplicable to any person attending a block party pursuant
to a duly issued block party permit while such permit remains in full force and
effect.
      (11)   Block party applicants shall ensure that barricades used to close
off or block off a street for a block party are monitored and staffed by
volunteers at all times to move barricades as requested to permit access for
fire, ambulance/EMS, law enforcement, REMA, Public Works and other public
safety personnel of the village or other agencies, and to permit pedestrian or
vehicular access for block residents and their guests or invitees.
      (12)   Block party applicants shall ensure that a drive aisle of
approximately 12 feet in width is maintained within the closed/barricaded
street for access for fire, ambulance/EMS, law enforcement, REMA, Public Works
and other public safety personnel of the village or other agencies having
jurisdiction.
      (13)   No sale of alcoholic beverages for any form of consideration shall
be permitted in connection with the conduct of any block party, and no minor
shall possess or consume alcoholic beverages at, during or in connection with
any block party.
      (14)   All block party permit applicants shall remain in attendance at
the block party for the entirety of its scheduled duration.
      (15)   No persons attending any block party shall make any loud noises or
create any disturbances that constitute a nuisance to the public not in
attendance at the block party, and the applicants for any block party permit
shall likewise ensure that any live or recorded music played in connection with
any block party is kept at a volume that does not create a nuisance for members
of the public not in attendance at the block party.
      (16)   No fireplaces, fire pits or other like devices shall be placed or
operated within any street or public property, but charcoal or propane grills
may be used upon the pavement of any public street during a block party.
(Prior Code, § 95.32) (Ord. 15-1176, passed 2-4-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.38 BLOCK PARTY PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Any issued block party permit may be immediately revoked by the Village
Manager or any employee of the village designated by them where necessary for
the preservation or promotion of public safety, or based on substantial and
repeated violations of the conditions of the block party permit and/or the
applicable ordinances of the village, including, but not limited to, the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.33) (Ord. 15-1176, passed 2-4-2015)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 95: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Registration of alarm system required
   
95.03   Issuance; term of registration
   
95.04   Updating registration application
   
95.05   Alarm systems operation and maintenance
   
95.06   False alarm prohibited
   
95.07   Response to alarms
   
95.08   Liability of village limited
   
95.09   Excessive false alarms; fee assessment
   
95.10   Appeal of false alarm
   
95.11   Alarm revocation
   
95.12   Grace period for false alarm
   
95.13   Compliance
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM COORDINATORS. The Chiefs of the Police Department and Fire Department,
or their designees.
   ALARM SUBSCRIBER. The person, firm, corporation, partnership, organization
or association of any kind in control of any building, structure, facility,
premises or property or portion thereof, wherein an alarm system is maintained.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any device, mechanical, electrical or combination thereof
which is connected, directly or indirectly, to the Police or Fire Department
which is used to signal an unauthorized entry, other illegal act or a fire or
medical emergency in which immediate response is expected. ALARM SYSTEM also
includes any device which is audible, commonly referred to as outside ringers,
automatic dialers or systems which are monitored by any third-party which in
turn notifies the Police and/or Fire Department, or any device so visible or in
other ways perceptible outside a protected building, structure or facility as
to notify persons in the area to notify the Police or Fire Department of any
emergency or immediate response situation. This definition does not apply to
motor vehicles which are alarmed.
   ALARM SYSTEM BUSINESS. Any business, corporation, firm or person which, in
whole or part, sells, leases, maintains, services, repairs, alters, replaces,
moves or installs alarm systems.
   FALSE ALARM.
      (1)   A signal from any alarm system eliciting a response by the Police
or Fire Department when a situation requiring such a response does not in fact
exist. A FALSE ALARM may be caused by, but shall not be limited to:
         (a)   Mechanical failure;
         (b)   Malfunction of the alarm system;
         (c)   Improper installation, maintenance or servicing of the alarm
system;
         (d)   Negligent act of a person under the control, direction or employ
of the alarm subscriber; or
         (e)   Any other cause not related to actual or attempted unauthorized
entry of the premises, the commission of an unlawful act or a fire or medical
emergency.
      (2)   Alarms resulting from the following conditions shall not be
considered FALSE ALARMS:
         (a)   Criminal activity, or a fire or medical emergency;
         (b)   Earthquakes, unusually high winds, flooding, lightning or other
acts of God which could affect the alarm system;
         (c)   Telephone line malfunction verified, in writing, to the alarm
coordinators by at least a first line telephone company supervisor;
         (d)   Electrical service interruption verified in writing to the alarm
coordinator by the local power company unless it is completely obvious to the
responding officers that indeed a power interruption has occurred; or
         (e)   Notification made to the Police Department and/or Fire
Department, prior to any maintenance or testing.
   MALICIOUS FALSE ALARM. An activation of an alarm system through the
intentional action of any person having direct knowledge that no actual
emergency situation requiring assistance from the Police or Fire Department
exists at the time and location of said alarm activation. This shall not
include those situations in which the person activating the alarm shall be in
error due to information related by a third party, or shall act in response to
a perceived emergency that on further examination may not in fact be of an
emergency nature.
   TRUNK LINE. A telephone line leading into the communications center of the
Police Department or Fire Department that is for the primary purpose of
receiving emergency messages that originate from automatic protection devices
and are transmitted directly or through an alarm monitoring company.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.02 REGISTRATION OF ALARM SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership,
organization or association to lease, control or own an alarm system or be in
control of any premises, including single-family and multi-family dwellings and
business places wherein an alarm system is operated or maintained without first
obtaining and filing an alarm subscriber registration with the village, except
no registration shall be required for alarm systems contained in or on vehicles
or for alarm users registered under an agency as provided herein.
   (B)   Premises which utilize alarm systems with multiple devices may be
issued more than one alarm subscriber registration under the following
circumstances: where heat, smoke or other fire alerting devices are located in
adjacent businesses or housing units which transmit signals into a shared
control panel located on the combined premises. A single registration may be
issued to the property owner or their agent or to a property owner association
as long as such person or organization has legal control and accountability for
the entire alarm system and information required under the application for
registration is completed for each business entity in which a part of the alarm
system is contained.
   (C)   (1)   An application for an alarm subscriber registration shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and copies sent to the Police and Fire Departments
to be reviewed by the Alarm Coordinator.
      (2)   The application shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   Name, address and telephone number of the premises where the
alarm system is located;
         (c)   General description of the alarm system which classifies it as
burglary, safe, holdup, fire, medical or other; also, the type of alarm -
silent, audible, visual, third-party monitoring or other, including any
combination thereof. Any alarms classified as other shall include a brief
description as to category and type;
         (d)   Any third-party monitoring alarm system must include the name
and telephone number of the monitoring service;
         (e)   A listing of names, addresses and telephone numbers of at least
three persons responsible for the premises where the alarm system is located
and who should be contacted to de-activate the alarm system and respond to the
premises;
         (f)   The name, address and telephone number of the person, firm or
corporation that installed the alarm system and of the person, firm or
corporation responsible for any maintenance or repair of the alarm system; and
         (g)   The name and telephone number of an emergency board-up service
which has been authorized in advance by the alarm subscriber to respond if so
needed.
   (D)   An agency doing business as an alarm agent may register any or all of
its contracted alarm subscribers with the village under its own name provided
the agency:
      (1)   Completes a registration form as provided by the Village Clerk. The
registration form shall include the agency’s name, address and telephone number
as well as the agency’s license number if registered under the Illinois Private
Detective and Private Security Act of 1983; the Private Detective, Private
Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004; or the
Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security and Locksmith Act of 1993;
      (2)   Delivers once a month to the alarm coordinator a current
alphabetized list of all alarm users registered under the agency’s name; and
      (3)   Promptly pays all fees and fines resulting from false alarms on the
property or premises of an alarm user registered under the agency’s name.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.03 ISSUANCE; TERM OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The village shall issue an alarm user or agency registration within 15
days after a completed application or application renewal is filed and after
each application has been approved by the alarm coordinators. Following receipt
and acceptance of an application, the Village Clerk shall issue the applicant a
registration number. Prior to the issuance of an alarm user registration, the
alarm coordinators may cause an inspection of the alarm system(s) if deemed
necessary.
   (B)   All registrations shall expire three years after date of issuance, and
shall be prominently displayed.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.04 UPDATING REGISTRATION APPLICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any registrant to fail or refuse to amend a
registration application within ten days after any of the information required
becomes outdated or inaccurate. Failure to comply with this provision of the
chapter shall subject the alarm user or agency to a $10 charge, payable within
30 days of notification.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.05 ALARM SYSTEMS OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   An alarm subscriber or person in control of an alarm system shall:
      (1)   Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a manner that will
minimize or eliminate false alarm notifications;
      (2)   Respond or cause their representative to appear at the systems
location within a reasonable period of time when notified by the village to
deactivate a malfunctioning alarm system, to provide access to the premises or
to provide security for the premises; and
      (3)   Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than an
occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report.
   (B)   A person in control of a local alarm shall adjust the mechanism or
cause the mechanism to be adjusted so that an alarm signal will sound for no
longer than ten minutes after being activated.
(Prior Code, § 96.05) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.06 FALSE ALARM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership,
association or organization to activate or cause to be activated a false alarm
in the village. Each alarm subscriber shall be responsible for any false alarms
transmitted by the alarm system which they operate; provided, however, the
malicious false alarms transmitted without their knowledge or consent shall be
the responsibility of the person activating such alarm.
(Prior Code, § 96.06) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.07 RESPONSE TO ALARMS.
   (A)   Whenever an alarm is activated in the village thereby requiring an
emergency response to the location by the Police or Fire Department, and the
Police or Fire Department does respond, the Police or Fire Department personnel
on the scene of the activated alarm system shall inspect the area protected by
the system and shall determine whether the emergency response was in fact
required as indicated by the alarm system or whether the alarm signal was a
false alarm.
   (B)   If the Police or Fire Department personnel at the scene of the
activated alarm system determines the alarm to be false, said officers shall
make a report of the false alarm, a notification of which shall be mailed or
delivered to the alarm subscriber at the address of said alarm system
installation location, advising the alarm subscriber of the false alarm.
   (C)   The Chief of the Police or Fire Department or their designee shall
have the right to inspect any alarm system on the premises to which a response
has been made, and they may cause an inspection of such system to be made at
any reasonable time thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 96.07) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.08 LIABILITY OF VILLAGE LIMITED.
   The village shall take every reasonable precaution to assure that alarms
received by the Police or Fire Departments are given appropriate attention and
are acted upon with dispatch. Nevertheless, the village shall not be liable for
any defects in operation of devices, for any failure or neglect to respond
appropriately upon receipt of an alarm for such source, nor failure or neglect
of any person in connection with the installation and operation of equipment,
the transmission of alarm signals or the relaying of such signals and messages.
The village shall incur no liability for its actions, in the event it finds it
necessary to disconnect a device or revoke or suspend a permit. No special
relationship is entered into, or implied, between village and alarm subscriber
when a premises is found unsecured and the alarm subscriber cannot be contacted
or subscriber refuses to respond when contacted and the officers leave the
scene of the premises unsecured, the village or officers shall incur no
liability by such action.
(Prior Code, § 96.08) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS; FEE ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   If any alarm system produces three false alarms, the Chief of the
involved department shall provide written notice of the fact, which shall be
given by certified mail or delivery to the subscriber, asking the subscriber to
take corrective action in regard to false alarms and informing subscriber of
the false alarm fee schedule provided herein.
   (B)   Subscribers installing a new system or making substantial
modifications to an existing system shall be entitled to a grace period during
which alarms generated by such system shall be deemed non-false alarms. The
grace period shall cease 30 days after installation of or modification to an
alarm system. The Police and Fire Departments shall be notified of any
modifications to any existing alarm system.
   (C)   Upon any alarm system producing a fourth, fifth or sixth false alarm
within a calendar year, a fee of $50 per false alarm shall be charged to the
subscriber; a system producing a seventh, eighth or ninth false alarm within
the same calendar year, a fee of $75 per false alarm shall be charged to the
subscriber; any alarm system producing ten or more false alarms within a
calendar year, a fee of $100 per false alarm shall be charged to the
subscriber.
   (D)   All fees assessed must be paid to the Village Clerk. A written appeal
must be submitted to the alarm coordinator within three business days of fee
assessment.
(Prior Code, § 96.09) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990; Ord. 2174-92, passed 6-
17-1992)
§ 95.10 APPEAL OF FALSE ALARM.
   (A)   Any subscriber who has been notified of a false alarm or assessed a
false alarm fee may appeal to the alarm coordinators by giving written notice
and posting a bond equal to the amount of fee, if applicable, within three
business days of the invoice assessing such fee. Upon receipt of the appeal
notice and bond, if applicable, a time certain shall be set for a hearing.
   (B)   The appellant shall be given reasonable notice of such hearing;
failure of the appellant to appear at such hearing shall, if applicable, result
in forfeiture of the appeal bond, and application of such bond toward the false
alarm fee assessed by the village.
   (C)   The alarm coordinator, or their designee, shall serve as hearing
officer, the burden of proof shall be upon the appellant to show by a
preponderance of the evidence that the alarm signal in question was not a false
alarm as defined in §
95.03.
   (D)   After receipt of all relevant evidence, the hearing officer shall,
within three days, render their decision. If the hearing officer determines
that the appellant has met the burden of proof, then they shall order the
appeal bond released to the appellant and/or rescind the false alarm
determination. If the hearing officer determines that the appellant has not met
the burden of proof, then they shall order the appeal bond be forfeited and
applied toward the alarm fee as assessed by the village and/or enter such alarm
as a false alarm.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, FEE shall mean any and all
outstanding false alarm fees owed up to and including the date of the written
appeal.
(Prior Code, § 96.10) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.11 ALARM REVOCATION.
   (A)   No alarm system will be allowed to transmit or in any other way
connect to an alarm board or other receiving equipment located on village
property or monitored by village employees unless said alarm system is
registered in accordance with the provisions contained herein and said alarm
system is working in a manner that is determined to be satisfactory by the
alarm coordinators.
   (B)   In the event an alarm system is not registered as required by this
chapter, or is not working in a satisfactory manner as determined by the alarm
coordinators or any fees payable to the village are 30 days overdue, said alarm
system shall at the direction of the alarm coordinator be disconnected from
direct monitoring at the public safety answering point.
   (C)   An alarm subscriber or agency whose registration has been revoked may
apply for a revoked user’s registration subject to the term thereof. The alarm
coordinator may impose reasonable restrictions and conditions upon the alarm
subscriber or agency before issuing a revoked user’s registration, which
restrictions and conditions shall be written on the registration. A revoked
user’s registration shall be issued for the remainder of the regular calendar
year and the fee of such revoked user’s registration shall be $250. In addition
to the registration fee, the holder of a revoked user’s registration shall be
assessed an additional charge of $100 for each false alarm thereafter, in
addition to any other fee or charge contained in the provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.11) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.12 GRACE PERIOD FOR FALSE ALARM.
   Whenever a new alarm system is installed, the alarm user shall be given 30
days from the date of the installation before alarms from the premises shall be
deemed to be false alarms.
(Prior Code, § 96.12) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.13 COMPLIANCE.
   Any person, firm or corporation with an existing alarm system shall have 90
days after the effective date of this chapter to file an application for an
alarm user or agency registration.
(Prior Code, § 96.13) (Ord. 2062-90, passed 9-5-1990)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
      
111.   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   RAFFLES
      
114.   HAWKERS, PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
      
115.   PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES
      
116.   CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE
      
117.   CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS
      
118.   LICENSING AND SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
      
119.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
120.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
121.   RESTAURANTS, VENDING MACHINES AND FOOD OPERATIONS
      
122.   FOOD TRUCKS AND FOOD TRUCK OPERATORS
Cross-reference:
   Pet dealers, see §§
90.120 through
90.122
   Taxes, related to automobile renting, replacement vehicles, self-storage
facilities, tax abatements, hotel and motels, occupation, motor fuel, food and
beverage, real estate, gas use, see
Chapter 44
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
Section
Business Licenses
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Exemptions
   
110.04   Existing businesses
   
110.05   Applications
   
110.06   Application/license fee
   
110.07   Investigation
   
110.08   Inspections
   
110.09   Transferability of licenses
   
110.10   Building and premises
   
110.11   Location
   
110.12   Nuisances prohibited
   
110.13   Revocation or suspension
   
110.14   License to be posted; destruction and/or removal
   
110.15   License period
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Related taxes, see
Chapter 44
**** BUSINESS LICENSES ****
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, profession, establishment, concern or enterprise
conducted for profit, except those occupations or professions licensed
exclusively by the state or instrumentally thereof. In addition, where two or
more separate businesses by the above definition, separately owned or operated,
share floor space in the same building or on the same parcel of ground and the
floor space is subdivided, each shall be deemed a separate business based on
the floor area that each separately uses. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
ownership and leasing of buildings, structures or properties (real or personal)
shall not, in and of themselves, constitute a BUSINESS for the purposes of this
subchapter.
   TOTAL FLOOR AREA. Include the sum of all the floor area in use or reserved
for or retained for the use of business, including, but not limited to,
principal and accessory floor area, cellars and basements, storage or detached
accessory buildings, even if any such floor area may be temporarily vacant or
not in use.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership
or any other entity shall conduct, engage in, maintain, operate, carry on or
manage any business, occupation, activity or establishment, either by themself,
itself or through an agent, employee or partner, without first having obtained
a business license under this chapter for such business, occupation, activity
or establishment.
   (B)   In all instances where a license is required by the village, such
license shall be granted and signed by the Village Manager and attested by the
Village Clerk under the seal of the village unless otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   (C)   The obtaining of a business license pursuant to this chapter in no way
precludes the responsibility for obtaining other licenses, permits, approvals
or inspections as required by this code or applicable state or federal laws or
regulations.
   (D)   Whenever a license, permit, approval or inspection is required by this
code or applicable state or federal laws or regulations for the maintenance,
operation or conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or
engaging in any activity or occupation, any person, firm or corporation shall
be subject to the requirement of obtaining such license, permit, approval or
inspection if, by themself, itself or through an agent, employee or partner,
they or it is held forth as being engaged in the business, activity or
occupation or if they or it solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively,
or if they or it performs or attempts to perform any part of such business,
activity or occupation in the village.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Persons, firms, corporations, organizations or entities that are
registered with or organized by the state for bona fide governmental,
charitable, religious, fraternal, civic, patriotic, social or purposes not
including pecuniary profit or those possessing and maintaining a valid federal
tax exemption under I.R.C. § 501(c) shall be exempt from having to purchase
and/or maintain a business license under the provisions of this chapter but
shall be required to register annually with the village for informational
purposes on forms for such purpose as approved from time to time by the
Community Development Department. Nothing in this division (A) shall exempt
such persons, firms, corporations, organizations or entities from any other
applicable ordinances of the village, including, but not limited to, the
inspectional requirements of Chapters
91,
150 and
153.
   (B)   Persons, firms, corporations, organizations or entities engaged in any
business that the village is preempted from licensing or regulating under the
laws of the state or the United States shall be exempt from having to purchase
or maintain a business license under the provisions of this chapter but shall
be required to register annually with the village for informational purposes on
forms for such purpose as approved from time to time by the Community
Development Department. Nothing in this division (B) shall exempt such persons,
firms, corporations, organizations or entities from any otherwise applicable
ordinances of the village, including, but not limited to, the inspectional
requirements of Chapters
91,
150 and
153.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.04 EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   All persons, firms, organizations or entities owning or operating existing
businesses within the village that are not exempt from the provisions of this
chapter shall apply for and obtain an initial business license under the
provisions of this chapter not later than 30 days from the date of the adoption
of this chapter. Such initial business license shall be valid and in effect
from issuance until December 31, 2021. After December 31, 2021, all persons,
firms, organizations or entities owning or operating existing businesses within
the village that are not exempt from the provisions of this chapter shall apply
for and obtain business licenses in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of §
110.05.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.05 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for all business licenses (or for exempt registrations)
shall be made to the Community Development Department, in writing, on a form
provided for that purpose. Application forms (and exempt registration forms)
shall be made available at the Village Hall at 1050 W. Romeo Road, Romeoville,
Illinois 60446. Completed application/registration forms shall be submitted to
the Community Development Department a minimum of 15 days prior to the license/
registration being required to allow for proper examination and investigation.
   (B)   If the applicant is an individual (sole proprietorship), the
application shall contain the individual’s name, residence address, telephone
number and email address. If the applicant is a partnership, the application
shall contain the name, address, telephone number and email address of each
partner thereof. If the applicant is a corporation, LLC or other entity, the
application shall contain the name, address, telephone number and email address
of each principal officer or manager and the registered agent or office
thereof.
   (C)   Each application also shall contain:
      (1)   A designation of the type or kind of business for which the license
is desired;
      (2)   The location or proposed location of the place of business,
occupation or activity;
      (3)   The applicable fee to be paid as provided in §
43.01;
      (4)   The number of the certificate of registration required under the
Retailer’s Occupation Tax Act, 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.; Service Occupation Tax
Act, 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.; and/or Use Tax Act, 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq., if
applicable;
      (5)   The social security and driver’s license numbers of any individual
applicant and the federal and state tax identification number of all other
applicants; and
      (6)   Such additional information as may be needed for the proper
guidance of village officials in the evaluation of such application or other
information as required under any other chapter of this code, including proof
of any insurance policy or bond required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.06 APPLICATION/LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Application and license fees shall be payable in accordance with the
requirements of Chapters 43 and 154. Except as otherwise expressly provided in
this chapter, there shall be no proration or reduction of a required
application or license fee based on the date of the license application, the
termination of the operations of the licensed business, the revocation or
suspension of a business license or any other cause or reason.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the application and
license fees shall be waived once but only with respect to the initial issuance
of a license pursuant to this chapter for the year in which this chapter is
adopted for any person or entity that:
      (1)   As of the date of the adoption of this chapter holds an existing,
fully paid, current and valid business license issued by the village pursuant
to the applicable village ordinances in existence as of the date of the
adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   Is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all
otherwise applicable ordinances of the village and federal or state statutes as
of the date of the adoption of this chapter; and
      (3)   Makes application for a business license under the provisions of
this chapter within the time specified in §
110.04.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.07 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon the receipt of a complete application for a license by the Community
Development Department, all relevant village departments shall review the
application and any information or materials provided in support thereof and
report thereon within 15 days to the Community Development Department and prior
to the issuance of any business license by the village. This time period may be
extended by agreement between the village and the applicant. If, after such
review, the application demonstrates that the applicant has complied with the
requirements of this chapter, the village shall, within seven days, issue such
license, subject to the payment of the applicable fees. If such review of the
application demonstrates the existence of any of the conditions hereinafter set
forth in this section, the village shall, within seven days thereafter, notify
the applicant in writing of such denial, the reasons for such denial and the
process to appeal a license denial pursuant to the applicable provisions of
this chapter. Such notifications shall be deemed to be properly served when
sent by registered mail, return receipt requested or by a nationally recognized
overnight carrier to the applicant’s most recent address disclosed to the
village within any license application or when personally delivered or served
upon the applicant as evidenced by the written affidavit of the person making
such delivery or service.
(Prior Code, § 113.07) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.08 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the
provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the village or to detect or
investigate violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the
person in charge of the premises to admit thereto for the purpose of making the
inspection any officer or employee of the village who is duly authorized to
make such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is
requested. Without otherwise limiting or modifying the foregoing, it shall
additionally be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the
premises to admit thereto for the purpose of making inspections to determine
compliance with the applicable ordinances of the village any officer or
employee of the village who is duly authorized to make inspections on behalf of
the village in the case of any change in the ownership, occupancy or use of the
premises from which the licensed business is operated.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulations, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of the village requesting the same sufficient samples of
such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   (C)   Whenever the premises used for or in connection with the operation of
a licensed business or occupation is located in a leased space, the provisions
of the village rental property inspection ordinance found under
Chapter 153 shall apply to such premises. No business license shall be issued
to a business or occupation located in a leased space without a valid rental
property certificate of occupancy evidencing the landlord’s or owner’s
compliance with the requirements of
Chapter 153.
   (D)   In the event that any licensee or applicant for a license declines to
permit any inspection of premises otherwise required or contemplated by any of
the provisions of this chapter, the village, in addition to pursuing any other
remedy or penalty or taking any other action contemplated by this chapter, may
apply to the circuit court for the issuance of an administrative search warrant
for the purposes of conducting the contemplated inspection.
(Prior Code, § 113.08) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.09 TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSES.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, a license issued
under this chapter is personal to the applicant/licensee, and may not be sold,
transferred, assigned or conveyed. In the event of any change in the ownership
of a corporation, limited liability company or other entity holding a license
under the provisions of this chapter, the licensee in question shall provide
the Community Development Department notification of such change in ownership,
in the form of an amended business license application, and the same shall be
reviewed in the manner provided in §
110.07. In the event that the amended application is approved, no additional
license fee shall be due with respect to the year in which the amended
application is approved.
(Prior Code, § 113.09) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.10 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business if the premises
and building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable
ordinances and regulations of the village and the state, and any license issued
to conduct a business under this chapter may be suspended or revoked in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter in the event that the premises
and building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable
ordinances and regulations of the village and the state. Without otherwise
limiting the generality of the foregoing, no license shall be issued for any
business to be conducted within leased premises if the owner or lessor of such
premises does not possess a current and valid certificate of occupancy issued
pursuant to
Chapter 153.
(Prior Code, § 113.10) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.11 LOCATION.
   (A)   No license or permit for the operation of a business, establishment or
activity in the village shall be construed to permit its operation in more than
one location in the village. A separate license or permit shall be required for
each location. For the purposes of this chapter, the existence of a single
location shall be evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing the
principal or accessory uses:
      (1)   Shall be physically and structurally connected or shall be located
on the same lot or parcel;
      (2)   Shall be operated and managed by the same person, entity or owner;
and
      (3)   Shall be devoted to a single line of business.
   (B)   The location of any licensed business or occupation, other than for
the sale of alcoholic liquors, or the location of any permitted act may be
changed and/or physically expanded without payment of a new or separate license
fee; provided that the Community Development Department shall be given prior
notice of such intended change in or physical expansion of a licensed business
location to determine that the new location for which the license is required
conforms with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the village at its
new location. Such notice shall be provided by the filing of an amended
business license application, and the same shall be reviewed in the manner
provided in §
110.07. In the event that the amended application is approved, no additional
license fee shall be due with respect to the year in which the amended
application is approved.
(Prior Code, § 113.11) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.12 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All businesses required to be licensed hereunder shall be conducted or
operated so as not to constitute a nuisance under the provisions of this code
or the laws of the state (including the common law thereof), and no building,
vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises or part thereof shall be used, kept,
maintained or operated in connection with any business required to be licensed
hereunder so as to occasion any nuisance thereunder or so as to be dangerous to
life or detrimental to health.
   (B)   All businesses required to be licensed hereunder shall be kept in a
clean condition, free from the effluvia of sewer, drain, privy, stable or other
nuisance. Such premises shall be free from all gases, vapors, dust,
infestation, vermin, rodents, insects, garbage or refuse (except as may be
properly stored in containers for pickup/disposal), disease vectors or other
conditions which are injurious to health. Sufficient washroom facilities for
employees and customers shall be provided in accordance with all applicable
laws and ordinances and such facilities shall be properly ventilated.
   (C)   The appropriate village officials shall visit or cause to be visited
all such businesses required to be licensed hereunder within the village as
often as they shall deem necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of
this section and to have such arrangements made as may be decreed necessary for
the health and safety of the employees.
(Prior Code, § 113.12) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to any fine or other penalty which may be provided
for under this chapter, the Village Manager may, by written notice issued to a
licensee as hereinafter provided, revoke or suspend for not more than 30 days
the license of any owner or operator of a licensed business in the village for
any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, misleading or incorrect statement
or material omission contained in the initial or any renewal application or
made in carrying on the licensed business;
         (b)   Failure to pay any fees, fines, charges, penalties or other sums
due and owing to the village, or failure to perform in accordance with its
terms any obligation owed to the village whether resulting from contract or
otherwise;
         (c)   Conviction of any misdemeanor or felony violation of the
Illinois Criminal Code or of any provision of this code of ordinances as
amended by any person issued a license under this chapter, where such
conviction reasonably evidences an inability to operate the licensed business
within the village in compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
         (d)   Refusal to permit any inspection required or permitted under
this chapter or any other applicable provisions of this code, or interfering
with or obstructing any village employee engaged in performing such an
inspection;
         (e)   Conviction of any violation of any provision of any village
ordinance or state statute, without limitation, that applies in any way to the
license issued hereunder or the conduct of the licensed business pursuant
thereto;
         (f)   Failure to maintain and/or produce on demand proof of any
current inspection required by any federal, state or county agency where
current proof of such an inspection is required by applicable law as a
condition to the operation of the business in question;
         (g)   Failure to obtain and maintain in full force and effect any
license, permit or approval otherwise required by this code or other applicable
law in connection with the operation of the business in question;
         (h)   Prior failure by the applicant or licensee (or any partner,
officer, manager, member, director, principal or other affiliate thereof) to
comply with applicable provisions of this code or other applicable laws
pertaining to the operation of any business for which a license would be
required by the provisions of this chapter;
         (i)   Failure to comply with the provisions of all applicable village
ordinances or federal or state statutes that apply in any way to the license
issued hereunder or to the conduct of the license issued hereunder or to the
conduct of the licensed business pursuant thereto; or
         (j)   Existence of any fact, matter or condition demonstrating the
applicant’s inability to legally operate the licensed business in compliance
with all applicable law, ordinances and regulations.
      (2)   No licensee having had a license revoked under this chapter shall
be eligible for a new license under this chapter for the balance of the
unexpired term of the revoked license, plus one year thereafter. Any licensee
having had a license revoked or suspended shall immediately cease and terminate
all operation of the licensed business and close the premises of the licensed
business to the public upon the issuance of the revocation, and no licensee
holding a suspended license shall resume the conduct of the licensed business
or permit the entry of the public to the premises of the licensed business
prior to the expiration of the term of the suspension, except as may be
otherwise provided for herein.
   (B)   (1)   When the Village Manager becomes aware of violations of division
(A) above sufficient to support the revocation or suspension for not more than
30 days of a business license under the provisions of this section, the Village
Manager may, by written notice to the licensee, revoke or suspend for not more
than 30 days the business license of such licensee.
      (2)   Such notice shall, at a minimum:
         (a)   Set forth with reasonable specificity the factual allegations
and ordinance violations at issue;
         (b)   Contain a statement of the right of the licensee to appeal the
revocation or suspension pursuant to the provisions of §
41.20 and that such an appeal stays the effect of any business license
revocation or suspension pending the disposition of the appeal; and
         (c)   A statement that in the absence of a timely filed appeal, the
revocation or suspension at issue shall be in effect from and after the
expiration of the time established for filing an appeal by §
41.20.
      (3)   The notice may, but need not, contain a statement of terms of a
proposed settlement agreement that, if performed, will enable the licensee to
avoid revocation or suspension of the license in question. Upon receipt of such
a notice, the licensee may appeal the revocation or suspension pursuant to the
procedures set forth in §
41.20, and upon receipt of a timely filed appeal, the village shall schedule an
appeal hearing in accordance with said §
41.20. Notices of license suspension or revocation shall be deemed properly
served when sent by registered mail, return receipt requested or by nationally
recognized overnight carrier to the applicant’s most recent address disclosed
to the village within any original or renewal license application, or when
personally delivered or served upon the licensee, as evidenced by the written
affidavit of the person making such delivery or service. Appearance at any
subsequent appeal hearing shall constitute a waiver of any alleged defect in
the notice or the service thereof.
   (C)   An attorney designated by the corporate authorities shall represent
the village at the hearing. Such attorney shall present the case as set forth
in the notice to the licensee. The licensee may be represented in such hearing
by counsel, and the village and the licensee shall have the right to present
and cross examine witnesses and present documentary or other evidence. The
formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply at such a hearing.
Evidence shall only be admitted if it is of such character as might be commonly
relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their business or
affairs. For good cause shown, the Village Manager may continue the hearing
from time to time. The Village Manager shall notify the licensee of their
decision as to the revocation or suspension of the license in question, the
grounds for that decision and the process established by this chapter for
appealing any such decision adverse to the licensee within seven days after the
conclusion of such hearing. At any time prior to or during the course of the
hearing, the Village Manager and the licensee shall be authorized to enter into
a written settlement agreement specifying a course of action (which may include
the payment of fines, expenses or sums in the nature of restitution) that may
be performed by the licensee in lieu of a suspension or revocation of the
license in question.
(Prior Code, § 113.13) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 110.14 LICENSE TO BE POSTED; DESTRUCTION AND/OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in
the village to keep their license in a prominent place on the premises used for
such business at all times.
   (B)   No person shall destroy, obliterate, take, remove or carry away
without the consent of the owner any license, certificate, plate or stroke
which has been issued by the village except when such license, certificate,
plate or sticker has been discontinued or the licensed premises have been
abandoned. Nothing herein shall prevent the Village President or their duly
authorized representative from removing any license, certificate, plate or
sticker from the possession of a former licensee, their premises, any vehicle
or any machine when said license has been revoked under this provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.14) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.15 LICENSE PERIOD.
   The business license will be valid for a one year period commencing on
January 1 of every year and expiring on December 31 of the same year. The
license must be purchased within the first 30 days of January or fines and
penalties shall be enforced beginning on February 1. New businesses locating
within the community shall have a 30-day grace period from the date of the
opening of the business to obtain the business license.
(Prior Code, § 113.15) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
110.01 through
110.15, unless otherwise provided, shall be fined not less than $150 nor more
than $750 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation operating without a valid business
license shall be fined not less than $250 or more than $1,000 for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   Any person, firm or corporation whose license is suspended or
revoked under the terms of §§
110.01 through
110.15 or who operates without a valid business license issued by the village
may have their operations suspended and the location of the business closed to
the public.
      (4)   In addition to the penalties provided for in §§
110.01 through
110.15, the village shall also be authorized to file actions for injunctive or
equitable relief to enforce the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.15.
(Prior Code, § 113.99) (Ord. 21-1695, passed 4-7-2021)
CHAPTER 111: COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permit required
   
111.03   Fee for permit
   
111.04   Regulation of game machine placement
   
111.05   Licenses required
   
111.06   Fee for license
   
111.07   Penalty for unlicensed game machines
   
111.08   Responsibility of distributor and machine owner for compliance
   
111.09   License required for business operating a game room, amusement center
or arcade
   
111.10   Application for license
   
111.11   Investigation; issuance of license
   
111.12   License fee for operating a game room, amusement center or arcade
   
111.13   Regulations for operating a game room, amusement center or arcade
   
111.14   Hours of operation
   
111.15   Suspension, revocation of license
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCADE, GAME ROOM, and AMUSEMENT CENTER. Any establishment in which the
primary source of income or revenue is from the operation of game machines.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICES. Any machine which upon the insertion of a coin, token,
disc, slug or upon the payment of any fee, including rental fee, or in exchange
for the payment of any other form of consideration by any means whatsoever
operates or may be operated by the public generally as a game or contest of
skill or amusement of any kind or description, and which does not provide for
any tangible payoff, reward or return of token or fee to the player. The term
shall mean and include any pinball, ball table or marble machine or any other
similar type of game, machine or table in which any ball, sphere, missile, arm,
vehicle, crane, rod or plunger is struck, released, controlled or manipulated
for the purpose of amusement or skill, or an electrical machine or game
controlled or manipulated for the purpose of amusement or skill. The term also
means and includes any billiard, pool table or bumper pool table, the use or
operation of which is dependent upon the use of a coin to obtain balls, or upon
the payment of any other form of consideration by any means whatsoever. This
chapter shall not apply to any coin-operated amusement device which is 25 years
of age or older, nor to any VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL as defined in §
138.01.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, company or corporation that owns any number of and
installs amusement devices or game machines in an establishment owned by
another company, whether such machines are operated by the use of a coin or
token, or by the payment of any other form of consideration by any means
whatsoever.
   GAME MACHINE or AMUSEMENT MACHINE. All machines, mechanical or video, whose
sole purpose is to provide entertainment, test the skill of or otherwise
require a degree of skill by the user or users to operate and in no way vend
food, cigarettes, soft drinks, coffee or candy, whether such machines are
operated by the use of a coin or token, or by the payment of any other form of
consideration by any means whatsoever.
   GAME MACHINE LOCATION. Businesses in which are located game machines but do
not derive their major source of income from the operation of the machines.
   MACHINE OWNER. Any person, company or corporation that owns any number of
and installs vending, amusement or game machines in an establishment owned or
operated by the machine owner, whether such machines are operated by the use of
a coin or token, or by the payment of any other form of consideration by any
means whatsoever.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association which owns
any amusement device or game machine; the person, firm, partnership,
corporation or association in whose place of business any such device is placed
for use by the public; and the person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association having control over such device.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 850, passed 5-18-1983; Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-
1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-3-1998; Ord. 12-1021, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 111.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Distributors and machine owners of game machines and amusement devices
shall obtain an annual permit by making application with the Village Clerk
prior to soliciting business or placing machines within the corporate limits of
the village. The permit shall be valid until December 31 of the current year
regardless of the month purchased.
   (B)   (1)   Game machines or amusement devices found placed in game machine
locations or arcades/game rooms by a distributor or machine owner not
possessing a permit shall be ordered removed within 24 hours.
      (2)   If not removed in this period, a ticket will be issued for each
machine for each day that it remains on site and the violating distributor or
machine owner shall forfeit their right to apply for a permit until the
following calendar year or 12 months, whichever is longer.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998)
§ 111.03 FEE FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The fee for the distributors permit shall be $2,000 per year and shall
be non-refundable. First time applicants shall pay a fee that will be prorated
in $167 increments from the month purchased until December of the year
purchased.
   (B)   The annual permit fee required by this chapter, payable by the
business owner, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Two hundred dollars for owners of one to five vending, amusement or
game machines;
      (2)   Five hundred dollars for owners of six to ten vending, amusement or
game machines;
      (3)   One thousand dollars for owners of ten to 15 vending, amusement or
game machines; and
      (4)   Two thousand five hundred dollars for owners of more than 15
vending, amusement or game machines.
   (C)   First time recipients of a machine owner’s permit hereunder may pay a
prorated annual fee as determined by the village for the initial permit.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998; Ord. 05-0264, passed 4-6-2005; Ord. 05-0336, passed 11-2-2005)
§ 111.04 REGULATION OF GAME MACHINE PLACEMENT.
   There shall be no restriction on the number of game machines or amusement
devices that may be placed in any game machine location, arcade/game room or
amusement center. However, every machine or device placed shall display a
sticker identifying the operator as well as a village license sticker.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   It shall be the responsibility of the distributor or machine/device owner to
purchase the licenses for each machine/device prior to its placement. Licenses
may be transferred from a machine removed from the premises and replaced. There
will be no refund for licenses issued and not used. Licenses shall be renewable
by January 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 FEE FOR LICENSE.
   The license fee for game machines or amusement devices placed in any one
game machine location by one or more distributor is $25 per machine or device.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998)
§ 111.07 PENALTY FOR UNLICENSED GAME MACHINES.
   Any machine or device found to be unlicensed or that does not have a current
or valid license displayed will be required to be licensed or display a valid
license within 48 hours of notification by the village. Failure to comply will
cause immediate revocation of the distributor’s or machine/device owner’s
permit and all machines or devices placed by that distributor or machine or
device owner in all locations in the village shall be ordered by registered
letter to be removed within 72 hours of receipt of the notification. Failure to
comply with the removal order shall cause the machines or devices to be
unplugged and the machines or devices rendered inoperable by removal of the
electric plug providing power to the machine.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998)
§ 111.08 RESPONSIBILITY OF DISTRIBUTOR AND MACHINE OWNER FOR COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the distributor and game machine or
amusement device owner to assure that all applicable codes regarding the use,
operation and installation of game machines and amusement devices installed by
them are complied with and that failure could result in the penalty as
described in the penalty section of the applicable ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR BUSINESS OPERATING A GAME ROOM, AMUSEMENT CENTER
OR ARCADE.
   No person shall engage in the business of keeping or providing any game
room, amusement center or arcade, as defined in §
111.01, without first having obtained a license from the Village Clerk. Any
premises requiring a license as provided in this section may operate only
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 2:01 a.m. the following day.
(Prior Code, § 111.09) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998; Ord. 83-01, passed 8-15-2001)
§ 111.10 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a game room, amusement center, arcade
or business establishment of a like kind and nature shall make written
application in duplicate for a license for the operation thereof to the Village
Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a corporation:
         (a)   Corporate name and address;
         (b)   Names, dates of birth and addresses of corporate officers and
directors;
         (c)   Statement of the principal kind of business in which the
corporation engages;
         (d)   Statement of whether the corporate business will be conducted by
a manager, and the name, address and authority of any manager or agent;
         (e)   The name and address of the resident manager or agent;
         (f)   Names and addresses of any persons, firms and organizations
owning of record 5% or more of the corporation stock;
         (g)   Statement of whether any officer, manager, director or
shareholder owning 5% or more of the stock of the corporation has ever been
convicted of a felony or has ever forfeited an appearance bond on a felony
charge;
         (h)   The location of the place of business and the place where the
game machine and amusement device is to be kept or displayed; and
         (i)   Statement or personal history of the manager or agent conducting
business for the corporation.
      (2)   If the applicant is an individual or partnership:
         (a)   Name and address and date of birth of the applicant;
         (b)   Location of place of business;
         (c)   Principal kind of business in which the individual or
partnership engages;
         (d)   Statement of whether the business will be conducted by a manager
or agent, and the name and address and date of birth of the manager or agent;
         (e)   If the applicant resides outside the corporate limits of the
village, the name and address of the resident agent;
         (f)   The place where game machines or amusement devices are to be
displayed and a description of the devices or machines;
         (g)   Statement of personal history of the manager or agent conducting
business for the applicant; and
         (h)   Statement of whether the manager or agent has ever been
convicted of a felony or has ever forfeited an appearance bond on a felony
charge.
(Prior Code, § 111.10) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998)
§ 111.11 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk, the Chief of Police and the Building Inspector of
the village shall review the information contained in the application and shall
determine if the premises designated by the applicant as the location of the
business complies with the provisions of the zoning code of the village.
   (B)   The report of such investigation and determination, together with a
copy of the application, shall be transmitted to the Village President.
   (C)   Upon the compliance by the applicant with the requirements of this
chapter and the zoning code of the village, the Village President shall
instruct the Village Clerk to issue the license and, upon payment by the
applicant of the license fee required under this chapter, the license shall be
issued.
(Prior Code, § 111.11) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993)
§ 111.12 LICENSE FEE FOR OPERATING A GAME ROOM, AMUSEMENT CENTER OR ARCADE.
   The fee for the license required by §
111.09 for engaging in business of operating a game room, amusement center,
arcade or business establishment of a like kind and nature shall be $750 per
year and shall be valid January 1 to December 31.
(Prior Code, § 111.12) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998)
§ 111.13 REGULATIONS FOR OPERATING A GAME ROOM, AMUSEMENT CENTER OR ARCADE.
   In addition to any other condition or regulation contained in this chapter
or in the statutes of the state, the following conditions and regulations shall
be applicable to and shall govern and control all businesses licensed to
operate game rooms, amusement centers, arcades and business establishments of
the like kind and nature for public use within the village.
   (A)   The walls, ceiling or floor or any combination thereof of the building
of structure or portion thereof, containing the devices shall be insulated or
otherwise constructed so that no noise or vibration that is detectable without
the aid of any mechanical device or instrument will be allowed beyond the outer
perimeter of the licensed premises.
   (B)   All amusement devices or game machines must be maintained in an
enclosed area. Any person who shall be required to obtain a premises license
under this chapter on the effective date of this chapter shall have three years
from the effective date of this chapter in which to comply with this division
(B).
   (C)   No person conducting or operating a game room, amusement center,
arcade or the like shall allow any screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or
other obstructions to be placed between the front of the premises and rear wall
of the room. An unobstructed view of the entire interior must be maintained at
all times for any person entering therein. This section shall not be construed
to preclude the maintenance of washroom or toilet facilities or the maintenance
of closets for storage purposes only.
   (D)   Trash receptacles shall be inside the game room, arcade or amusement
center and shall be emptied at regular intervals.
   (E)   A sign shall be conspicuously posted within the premises setting forth
the village’s curfew hours. At the time of curfew, the owner, agent or employee
of the game room shall announce that no individual in violation of the curfew
hours shall remain on the premises.
   (F)   The person operating the game room shall post a sign in a conspicuous
location which shall state as follows: “No loitering upon the premises.”
   (G)   (1)   No foodstuffs, soft drinks, alcoholic beverages, tobacco
products or other products of any nature or kind whatsoever shall be sold or
offered for sale in the premises of any establishment licensed as or required
to be licensed as a game room, arcade or amusement center under the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   The foregoing prohibition shall not apply to:
         (a)   Any amusement center licensed thereunder that primarily and
predominantly offers and provides billiard or pool tables for use by customers
or patrons thereof, and any such amusement center shall be permitted upon
obtaining the necessary County Health Department permits to serve food and
beverages at retail to the customers and patrons thereof, and to sell at retail
such other products as may be ancillary to the playing of games of pool or
billiards; provided, however, that nothing in this exception hereby created
shall permit any such establishment to serve alcoholic beverages or to be
eligible under the ordinances of the village to apply for or receive a license
to serve alcoholic beverages, other than a Class L liquor license, where such
Class L liquor license is used to facilitate the hosting and conduct of
tournaments, special events, exhibitions or billiard or pool competitions; and
         (b)   Prevent the issuance of any liquor license to any otherwise
qualified person or entity that owns and/or operates an amusement center as one
component of a multipurpose entertainment or recreation business located within
a building having a total usable area, as determined by village staff, of not
less than 30,000 square feet, and where the construction of such building and/
or establishment of a multipurpose entertainment or recreation business as the
use thereof has been approved by the Village Board as a planned unit
development under the pertinent provisions of the village zoning ordinance.
   (H)   No amusement device or game machine shall be used for purposes of or
in connection with the wagering of money, goods or merchandise upon the outcome
of the use or manipulation of the device or machine or otherwise used for the
purpose of gambling.
   (I)   At all times during the hours of operation of the licensed premises,
there shall be present a manager or other employee of the licensee, at least
one of whom shall be not less than 21 years of age, for the purpose of
providing adequate control and supervision of the licensed premises and use of
the amusement device and game machines present therein.
(Prior Code, § 111.13) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998; Ord. 82-01, passed 8-1-2001; Ord. 0067-02, passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 05-
0264, passed 4-6-2005)
§ 111.14 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Any premises requiring a license as provided in §
111.09 may operate only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m., Sunday
through Saturday, and between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. on Saturday
and Sunday. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, the hours
of operation established by this section shall be reviewed not less frequently
than semiannually by the Village Board of Trustees and shall be restricted,
altered or amended from time to time as the Board deems fit.
(Prior Code, § 111.14) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 96-01, passed 9-5-
2001)
§ 111.15 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Nothing in the provisions of this chapter shall preclude the right of the
Village President to suspend or revoke the license of the licensee, as follows.
   (A)   The Village President may temporarily suspend any license issued under
the terms of this chapter when he has reason to believe that the continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community or create an eminent danger of violation of applicable
laws.
      (1)   In such case, they may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating reasons for the determination, and without notice of hearing, order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven days; provided that the
licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard in a public hearing during
the seven-day period.
      (2)   If the licensee is also engaged in the conduct of other businesses
on the licensed premises, the order shall not be applicable to the other
businesses.
   (B)   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended by
the Village President after notice and hearing as hereinafter provided for any
of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license;
      (2)   Any failure or refusal by the licensee to comply with the terms of
this chapter, or if the licensee has failed or refused to comply with other
laws applicable to the licensee’s business or has been convicted by a court of
competent jurisdiction of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or manager of any of the following
within the past three years:
         (a)   Keeping a place of prostitution;
         (b)   Pimping;
         (c)   Pandering;
         (d)   Soliciting for a prostitute;
         (e)   Gambling;
         (f)   Keeping a gambling place;
         (g)   Any offenses involving bodily harm; or
         (h)   Any felony convictions.
      (4)   Failure of the licensee to pay any fine or penalty due and owing to
the village; and
      (5)   The occurrence of two or more disturbances at the licensed premises
or two or more incidents involving bodily harm within a 90-day period, and
providing that the Village President finds, upon recommendation of the Chief of
Police, that the disturbances or incidents involving bodily harm create a
public nuisance by endangering the health, safety and welfare of the residents
of the village.
   (C)   Notice of the hearing for the revocation or suspension of the license
shall be given in writing setting forth the grounds of the complaint and the
time and place of hearing. The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the
licensee or his resident manager at their last known address at least five days
prior to the date set for the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by the
Village President who shall render their decision in writing within ten days
after the date of the hearing.
   (D)   The licensee at the hearing may be represented by counsel and may
cross-examine witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 111.15) (Ord. 2206-93, passed 3-17-1993; Ord. 2576-98, passed 6-
3-1998)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.001   Definitions
   
112.002   Compliance by licensee
   
112.003   Sanitation
   
112.004   Employees; disease
   
112.005   Disorderly conduct prohibited
   
112.006   Prohibited conduct on the premises of liquor dispensing establishment
   
112.007   Hours of sale
   
112.008   Closing regulations
   
112.009   Public property and park sites designated for alcohol service and
consumption
   
112.010   Permitted “happy hours” and meal packages, party packages and
entertainment packages
Minors
   
112.025   Sale or delivery to minors prohibited
   
112.026   Warning sign to minors
   
112.027   Purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquors
   
112.028   Identification required
   
112.029   Misrepresentation of age
   
112.030   Purchase or acceptance of gift, consumption prohibited; exceptions
   
112.031   Minor employees
   
112.032   Applicability of state law
   
112.033   Prohibiting the entry of non-age persons on the premises of liquor
establishments
   
112.034   Non-age persons must be accompanied by parent or legal guardian
   
112.035   Capacity of containers regulated
Retail Licenses
   
112.050   Required
   
112.051   Application
   
112.052   Limitations of issuance
   
112.053   Classes of licenses
   
112.054   License endorsements
   
112.055   Number of licenses
   
112.056   Licenses in annexed territory
   
112.057   Duration of license
   
112.058   Disposition of fees
   
112.059   Selling without a license
   
112.060   Record of licenses
   
112.061   Transferability; privilege only
   
112.062   Renewal
   
112.063   Transfer of location
   
112.064   License valid only in specific premises
   
112.065   Limitations on locations of retail premises
   
112.066   Revocation
   
112.067   Responsible alcohol service
Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
112.080   Designation
   
112.081   Powers and duties
   
112.082   Compensation
   
112.083   Appointment of deputies
   
112.084   Enforcement authority
   
112.085   License records; notice of issuance or revocation
 
   
112.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 112.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes the four varieties of liquor defined in this
section, ALCOHOL, SPIRITS, WINE and BEER, and every liquid or solid, patented
or not, containing ALCOHOL, SPIRITS or WINE or BEER, and capable of being
consumed as a beverage by human beings. The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in
accordance with acts of the Congress of the United States and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing not more 0.5% of
alcohol by volume. Nor shall the provisions of this chapter apply to flavoring
extracts, syrups or medicinal, mechanical, scientific, culinary or toilet
preparations, or food products unfit for beverage purposes. The provisions of
this chapter shall not be construed to exclude or not apply to alcoholic liquor
used in the manufacture, preparation or compounding of such products. None of
the provisions of this chapter shall apply to wine intended for use and used by
any church or religious organization for sacramental purposes. ALCOHOLIC
LIQUOR, as used in this chapter, shall also mean and include “infusions,” as
defined in the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/6-22.5, subject to the
requirements set forth in said § 6-22.5 pertaining to the preparation and
dispensation thereof.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, malt beverages, porter and
the like.
   ENTERTAINMENT. The offering or permitting of any amusement feature,
including, but not limited to, music, vaudeville, singing, acting, dancing or
contests, whether by personal performance, or instrumental or mechanical
reproduction facilitated by persons present within a licensed premises for the
express purpose of providing or assisting in the provision of any of the
foregoing. The terms ENTERTAINMENT or LIVE ENTERTAINMENT as used in this
chapter shall not be construed to include radio, television, the use of
amusement devices or game machines operated or activated by payment, the
provision or use of video gaming terminals licensed and operated in compliance
with the provisions of the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.), the
provisions of applicable regulations promulgated from time to time by the State
Gaming Board, and the applicable provisions of this code, including, but not
limited to, the provisions of this chapter and §§
110.01 through
110.15 and
157, or the provision of electronically reproduced music without facilitation
or assistance by persons present within the licensed premises expressly for
such purpose.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of guests and having one or more
public dining rooms where meals are served to guests, the sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building in
connection therewith and the building or structure being provided with adequate
and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served and
without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided with adequate and
sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and employing a
sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable
food for its guests.
   RETAIL SALE. The sale for use or consumption, and not for resale in any
form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and including such liquors when rectified,
blended or otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Shall have the meaning set forth in §
138.01.
   WINE. Any alcohol beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-
1998; Ord. 12-1021, passed 12-19-2012; Ord. 15-1207, passed 8-5-2015)
§ 112.002 COMPLIANCE BY LICENSEE.
   A licensee under this subchapter and their agents, officers and employees
shall at all times be personally responsible for the proper operation of the
business, including compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the
observation of all laws and regulations applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.003 SANITATION.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of liquor for retail sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the provisions of this
code and other ordinances of the village regulating the condition of premises
used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption, and pursuant to
Ord. 328, with all ordinances and regulations of the County Health Department
pertaining to health and sanitation in premises licensed to sell alcohol or
alcoholic liquor.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-
1998) Penalty, see §
112.999
Cross-reference:
   Restaurants, see Chapter §§
121.35 through
121.39 and
121.50 through
121.62
§ 112.004 EMPLOYEES; DISEASE.
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease. It shall be unlawful for any person
who is afflicted with or a carrier of any disease to work in or about any
premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation or distribution
of liquor.
(Prior Code, § 112.04) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.005 DISORDERLY CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   No person licensed under this chapter shall permit disorderly conduct or
disturbance of the peace in the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 112.06) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.006 PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON THE PREMISES OF LIQUOR DISPENSING
ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   No licensee or its agents or employees shall permit any person, while
on the premises and in public view, to expose their genitals, pubic hair,
buttocks, anus or anal cleft; or employ any device or covering which is
intended to give the appearance of or simulate their genitals, pubic hair,
buttocks, anus or anal cleft; or appear without a fully opaque covering of
their genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus or anal cleft. Nor shall they permit
any female person, while on the premises and in public view, to expose that
area of the human breast below the top of the areola; or employ any device or
covering which is intended to give the appearance of or simulate that area of
the human breast below the top of the areola; or appear without a fully opaque
covering of that area of the human breast below the top of the areola.
   (B)   No person, while on the premises and in public view, shall engage in
the following conduct: expose their genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus or
anal cleft; or employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate their genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus or anal
cleft; or appear without a fully opaque covering of their genitals, pubic hair,
buttocks, anus or anal cleft. No female person, while on the premises and in
public view, shall engage in the following conduct: expose that area of the
human breast below the top of the areola; or employ any device or covering
which is intended to give the appearance of or simulate that area of the human
breast below the top of the areola; or appear without a fully opaque covering
of that area of the human breast below the top of the areola.
(Prior Code, § 112.07) (Ord. 2043-89, passed 12-20-1989) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.007 HOURS OF SALE.
   Hours of sale for all licensed liquor dispensing establishments within the
corporate limits of the village shall be 12:00 midnight until 2:00 a.m., and
from 7:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight, except that on Sundays, the hours of sale
for all licensed liquor dispensing establishments with the corporate limits of
the village shall be 12:00 midnight until 2:00 a.m., and from 9:00 a.m. until
12:00 midnight.
(Prior Code, § 112.08) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 436, passed 12-18-1974;
Ord. 476, passed 11-19-1975; Ord. 570, passed 10-19-1977; Ord. 2026-89, passed
9-20-1989; Ord. 2034-89, passed 9-20-1989; Ord. 2249-94, passed 1-5-1994; Ord.
2475-97, passed 5-7-1997; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-1998; Ord. 2637-99, passed
3-15-1999; Ord. 2703-99, passed 10-6-1999; Ord. 19-1550, passed 3-20-2019)
Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.008 CLOSING REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to admit the public to any
premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail, during the hours
when the sale of liquor is prohibited. However, in the case of restaurants and
hotels, such establishments may be kept open during these hours, but no
alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed by the public during such hours.
(Prior Code, § 112.09) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.009 PUBLIC PROPERTY AND PARK SITES DESIGNATED FOR ALCOHOL SERVICE AND
CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   The Village Board designates the following park sites as permitted
locations designated for alcohol service and consumption in connection with
events to be held at such park sites, subject to the prior issuance of a permit
for the event. Permits may be subject to such conditions as may be from time to
time approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to promote and ensure
compliance with all applicable ordinances of the village and laws of the state.
Permit applicants shall be required to execute a written agreement accepting
such conditions prior to the issuance of the permit. Permits shall be available
upon such charges as may be determined from time to time by the Recreation
Department, which charges may include the posting of a reasonable security
deposit:
      (1)   Lake Strini Pavilion;
      (2)   O’Hara Woods - Pete Capone Pavilion; and
      (3)   Village Park - Nancy Aldridge Memorial Pavilion.
   (B)   In addition to any conditions imposed from time to time by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner on the service and consumption of alcoholic
beverages at the above-mentioned locations in connection with permits for
events at which such service and consumption is contemplated, the service and
consumption of alcoholic beverages at such permit events shall be subject to
the following requirements.
      (1)   No bottles or glass containers are permitted.
      (2)   Alcohol must be served in plastic cups or cans.
      (3)   Only beer and wine are permitted to be served or consumed.
      (4)   The sale of alcohol in exchange for any form of consideration is
prohibited.
      (5)   All posted park rules and otherwise applicable ordinances and laws
must be followed.
      (6)   Alcohol must be contained within the pavilion area of the park for
which the permit is issued.
      (7)   The required security deposit will be forfeited if the grounds are
not cleaned properly after the event.
   (C)   The village further designates the following village-owned locations
as eligible locations for the service and consumption of alcoholic beverages
pursuant to a Class H special event license, subject to all applicable
provisions of this chapter and this code, and further subject to the prior
issuance of a permit by the village to use the location in question for the
special event. Permits and Class H special event licenses may be subject to
such conditions as may be from time to time approved by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner to promote and ensure compliance with all applicable
ordinances of the village and laws of the state. Permit and Class H license
applicants shall be required to execute a written agreement accepting such
conditions prior to the issuance of the permit:
      (1)   Deer Crossing Park Pavilion;
      (2)   Village Park - Nancy Aldridge Memorial Pavilion; and
      (3)   Such location as from time to time designated for the conduct of
Romeofest.
   (D)   The village further designates the following village-owned locations
as locations from which the village or its authorized agents or contracted
parties may serve beverages in connection with events conducted by the village
at such locations to invitees of the village for consumption so long as no
direct or indirect charge is made for such service, all as permitted by §
112.059:
      (1)   Deer Crossing Park Pavilion;
      (2)   Romeoville Recreation Center;
      (3)   Village Hall;
      (4)   Village Park - Nancy Aldridge Memorial Pavilion; and
      (5)   Romeoville Athletic and Event Center.
   (E)   The village further designates the following village-owned locations
as locations from which the village, its authorized agents, invitees or users,
or contracted parties may serve alcoholic beverages with or without direct or
indirect charge in connection with events conducted, sponsored or to be
promoted by the village, where the event in question occurs not more frequently
than annually, has a duration not in excess of three days and is jointly
conducted, sponsored and/or promoted by the village and a not for profit
corporation holding 501(c)(3) tax exempt status that has been incorporated
under applicable law for not less than 20 consecutive years, pursuant to a duly
issued Class H license:
      (1)   Deer Crossing Park Pavilion;
      (2)   Village Park - Nancy Aldridge Memorial Pavilion; and
      (3)   Romeoville Athletic and Event Center.
   (F)   The village further designates the following village-owned locations
as eligible locations for the service and consumption of alcoholic beverages,
pursuant to a Class H-l craft beer event license, subject to all applicable
provisions of this chapter and this code, and further subject to the prior
issuance of a permit by the village to use the location in question for the
special event. Permits and Class H-l craft beer event licenses may be subject
to such conditions as may be from time to time approved by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner to promote and ensure compliance with all applicable
ordinances of the village and laws of the state. Permit and Class H-l license
applicants shall be required to execute a written agreement accepting such
conditions prior to the issuance of the permit:
      (1)   Deer Crossing Park Pavilion; and
      (2)   Romeoville Athletic and Event Center.
   (G)   The village further designates the following village-owned locations
or relevant portions thereof as permitted locations for the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages pursuant to the provisions of a duly issued
Class B, C or D license, subject to all otherwise applicable ordinances of the
village and laws of the state, and provided further that the proposed licensee
shall first obtain a lease or beneficial ownership of such location of some
relevant portion thereof prior to or as a condition of the issuance of such
Class B, C or D license and for the entire term of such proposed license:
Romeoville Athletic and Event Center.
(Prior Code, § 112.10) (Ord. 2558-98, passed 5-6-1998; Ord. 14-1114, passed 4-
16-2014; Ord. 15-1183, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 112.010 PERMITTED “HAPPY HOURS” AND MEAL PACKAGES, PARTY PACKAGES AND
ENTERTAINMENT PACKAGES.
   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, all licensees under
this chapter, during such time as their licenses shall remain in good standing,
shall be permitted to engage in the retail sale of alcoholic beverages within
the village in the manner and to the extent permitted by the provisions of the
Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/6-28.5, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 112.11) (Ord. 15-1207, passed 8-5-2015)
**** MINORS ****
§ 112.025 SALE OR DELIVERY TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No alcohol or alcoholic liquor shall be sold or delivered or otherwise
furnished to minors or to any intoxicated person or person reasonably appearing
to be intoxicated by any person licensed to sell alcohol or alcoholic liquor
within the village, by any employee or agent thereof or by any other person
whatsoever, except as may otherwise be permitted under the ordinances of the
village.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, the term MINOR shall mean any natural person
under 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 112.15) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-
1998) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.026 WARNING SIGN TO MINORS.
   Every tavern or other place in the village where alcohol or alcoholic liquor
is sold for beverage purposes shall display in a prominent place a printed card
which shall read as follows:
Warning to Minors
You are subject to a fine of up to $750.00 under the ordinances of the Village
of Romeoville if you purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
(Prior Code, § 112.16) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-
1998) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.027 PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase or
obtain any alcoholic liquors in any tavern or other place in the village where
alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Prior Code, § 112.17) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 376, passed 10-3-1973;
Ord. 708, passed 1-16-1980) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.028 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter or their agents or
employees, who believe or have reason to believe that a sale or delivery of any
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the nonage of the purchaser or
recipient, to make the sale or delivery without demanding the presentation of
some form of positive identification containing proof of age issued by a public
officer in the performance of their official duties, which form of positive
identification shall include a photographic depiction of the purchaser or
recipient.
(Prior Code, § 112.18) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 437, passed 12-18-1974;
Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-1998) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.029 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   (A)   Misrepresentation of age by a minor. It is unlawful for any persons
under the age of 21 years to misrepresent their age for the purpose of
purchasing or receiving alcoholic liquors in any tavern or other place in the
village where alcoholic liquors is sold.
   (B)   Misrepresentation of age by others. It is unlawful for any person to
knowingly and falsely represent to any licensed retail liquor dealer that any
minor is of full legal age for the purpose of inducing the licensed retail
liquor dealer to sell or furnish any intoxicating liquor to the minor.
(Prior Code, § 112.19) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 377, passed 10-3-1973;
Ord. 709, passed 1-16-1980) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.030 PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT, CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic
liquor or have alcoholic liquor in their possession. Any person so purchasing,
accepting delivery of or having possession of alcoholic liquor shall be in
violation of this section.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall consume alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   The possession and dispensing or consumption by a minor of alcoholic
liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parents
or parent of the minor in the privacy of a home is not prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 112.20) (Ord. 430, passed 12-4-1974; Ord. 710, passed 1-16-1980)
Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.031 MINOR EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No licensee under this chapter shall employ or permit any person under
the age of 21 years to attend any bar, or to draw, pour, mix, deliver or sell
any alcoholic liquor in or about any premises used for retail sale of alcoholic
liquor.
   (B)   A person 18 years of age or older may be employed as a waitress or
waiter for the purpose of delivering and selling alcoholic liquor within the
licensee’s premises.
   (C)   This section does not apply to persons 16 years of age or older who
are employed by a licensee under this chapter who sells alcoholic liquor by
package goods only when the employee’s activities are restricted to performing
duties as a stock person or the equivalent, and who is under the direct
supervision and control of the person authorized to sell alcoholic beverages
under this chapter. In no event shall the duties of the stock person include
the authority to sell alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 112.21) (Ord. 489, passed 5-5-1976; Ord. 711, passed 2-6-1980)
Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.032 APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW.
   No provision contained in this subchapter shall excuse or relieve any
licensed retail liquor dealer from the penalties imposed under this chapter or
under the statutes of the state in relation to sale of liquor to minors.
(Prior Code, § 112.22) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964)
§ 112.033 PROHIBITING THE ENTRY OF NON-AGE PERSONS ON THE PREMISES OF LIQUOR
ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   No licensee or their agents or employees shall allow any person under
the age of 21 years unaccompanied by a parent or legal guardian to enter any
liquor dispensing establishment or premises unless the licensee shall:
      (1)   Possess and maintain a valid restaurant license from the village
pursuant to §§
121.35 through
121.39 and
121.50 through
121.62 that is applicable to the liquor dispensing premises; provided, however,
that the foregoing shall only apply to establishments or businesses actively,
primarily and predominantly intended to be and operated as restaurants, and
where the dispensing of liquor is merely incidental thereto; or
      (2)   Be the owner and/or operator of a multipurpose entertainment,
amusement or recreation business located within a building having a total
usable area, as determined by village staff, of not less than 30,000 square
feet, actively, primarily and predominantly intended and operated as a provider
of entertainment, amusement or recreational services, where the dispensing or
liquor is merely incidental to the provision of entertainment, amusement or
recreational services, and where the establishment of such business and/or the
construction of the building housing such business has been approved by the
Village Board as a planned unit development under the provisions of the village
zoning ordinance. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in no event
shall any licensee allow any person under the age of 21 years to sit, stand or
be present at any bar or service bar or other area dedicated primarily and
predominantly to the service of liquor.
(Prior Code, § 112.23) (Ord. 2143-91, passed 12-18-1991; Ord. 05-0265, passed
4-6-2005) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.034 NON-AGE PERSONS MUST BE ACCOMPANIED BY PARENT OR LEGAL GUARDIAN.
   No person who has not attained the age of 21 years shall enter or remain in
a liquor dispensing establishment unless they are accompanied by their parent
or legal guardian and the parent or legal guardian has attained the age of 21
years. In any case, no person who has not attained the age of 21 years may sit
or stand at a bar where liquor is being served.
(Prior Code, § 112.24) (Ord. 2143-91, passed 12-18-1991) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.035 CAPACITY OF CONTAINERS REGULATED.
   No licensee under this chapter or its agent, servant or employee shall sell
or permit to be sold at retail any packaged alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption at a locale other than the licensed premises in any container that
has a capacity of less than 51 milliliters, is labeled by the manufacturer as
containing less than 51 milliliters or that actually contains less than 51
milliliters of alcoholic liquor, unless the same shall only be kept in
locations within the licensed premises that are inaccessible to or out of reach
of customers or patrons of the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 112.25) (Ord. 06-0471, passed 11-1-2006; Ord. 09-0776, passed 8-
5-2009) Penalty, see §
112.999
**** RETAIL LICENSES ****
§ 112.050 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license.
(Prior Code, § 112.30) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.051 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Application for a license required by §
112.050 shall be made to the Local Liquor Commissioner, in writing and signed
by the applicant, if an individual, or a duly authorized agent thereof, if a
corporation, verified by oath or affidavit presented not less than ten days
prior to the date issuance is desired.
      (2)   The application shall contain the following information and
statements:
         (a)   The name, age and address of the applicant if the applicant is a
natural person, the names and addresses of all general partners and all limited
partners owning 5% or more of the aggregate limited partnership interests if
the applicant is a partnership, or, if the applicant is a corporation, the
names and addresses of all directors, officers and persons owning five percent
or more of the shares of stock issued by the corporation as of the date of the
application, together with the date of incorporation and a statement of the
objects and purposes for which the corporation was incorporated, and regardless
of whether the applicant is a natural person or an entity, a statement of the
class of license for which the application is submitted, together with all
information required by the ordinances of the village to be furnished in
support of an application for that class of license;
         (b)   The citizenship of the applicant, their place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of their naturalization;
         (c)   The character of business of the applicant, and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
         (d)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of
that character, or in case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
         (e)   The location and description of the premises or places of
business which are to be operated under the license, together with documents or
other evidence demonstrating that the applicant beneficially owns the premises
or places of business for which a license is sought, or that the applicant has
a lease of the premises or places for which a license is sought for the entire
period of time covered by the license;
         (f)   A statement whether the applicant has made similar applications
for a similar other license on premises other than described in this
application, and the disposition of the application;
         (g)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, the laws of this state or the ordinances of the
village;
         (h)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof,
or by the federal government, has been revoked and the reasons therefor; and
         (i)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws
of the state or of the United States, or any ordinance of the village in the
conduct of their place of business.
   (B)   New licensee applicants shall pay a one-time, non-refundable
application fee of $500 to cover administrative cost of processing the
application. Said fee shall be in the form of a certified check or cashiers
check and shall be promptly turned over to the Village Treasurer.
   (C)   Applicants seeking the issuance of video gaming terminal endorsements
under the applicable provisions of §
112.054 in connection with the issuance of a class of license under this
chapter eligible to receive such endorsements shall additionally provide the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner with copies of all documentation issued by
the state and the State Gaming Board evidencing the valid and current licensure
of all video gaming terminals for which endorsements are sought by the
applicant, together with proof of a zoning classification (including any
required special use permit) permitting the operation and use of video gaming
terminals within the proposed licensed premises. The provision of documentation
conforming to the requirements of the preceding sentence shall be a condition
to the issuance of any video gaming terminal endorsements under §
112.054.
(Prior Code, § 112.31) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 2249-94, passed 1-5-
1994; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-1998; Ord. 12-1021, passed 12-19-2012)
§ 112.052 LIMITATIONS OF ISSUANCE.
   No license or license endorsement required under the provisions of this
chapter shall be issued to any person, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, organization or other entity that is ineligible to receive a
license from the State Commission or from the village pursuant to the
provisions of §§ 5/6-2, 5/6-11, 5/6-12 and 5/6-25 of the State Liquor Control
Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5/6-2, 5/6-11, 5/6-12 and 5/6-25, respectively, or
any successor provisions thereto, as the same may be amended from time to time.
In addition, no license or license endorsement required under the provisions of
this chapter shall be issued to any person, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, organization or other entity that does not, as of the time
of the issuance of the license or license endorsement, possess all permits and
approvals otherwise required under the applicable ordinances of the village for
the conduct of the licensed business contemplated by the applicant, including,
but not limited to, any necessary special use permit or certificate of
occupancy; provided, however, that in the case of an applicant for a liquor
license that intends to thereafter apply for video gaming terminal location
licensing from the state and discloses such intention to the village on the
liquor license application, a license may if otherwise available be issued to
such an applicant otherwise in compliance with the applicable ordinances of the
village and laws of the state prior to the applicant’s receipt of any required
certificate of occupancy from the village for purposes of obtaining a state
liquor license and applying for state video gaming terminal location licensing
upon the condition that a village certificate of occupancy be obtained and
state video gaming terminal location licensing be applied for within six months
of the date of the issuance of the license. In the event that a village
certificate of occupancy is obtained by the licensee named in the original
license application for the original licensed premises described in the
original license application and provided to the Local Liquor Commissioner
within six months of the date of the issuance of the license, together with a
copy of the filed application to the state for video gaming terminal location
licensing, the condition shall be deemed satisfied and removed from the
license. In the event that the licensee fails to provide the Local Liquor
Commissioner with a village certificate of occupancy for the licensed premises
or a copy of the filed application to the state for video gaming terminal
location licensing within six months of the date of the issuance of the
license, the conditional license shall be subject to revocation under §§
112.066 and
112.081 based on the failure to comply with the condition imposed by this
section. No holder of a conditional liquor license issued in accordance with
the provisions of this section shall be permitted under any circumstances to
sell, give, transfer or dispense alcoholic liquors to any person within or from
the licensed premises prior to the issuance of a village certificate of
occupancy for such premises, and no holder of any liquor license, conditional
or otherwise shall allow, permit or otherwise engage in the operation of any
video gaming terminals from the licensed premises without first having been
issued any and all necessary video gaming terminal endorsements in accordance
with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.32) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-
1998; Ord. 12-0986, passed 5-2-2012; Ord. 14-1092, passed 2-5-2014)
§ 112.053 CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Class A licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the specified
premises of alcoholic liquor at retail, and shall permit live entertainment on
the premises. The annual fee for the license shall be $2,000.
   (B)   Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
on the specified premises, but shall not permit live entertainment on the
premises. The annual fee for the license shall be $1,250.
   (C)   Class C licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
on specified premises and shall be known as a “service bar license.” The
license shall not permit live entertainment on the premises and alcoholic
liquor may only be served by employees at tables on the premises to patrons of
the establishment. A Class C license specifically prohibits the operation of a
bar or any facility where patrons may directly request service themselves and
carry the beverage to their own table. The annual fee for a Class C license
shall be $1,250.
   (D)   Class D licenses shall authorize the retail sale of beer and wine only
on the specified premises to the exclusion of all other forms of alcoholic
beverages, but shall not permit live entertainment on the premises. Not more
than 25% of the gross revenues from the Class D licensee’s business operations
during any 12-month period shall be derived from the sale of beer or wine
permitted by the Class D license. All Class D licensees shall maintain
documentation demonstrating compliance with the foregoing standard available
for inspection on the request of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. Class D
licensees shall be ineligible to apply for or receive a video gaming
endorsement under the provisions of this chapter, and shall further be
prohibited from conducting any raffles or any other form of gaming or gambling
on the licensed premises, whether or not otherwise allowed or permitted by
state law or regulation. The annual fee for the license shall be $1,250.
   (E)   The village further designates the following village-owned locations
as locations from which the village, its authorized agents, invitees, users,
contracted parties, licensees, permittees or lessees may serve alcoholic
beverages for on-premises consumption pursuant to a duly issued Class L-
1 license; provided, however, that no more than one such Class L-1 license
shall ever be issued or in force and effect at any given time for any
particular designated location and provided further that the sale and service
of alcoholic beverages shall be subject to the applicable Class L-
1 regulations, and shall further be subject to the terms and conditions of a
duly approved contract between the village and the Class L-1 licensee
authorizing the use of the designated location in question for the sale and
service of alcoholic beverages pursuant to a Class L-1 license:
      (1)   Romeoville Athletic and Event Center; or
      (2)   Deer Crossing Park and Pavilion.
   (F)   Class E licenses shall authorize the retail package sale of alcoholic
liquor for use or consumption at a locale other than the premises from where it
was sold. The annual fee for the license shall be $1,250.
   (G)   Class F licenses shall authorize golf course banquet facilities to
sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises described in the
application therefor, and shall permit live entertainment on such premises. The
annual fee for the license shall be $1,250. Notwithstanding any contrary
provisions of §
112.031(A), a Class F licensee may employ persons aged 18 or over to sell,
draw, mix or pour alcoholic liquors where such persons possess and maintain a
valid B.A.S.S.E.T. training certificate, and where an employee of the Class F
licensee aged 21 or over is physically present in the Class F licensed premises
acting in a supervisory or managerial capacity over any persons aged 18 or over
so employed by the Class F licensee.
   (H)   Class G licenses shall authorize the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor
at retail for consumption on the licensed premises, solely in connection with
the operation of a full-service hotel, as defined in
Chapter 157, containing not less than 25 separate rooms for guest
accommodation. At all times during which a Class G licensee shall be lawfully
engaged in the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail for consumption on the
premises, the Class G licensee shall operate a full service restaurant where
meals are ordered from menus and prepared for and served to customers or
patrons by staff employed for such purpose by the Class G licensee and not for
the purpose of selling or serving alcoholic liquor. No Class G licensee shall
be authorized to sell or deliver alcoholic liquor to individual rooms or to
place, furnish or sell alcoholic liquor within individual guest rooms in any
refrigerator, cooler, bar, chest or like item without a Class G room service
endorsement. The annual fee for a Class G license shall be $1,200.
   (I)   A Class G-1 license shall authorize the retail sale for on-premises
consumption of bottled or canned beer or wine only to the exclusion of any form
of spirits or to the service of any form of draft or tap beer or wine, in
accordance with the limitations and conditions hereinafter set forth in this
division (I). The annual fee for a Class G-1 license shall be $1,250 per year.
All sales of bottled or canned beer or wine for on-premises consumption by a
Class G-I licensee shall comply with the following limitations and conditions.
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, no Class
G-1 licensee shall or serve sell any beer or wine on any day prior to 12:00
noon or after 11:00 p.m. under any circumstances.
      (2)   The sale for on-premises consumption of bottled or canned beer or
wine by a Class G-1 licensee shall be incidental to the conduct by the Class G-
1 licensee of the business of a hotel (other than a full service hotel) as the
same is defined in Chapter 157 of this code. No live entertainment shall be
permitted on the premises of a Class G-1 licensee.
      (3)   The sale or service of bottled or canned beer or wine for on-
premises consumption by a Class G-1 licensee shall be limited to:
         (a)   The sale of such products from a convenience/gift shop operated
on the hotel premises by the Class G-1 licensee and intended to serve the needs
of the guests of the Class G-1 licensee; and
         (b)   Subject to the compliance by the Class G-1 licensee with the
provisions of § 6-28.5 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/
6-28.5, the complimentary dispensation to guests of the Class G-1 licensee of
such products during a limited and continuous time period each day, the
duration of which shall not exceed two hours.
      (4)   No Class G-1 licensee shall contract with, make arrangements with
or otherwise cause any food truck licensed or required to be licensed under the
village code of ordinances from conducting its ordinary business operations at
any location within the vicinity of the Class G-1 licensed premises, including,
but not limited to, any parking area available for use by the customers of the
Class G-1 licensed premises.
      (5)   No Class G-1 licensee shall cause, sponsor or permit the conduct of
any special event or gathering outside of or at any location within the
vicinity of the licensed premises, including, but not limited to, any parking
area available for use by customers of the Class G-1 licensed premises.
      (6)   All beer or wine to be served or sold by a Class G-1 licensee shall
be served or sold by an employee of the licensee who has successfully completed
a T.I.P.S. alcohol training and certification course conducted by the Police
Department or a B.A.S.S.E.T. program approved by the State Liquor Control
Commission within a period of one year immediately prior to the date(s) during
which the Class G-1 licensee proposes to serve such beer or wine as herein
contemplated.
      (7)   No Class G-1 licensee shall be authorized to deliver any bottled or
canned beer or wine for on-premises consumption to individual rooms or to
place, furnish or sell alcoholic liquor within individual guest rooms in any
refrigerator, cooler, bar, chest or like item.
   (J)   Class H licenses shall authorize the holders thereof to sell beer or
wine, pre-mixed cocktails served from the manufacturer’s original packaging
without further mixing or alteration by the licensee, or other forms of
alcoholic beverages, at retail for consumption on the premises specified in the
application, and shall permit live entertainment on such premises; provided,
however, that Class H licenses shall only be issued in conjunction with the
conduct of a special event or events occurring not more frequently than
annually within the village to the person or entity organizing and responsible
for the conduct of such special event or events. Notwithstanding the preceding
sentence, a Class H licensee holding a valid Class H license in connection with
a special event to be held at the Romeoville Athletic and Event Center shall be
permitted to serve any otherwise lawful form of alcoholic beverages for on-
premises consumption in connection with such a special event, where the service
and sale of alcoholic beverages in connection with the special event in
question is conducted through a Class A licensee that is also the holder of a
duly issued and valid Class A special event endorsement. Class H licenses shall
only be available to applicants that are bona fide charitable, religious,
fraternal, civic, patriotic or social entities organized under the laws of the
state, organized for the promotion of a common aim or objective other than the
consumption of alcohol and not for pecuniary profit, and that have been so
organized for not less than five consecutive years prior to the date on which
application for a Class H license is made by the applicant. As used in this
chapter, SPECIAL EVENT means a picnic, rally, fair, festival, banquet, dance or
other like gathering, whether public or private. The duration of a Class H
license shall be entirely within the reasonable discretion of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, but in any event shall not exceed five days. Not more
than 12 Class H licenses shall be issued during any one calendar year, and not
more than one Class H license shall be in force and outstanding at any given
time. In the event that two or more otherwise qualified applicants apply for a
Class H license for the same period of time, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall issue the Class H license at issue on the basis of priority
of application. Additionally, no applicant may be issued more than two Class H
licenses during any single calendar year, except that this limitation shall not
apply to licensees seeking licenses in conjunction with village sponsored
events. In the event that an applicant seeks a Class H license for a special
event to be held on public property of the village, that applicant, in addition
to complying with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable
ordinances of the village, shall be required to demonstrate to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner that the village has, by a duly enacted ordinance,
authorized and approved the retail sale of alcoholic beverages at and from the
premises described in the application, and further, that the village has
authorized and approved the use of said premises for the retail sale of
alcoholic beverages by the applicant in question in connection with the
applicant’s conduct of the special event described in the application. All
applicants seeking a Class H license for a special event to be held on public
property of the village shall, as a condition to the validity of the Class H
license in question, further be required to execute an acknowledgment of the
village conditions applicable to the sale and service of alcoholic beverages on
public property in the form prescribed from time to time by the Liquor
Commissioner, and to cause all volunteer or retained personnel engaged in such
sale and service of alcoholic beverages to execute the village’s then-current
volunteer participation agreement. As a further condition to the issuance of a
Class H license, all Class H licensees shall cause a sufficient number of their
members, employees, agents or other personnel who are or are to be engaged in
the sale or service of alcoholic liquor at retail in connection with the
licensee’s holding of a Class H license to have successfully completed a
T.I.P.S. alcohol training and certification course conducted by the Police
Department or a B.A.S.S.E.T. program approved by the State Liquor Control
Commission within a period of one year immediately prior to the date(s) during
which alcoholic liquor is proposed to be served pursuant to the Class H license
in question. For purposes of the issuance of a Class H license, a sufficient
number of members, employees, agents or other personnel of a Class H licensee
who have received the training required by this division (J) shall be not less
than one member, employee, agent or other personnel of the Class H licensee for
every ten members, employees, agents or other personnel of the Class H licensee
(or any fraction thereof) engaged or to be engaged in the service and sale of
alcoholic liquor pursuant to the Class H license. Such sufficient number of
trained members, employees, agents or other personnel of the Class H licensee
shall be present at the licensed premises at all times during which alcoholic
liquors are sold and served, and shall supervise the sale and service thereof.
The cost of such training shall be borne by the Class H licensee. Documentary
proof of compliance with the foregoing requirement shall be maintained by the
Class H licensee and shall be produced upon demand to the local Liquor Control
Commissioner or their designee. As an alternative means of satisfying the
immediately preceding license condition, a Class H licensee intending to hold a
special event on public property of the village may contract with any duly
licensed holder of a Class A liquor license within the village that is also the
holder of a Class A - special event sale endorsement to provide all goods and
services required in connection with the service or sale of alcoholic beverages
at the special event in question. Class H licensees may also provide written
consent to the dispensation of promotional samples of alcoholic beverages to a
Class H-2 licensee, under such terms and conditions as may be agreed to by such
parties. Such Class H-2 licensees shall be subject to and shall comply with all
conditions applicable to the Class H licensee. The fee for a Class H license
shall be $120 per day for each day for which the Class H license is sought.
   (K)   (1)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may grant a Class H-
1 license to any entity or organization conducting and promoting an event
organized for the sale and dispensing of samples of craft beer and homemade
brewed beverages (the “craft beer event”), as the Local Liquor Commissioner may
from time to time determine. A Class H-1 license shall be a temporary license
authorizing the sale of craft beer and other alcoholic beverages only for
consumption on a single licensed premises, which licensed premises shall
consist of premises identified in the Class H-1 license and may include,
subject to village approval at its discretion, by the Romeoville Athletic and
Event Center and/or surrounding and adjacent outdoor areas owned by the
village. Class H-1 licensees, during any craft beer event, may, if a licensee
so chooses, serve other forms of alcoholic beverages; provided that the Class
H-1 licensee is otherwise in compliance with all provisions of this chapter
with regard to such alcoholic beverages. A Class H-1 license shall only be
issued for a single event and shall be valid for the date(s) specified in the
license, as approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The duration of
the craft beer event shall be subject to the discretion of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner but in any event shall not exceed five days. In no event
shall a Class H-1 license remain valid beyond the date(s) specified therein.
The issuance of a Class H-1 license shall require written consent of the
Village Police and Fire Departments to confirm compliance with applicable state
and local public health and fire prevention ordinances and statutes, and
applicable village ordinances, including, but not limited to, all applicable
provisions of this chapter. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
determine and may impose such other restrictions on said license as deemed
necessary to protect the peace and quiet of the surrounding area. The fee for a
Class H-1 license is $250. In no event shall an entity or organization be
issued more than two Class H-1 licenses in any calendar year. No more than 12
Class H-1 licenses shall be issued in any calendar year, and no more than one
Class H-1 license shall be in force and effect at any given time.
      (2)   In the event that an application seeks a Class H-1 license for a
special event to be held at the Romeoville Athletic and Event Center and/or
surrounding and adjacent outdoor areas owned by the village or on other public
property, that applicant, in addition to complying with the provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable ordinances of the village, shall be required
to demonstrate to the Local Liquor Commissioner that the village has, by a duly
enacted ordinance, authorized and approved the retail sale of alcoholic
beverages at and from the premises described in the application, and further,
that the village has authorized and approved the use of said premises for the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the applicant in question in connection
with the applicants seeking a Class H-1 license for a craft beer event to be
held on any public property of the village shall, as a condition to the
validity of the Class H license in question, further be required to execute an
agreement acknowledging and accepting the village conditions applicable to the
sale and service of alcoholic beverages on public property in the form
prescribed from time to time by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. As a
further condition to the issuance of a Class H-1 license, all Class H-
1 licensees shall cause a sufficient number of their members, employees, agents
or other personnel or other authorized participants in the craft beer event who
are or are to be engaged in the sale or served of alcoholic liquor at retail in
connection with the licensee’s holding of a Class H-1 license to have
successfully completed a T.I.P.S. alcohol training and certification course
conducted by the Police Department or a B.A.S.S.E.T. program approved by the
State Liquor Control Commission within a period of one year immediately prior
to the date(s) during which alcoholic liquor is proposed to be served pursuant
to the Class H license in question. For purposes of the issuance of a Class H-
1 license, a “sufficient number” of members, employees, agents or other
personnel of a Class H-1 license or other authorized participant in the craft
beer event who have received the training required hereby shall be not less
than one member, employee, agent or other personnel of the Class H-1 licensee
or other authorized participant in the craft beer event for every ten members,
employees, agents or other personnel of the Class H-1 license or other
authorized craft beer event (or any fraction thereof) engaged or to be engaged
in the service and sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the Class H-1 license.
Such sufficient number of trained members, employees, agents or other personnel
of the Class H-1 licensee or other authorized participant in the craft beer
event shall be present at the licensed premises at all times during which
alcoholic liquors are sold and served, and shall supervise the sale and service
thereof. The cost of such training shall be borne by the Class H-1 licensee.
Documentary proof of compliance with the foregoing requirement shall be
maintained by the Class H-1 licensee and shall be produced upon demand to the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner or their designee. As an alternative means of
satisfying the immediately preceding license condition, a Class H-1 licensee
intending to hold a special event on public property of the village may
contract with any duly licensed holder of a Class A liquor license within the
village that is also the holder of a Class A - special event sale endorsement
to provide all goods and services required in connection with the service or
sale of alcoholic beverages at the special event in question. As used herein,
an AUTHORIZED PARTICIPANT IN A CRAFT BEER EVENT means a brewer or maker of
homemade brewed beverages, duly licensed to the extent required by the state,
or employees, representatives or agents thereof, invited and authorized by the
Class H-1 licensee to participate in the craft beer event by selling and
dispensing samples of craft beer and homemade brewed beverages at the craft
beer event.
      (3)   Class H-1 licenses shall be subject to the following additional
restrictions and conditions.
         (a)   All alcoholic beverages must be dispensed in plastic cups, the
size of which may be limited at the discretion of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
         (b)   Positive identification of all patrons must be checked prior to
entry into the licensed premises. Persons not of legal age to purchase or
consume alcoholic beverages shall be prohibited from entering the licensed
premises.
         (c)   The sale, delivery or service of alcoholic beverages shall be
limited to the licensed premises identified in the license. All alcoholic
beverages must stay within the licensed premises at all times. The licensee is
responsible for ensuring that patrons do not leave the licensed premises with
any alcoholic beverage and/or hand alcoholic beverages to persons outside the
licensed premises.
         (d)   All sales of alcoholic beverages must commence after 12:00 p.m.
on the day of the event, and stop at or before 11:00 p.m. is sold Friday and
Saturday and 10:00 p.m. if sold Sunday through Thursday. These hours may be
modified by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner as deemed necessary to
protect the peace and quiet of the surrounding area.
         (e)   Licensees are solely responsible for the timely clearance of all
patrons from the licensed premises.
         (f)   All operations by licensees at the licensed premises shall not
disturb the lawful use and quiet enjoyment of nearby properties.
         (g)   Licensees shall maintain the licensed premises in a neat,
orderly and safe condition; shall provide such traffic control and sanitation
facilities as may be required by the Local Liquor Commissioner to protect the
public health, safety, welfare and morals of the residents of the village; and
shall restore the premises after expiration of the license to the prior
condition thereof, including the removal of trash, rubbish and garbage in
accordance with this code. Licensees must provide refuse containers at each
exit of the licensed premises for garbage and/or unconsumed alcoholic
beverages.
         (h)   The licensed premises shall be entirely contained within a
permanent building or structure, or if not within a permanent building or
structure, enclosed with a fence, or other barrier approved by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, demarcating the area.
         (i)   Licensees shall be responsible to comply with all other
applicable provisions of this chapter and applicable laws of the state.
         (j)   The licensee shall, upon request of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, produce to the village evidence satisfactory to the village of
the licensee’s relationship to the individual brewers represented at the
subject event.
         (k)   Licensees shall be responsible for the actions of all authorized
participants in the craft beer event and shall take reasonable steps to ensure
the compliance of such participants with the applicable ordinances of the
village and laws of the state.
   (L)   Class H-2 licenses shall authorize the holders thereof to dispense
samples of beer, wine or other alcoholic liquors without charge or compensation
therefor to patrons or attendees of a special event for which a Class H liquor
license has been issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, and such
Class H-2 shall be valid only during the conduct of the underlying special
event and during the same dates and hours for which the relevant Class H
license shall have been issued. A Class H-2 license shall only be available to
a person or entity licensed by the state as a retailer or distributor of
alcoholic beverages, or registered with the state as a tasting representative.
A total of three sampling portions may be served to an individual of legal age
per day. A sampling portion consists of one ounce of wine, two ounces of beer
or one-quarter ounce of other alcoholic liquor. Class H-2 license applicants
shall, in addition to all other required information, provide the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner with proof of the written consent of the relevant Class H
licensee to the proposed activities of the Class H-2 licensee, which written
consent shall be subject to the reasonable review and approval of the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. Class H-2 licensees shall comply with all
conditions applicable to the conduct of the special event by the Class H
licensee.
   (M)   Class I licenses shall only be issued to holders of Class A, B, C, D,
E, F or G licenses who have not been fined or had their licenses suspended
during the calendar year in which the Class I license is sought; shall be of
one day in duration; and shall permit the holder thereof to sell alcoholic
liquor at retail for one additional hour during the day for which the license
is issued beyond the hours of retail sale of alcoholic liquor otherwise
permitted by the ordinances of the village. Not more than six Class I licenses
shall be issued for any given day, and shall be issued on the basis of priority
of application between otherwise qualified applicants. Not more than three
Class I licenses shall be issued to a single applicant during any given
calendar year, and no applicant shall apply for or be issued more than one
Class I license for any given day. The fee for each Class I license issued
shall be $50.
   (N)   Class J liquor licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the licensed premises, which premises are a cinema or
theater entertainment venue, consisting of a single- or multi-screen operation
in conjunction with the availability and preparation of food (including, but
not limited to, salads, sandwiches and pizzas) to customer order for immediate
consumption on the premises, and further provided that the sale of food and
alcoholic beverages shall be accessory to the operation of the premises as a
cinema or theater entertainment venue. Alcoholic beverages shall be prepared
and served from a service bar area which shall not include seating for patrons
adjacent to or in the vicinity of such service bar area. Notwithstanding any
contrary provisions of this chapter, alcoholic beverages may only be sold on
the premises of a Class J licensee during the hours of 12:00 noon to 12:00
midnight, but not more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the first
regularly scheduled movie or film to be shown on the premises during a given
day, nor after the conclusion of the last regularly scheduled movie or film to
be shown on the premises during a given day. The annual fee for a Class J
license shall be $1,800.
   (O)   Class K licenses shall authorize the holders thereof to engage only in
the retail sale of packaged alcoholic liquor for consumption at a location
other than the licensed premises, which packaged alcoholic liquor shall be
delivered to the purchaser or intended consumer thereof at a location other
than the licensed premises. Under no circumstances whatsoever shall the holder
of a Class K license deliver any packaged alcoholic liquor to any purchaser or
intended consumer thereof on the location of the licensed premises, or permit
the consumption of any alcoholic liquor on the location of the licensed
premises. For purposes of the imposition and ultimate distribution of tax
revenues levied and collected pursuant to the Retailers’ Occupation Tax, 35
ILCS 120/1 et seq., all sales of packaged alcoholic liquors made by a Class K
licensee from licensed premises shall be deemed to have been made within the
village, regardless of the location of the purchaser or ultimate consumer or
recipient of such packaged alcoholic liquors. Notwithstanding the fact that a
Class K licensee may take orders for the delivery of packaged alcoholic liquors
via telephone, internet or other forms of electronic communication and utilize
information provided by these means of communication to verify the age and
identity of the purchaser or ultimate consumer or recipient of the packaged
alcoholic beverages in question, no Class K licensee shall deliver any packaged
alcoholic liquor to any purchaser, or ultimate intended consumer or recipient
thereof without causing one or more of its employees to personally inspect the
identification of the purchaser or ultimate intended consumer or recipient in
accordance with §
112.028, nor shall any Class K licensee deliver any packaged alcoholic liquor
to any purchaser, or ultimate intended consumer or recipient thereof without
causing such purchaser, or ultimate intended consumer or recipient thereof to
sign a receipt for the delivery of such packaged alcoholic liquor on a form to
be prescribed by the village from time to time and thereafter forwarding a copy
of such receipt to the village, all so as to ensure compliance with §§
112.029 and
112.030. Furthermore, no Class K licensee shall accept any order for packaged
alcoholic liquors or deliver any packaged alcoholic liquors to the purchaser or
ultimate intended consumer or recipient thereof at any time when the sale of
packaged alcoholic liquors would be prohibited under §
112.007. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, no Class K licensee
shall be eligible to apply for or receive any other class of liquor license
provided for under this chapter during such time as the licensee’s Class K
license remains in full force and effect. The annual fee for a Class K license
shall be $2,000.
   (P)   Class L licenses shall authorize the holders thereof to engage in the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises specified in
the application therefor, and shall permit live entertainment on the premises;
provided, however, that such sales shall only occur in connection with the
conduct of special events (as defined in division (J) above), exhibitions,
tournaments or competitions in a sport, game or other activity on the premises
specified in the application, which shall not occur or take place more
frequently than four times per calendar year. The duration of any such special
event, exhibition, tournament or competition at which alcoholic liquor is to be
sold pursuant to a Class L license shall be entirely within the reasonable
discretion of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner but in no event shall such
a special event, exhibition, tournament or competition exceed three days in
duration. No person or entity shall apply for or be issued more than one Class
L license during any calendar year. Without otherwise limiting, affecting or
modifying any other requirements imposed by this division (P), other ordinances
of the village or applicable law, all holders of a Class L license shall
specifically be required to strictly comply with the terms and conditions of
any license or permit issued by the village in connection with the use of the
premises specified in the application or in connection with the operation of
any business from such premises. The annual fee for a Class L license shall be
$600.
   (Q)   Class L-1 licenses shall authorize the holders thereof to engage in
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises specified
in the application therefor, and shall permit live entertainment on the
premises; provided, however, that such sales shall only occur in connection
with and during the conduct of special events (as defined in division (J)
above), exhibitions, tournaments or competitions in a sport, game or other
activity on the premises specified in the application; provided, however, that
notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, the sale and service of
alcoholic beverages shall be strictly prohibited in connection with the conduct
of any special event in which the participants thereof are minors, or which is
marketed, held out or promoted as an event of particular interest to minors,
and no Class L-1 license shall be construed or deemed to authorize the sale and
service of alcoholic beverages in connection with any such special event. Class
L-1 licenses shall only be available for issuance to applicants having a
contractual right under a contract entered into with and approved by the
village for the sale and service of alcoholic liquors to sell and service
alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption at a village-owned location
designated in division (E) above. The duration of any such special event,
exhibition, tournament or competition at which alcoholic liquor is to be sold
pursuant to a Class L-1 license shall be entirely within the reasonable
discretion of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner but in no event shall such
a special event, exhibition, tournament or competition exceed five days in
duration; provided, however, that the duration of the Class L-1 license itself
shall be for a term of one calendar year, expiring at the end of the calendar
year in which it was issued without regard to the date of issuance. Without
otherwise limiting, affecting or modifying any other requirements imposed by
this division, other ordinances of the village or applicable law, all holders
of a Class L-l license shall specifically be required to strictly comply with
the terms and conditions of any contract approved by the village in connection
with the use of the premises specified in the application or in connection with
the operation of any business from such premises, and no Class L-1 license
shall be approved or issued without such a contract having first been approved
for the use of the premises described in the application as a location for the
sale, service and on premises consumption of alcoholic beverages. All
applicants seeking a Class L-1 license for a special event to be held on public
property of the village designated as such in division (E) above, as a
condition to the validity of the Class L-1 license in question, further be
required to execute an acknowledgment of the village conditions applicable to
the sale and service of alcoholic beverages on public property in the form
prescribed from time to time by the Liquor Commissioner, and to cause all
volunteer or retained personnel engaged in such sale and service of alcoholic
beverages to execute the village’s then-current volunteer participation
agreement. As a further condition to the issuance of a Class L-1 license, all
Class L-1 licensees shall cause a sufficient number of their members,
employees, agents or other personnel who are or are to be engaged in the sale
or service of alcoholic liquor at retail in connection with the licensee’s
holding of a Class L-1 license to have successfully completed a T.I.P.S.
alcohol training and certification course conducted by the Police Department or
a B.A.S.S.E.T. program approved by the State Liquor Control Commission within a
period of one year immediately prior to the date(s) during which alcoholic
liquor is proposed to be served pursuant to the Class L-1 license in question.
For purposes of the issuance of a Class L-1 license, a SUFFICIENT NUMBER of
members, employees, agents or other personnel of a Class L-1 licensee who have
received the training required by this division (Q) shall be not less than one
member, employee, agent or other personnel of the Class L-1 licensee for every
ten members, employees, agents or other personnel of the Class L-1 licensee (or
any fraction thereof) engaged or to be engaged in the service and sale of
alcoholic liquor pursuant to the Class L-1 license. Such sufficient number of
trained members, employees, agents or other personnel of the Class L-1 licensee
shall be present at the licensed premises at all times during which alcoholic
liquors are sold and served, and shall supervise the sale and service thereof.
The cost of such training shall be borne by the Class L-1 licensee. Documentary
proof of compliance with the foregoing requirement shall be maintained by the
Class L-1 licensee and shall be produced upon demand to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner or their designee. As an alternative means of satisfying
the immediately preceding license condition, a Class L-1 licensee intending to
hold a special event on public property of the village may contract with any
duly licensed holder of a Class A liquor license within the village that is
also the holder of a Class A - special event sale endorsement to provide all
goods and services required in connection with the service or sale of alcoholic
beverages at the special event in question. The annual fee for a Class L-
1 license shall be $500.
   (R)   Class L-2 licenses shall authorize the holders thereof to engage in
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises specified
in the application therefor, and shall permit live entertainment on the
premises; provided, however, that such sales shall only occur in connection
with and during the conduct of special events (as defined in division (J)
above), exhibitions, tournaments or competitions in a sport, game or other
activity on the premises specified in the application. Class L-2 licenses shall
only be available for issuance to applicants having a contractual right under a
contract entered into with and approved by the village for the sale and service
of alcoholic liquors to sell and service alcoholic beverages for on-premises
consumption at a village-owned location designated in division (E) above. The
duration of any such special event, exhibition, tournament or competition at
which alcoholic liquor is to be sold pursuant to a Class L-2 license shall be
entirely within the reasonable discretion of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner; provided, however, that the duration of the Class L-2 license
itself shall be for a term of one calendar year, expiring at the end of the
calendar year in which it was issued without regard to the date of issuance.
Without otherwise limiting, affecting or modifying any other requirements
imposed by this division, other ordinances of the village or applicable law,
all holders of a Class L-2 license shall specifically be required to strictly
comply with the terms and conditions of any contract approved by the village in
connection with the use of the premises specified in the application or in
connection with the operation of any business from such premises, and no Class
L-2 license shall be approved or issued without such a contract having first
been approved for the use of the premises described in the application as a
location for the sale, service and on premises consumption of alcoholic
beverages. All applicants seeking a Class L-2 license for a special event to be
held on public property of the village designated as such in division (E)
above, as a condition to the validity of the Class L-2 license in question,
further be required to execute an acknowledgment of the village conditions
applicable to the sale and service of alcoholic beverages on public property in
the form prescribed from time to time by the Liquor Commissioner, and to cause
all volunteer or retained personnel engaged in such sale and service of
alcoholic beverages to execute the village’s then-current volunteer
participation agreement. As a further condition to the issuance of a Class L-
2 license, all Class L-2 licensees shall cause a sufficient number of their
members, employees, agents or other personnel who are or are to be engaged in
the sale or service of alcoholic liquor at retail in connection with the
licensee’s holding of a Class L-2 license to have successfully completed a
T.I.P.S. alcohol training and certification course conducted by the Police
Department or a B.A.S.S.E.T. program approved by the State Liquor Control
Commission within a period of one year immediately prior to the date(s) during
which alcoholic liquor is proposed to be served pursuant to the Class L-
2 license in question. For purposes of the issuance of a Class L-2 license, a
SUFFICIENT NUMBER of members, employees, agents or other personnel of a Class
L-2 licensee who have received the training required by this division (R) shall
be not less than one member, employee, agent or other personnel of the Class L-
2 licensee for every ten members, employees, agents or other personnel of the
Class L-2 licensee (or any fraction thereof) engaged or to be engaged in the
service and sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the Class L-2 license. Such
sufficient number of trained members, employees, agents or other personnel of
the Class L-2 licensee shall be present at the licensed premises at all times
during which alcoholic liquors are sold and served, and shall supervise the
sale and service thereof. The cost of such training shall be borne by the Class
L-2 licensee. Documentary proof of compliance with the foregoing requirement
shall be maintained by the Class L-2 licensee and shall be produced upon demand
to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or their designee. As an alternative
means of satisfying the immediately preceding license condition, a Class L-
2 licensee intending to hold a special event on public property of the village
may contract with any duly licensed holder of a Class A liquor license within
the village that is also the holder of a Class A - special event sale
endorsement to provide all goods and services required in connection with the
service or sale of alcoholic beverages at the special event in question. The
annual fee for a Class L-2 license shall be $500.
   (S)   Class M licenses shall authorize the on-premises brewing of beer and
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on the premises, including, but not limited
to, the beer brewed on the premises, and shall further authorize the sale of
the beer brewed on the premises in original sealed packages for consumption off
of the premises, except that no such beer shall be sold for consumption off of
the premises during the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. Class M licensees
shall further be permitted to make sales of beer brewed on the premises to
distributors or wholesalers and to store brewed beer upon the premises. The
area in which beer is brewed on the premises may be visible to customers or
patrons of the Class M licensee but shall not be generally or freely accessible
to such customers or patrons. All Class M licensees shall further be required
at all times when open to the general public to operate a full service
restaurant where meals are ordered from menus and prepared for and served to
customers or patrons by staff employed for such purpose by the Class M licensee
and not for the purpose of selling or serving alcoholic liquor. Class M
licensees may incorporate a bar with a seating area as part of the full service
restaurant required to be maintained, but such bar area may not occupy more
than 25% of the total floor area designated and used by the Class M licensee
for the combined restaurant/bar operation, and no persons under 21 years of age
shall be permitted to be present in such bar area. Class M licensees shall at
all times remain solely responsible for obtaining and remaining in compliance
with all other necessary state and federal licenses required for the operation
of the business contemplated by the Class M licensee, and the failure to do so
shall constitute a violation of this chapter. The annual fee for the Class M
license shall be $1,800.
   (T)   Class M-1 licenses shall authorize the on-premises brewing of beer,
the retail sales of beer brewed on the premises for off-premises consumption in
original sealed packages which shall require the seal to be broken in order for
the beer contained in the packages to be consumed (except that no such beer
shall be sold for off-premises consumption during the hours from 12:00 a.m. to
2:00 a.m.), the sales of beer brewed on the premises to distributors or
wholesalers, and the storage of brewed beer on the premises. The dispensation
of beer for off-premises consumption into containers commonly known as
“growlers” shall comply with the requirements pertaining thereto set forth in §
112.054(B)(1). Class M-1 licensees may sell beer brewed on the premises for on
premises consumption or provide complimentary samples of beer brewed on the
premises to prospective purchasers of such beer; provided, however, that the
service of such complimentary samples shall be performed by a full time
employee of the Class M-1 licensee in a designated area of the licensed
premises, and the consumption of such samples shall at all times be supervised
by such employee. Class M-1 licensees shall additionally be permitted to sell
alcoholic liquor and wine for on-premises consumption on the Class M-1 licensed
premises. Class M-1 licensees may, but need not provide food services from
within the Class M-1 licensed premises; provided that such services otherwise
comply with all applicable village, county and state requirements, and provided
further that Class M-1 licensees shall further be permitted to allow customers
and patrons present within the Class M-1 licensed premises to order food from
outside the Class M-1 licensed premises for delivery to the Class M-1 licensed
premises for consumption within the Class M-1 licensed premises while present
therein for the purpose of sampling beer brewed on the premises as hereinabove
contemplated. The annual fee for the Class M-1 license shall be $1,200.
   (U)   Class N licenses shall authorize the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor
in the original package solely in connection with the operation of a catering
business from a physical location within the village which shall be deemed the
licensed premises, and then only in connection with the sale of prepared food
by such catering business for consumption at a private party or function open
only to previously invited guests where such prepared food is also served.
Class N licenses shall only be issued to applicants demonstrating that the
business of the licensee is that of a bona fide catering business. All sales of
alcoholic liquor and food made by any Class N licensee shall be deemed to have
been made from the licensed premises, and shall be subject to all applicable
village and other taxes. No consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be
permitted on the licensed premises. The annual fee for the Class N license
shall be $1,250.
   (V)   Class O licenses shall authorize the licensee to sell bottled wines
and premium beer only in the original package and not for consumption on the
licensed premises, and to sell wine and premium beer by the glass for
consumption on the licensed premises. Holders of Class O licenses shall be
permitted to sell spirits in the original package for consumption either off
the licensed premises, or to sell spirits for consumption on the licensed
premises. Additionally, and subject to compliance with applicable requirements
of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., and the rules and
regulations promulgated by the State Liquor Control Commission, Class O
licensee shall additionally be permitted to sell growlers or crawlers of
premium beer for off-premises consumption, and likewise to sell pre-mixed
cocktails or single servings of wine for off-premises consumption. However,
Class O licensees shall be prohibited from applying for or holding any license,
permit or other approval authorizing or purporting to authorize video gaming
terminals to be located and used on the licensed premises. Class O licensees
shall also at all times offer not less than six different types or varieties of
wine for sale by the glass for consumption on the licensed premises. As used in
this chapter, PREMIUM BEER shall mean and include beer not brewed or
manufactured within the United States or a beer brewed or manufactured by a
brewer that produces less than 2,000,000 barrels of beer annually, in which no
other brewer, person or entity producing more than 2,000,000 barrels of beer
annually holds more than a 25% ownership interest and that produces a
significant volume of all-malt beers, uses adjuncts to enhance rather than
lighten flavor and is characterized by the production of new interpretations of
traditional beer styles or the development of new styles of beer without
historical precedent. All dispensing of premium beer or wine from the original
packages thereof for consumption on the licensed premises shall be conducted by
employees of the Class O licensee who have completed the training required by §
112.068. Seating for customers ordering wine or premium beer by the glass for
consumption on the licensed premises shall not exceed 40 seats in total. A
Class O license shall also allow the delivery of wine and premium beer, without
any direct or indirect charge, for on-premises consumption for promotional or
sampling purposes only in conjunction with promotional efforts occurring on the
licensed premises, which efforts may be conducted on a daily basis. The
sampling shall be attended and supervised by a full-time employee and only in a
designated area on the licensed premises, and shall be subject to such further
regulation as deemed necessary by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No
portion of beer or wine provided for sampling or tasting purposes shall exceed
one ounce in volume of wine, two ounces of premium beer and no individual
person may be provided more than five such tasting or sampling portions during
a given calendar day. Notwithstanding the limitation on the number of sampling
portions permitted to be provided to an individual person during a given
calendar day, a Class O licensee shall be permitted to conduct not more than
four special events during a given calendar year, during which such special
events there shall be no limitation on the number of sampling portions that may
be provided to an individual patron other than as set forth in §
112.025, and at which a Class O licensee shall be permitted to provide live
entertainment on the Class O licensed premises. Except as contemplated by the
preceding sentence, Class O licensees shall not be permitted to provide live
entertainment on the Class O licensed premises. A Class O licensee shall
provide the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with not less than 30 days’ prior
written notice of its intent to conduct a special event as permitted herein,
which notice shall set forth a description of the nature of the event and the
activities to be conducted at such event. The manner in which such a special
event is conducted shall be subject to the reasonable discretion of the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. A Class O license also authorizes the sale of beer
and wine-related accessories, gourmet food-related accessories and gourmet
foods, such as cold sandwiches, salads, cheeses, appetizers or other similar or
complimentary foods, and drink products, all in compliance with the applicable
requirements of the Health Department or other like agency having jurisdiction
thereof. Patrons of Class O licensees shall also be permitted to order food and
drink products from outside of the Class O licensed premises for consumption
within the Class O licensed premises, so long as the providers or sellers
thereof shall supply and produce such food and drink products in compliance
with the applicable requirements of the Health Department or other like agency
having jurisdiction thereof. The annual fee for the Class O license shall be
$1,250.
   (W)   Class P licenses shall authorize the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor
at retail for consumption on the licensed premises, where such premises are
owned by the licensee and include a full-service kitchen area of not less than
300 square feet, and where the licensee is a bona fide charitable, religious,
fraternal, civic, patriotic or social entity organized under the laws of the
state; organized for the promotion of a common aim or objective other than the
consumption of alcohol and not for pecuniary profit; and has been so organized
for not less than five consecutive years prior to the date on which application
for a Class P license is made by the applicant. No Class P license shall be
issued for any licensee owning proposed licensed premises located within a
residential zoning district pursuant to applicable village ordinances, or to
any licensee that is a condominium of homeowners’ association. Class P licenses
shall only authorize such sale at retail of alcoholic liquor to members of the
licensee and to invited guests of such members in connection with the conduct
of particular events or functions, including, but not necessarily limited to,
banquets, dinners, fundraisers, dances or festivals, and not on a general or
continuous basis, where written notice of the particular event or function at
which alcoholic liquor is to be served is provided to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner not less than 15 days prior to the date of the event or function
in question. Live entertainment shall be permitted on the licensed premises in
connection with the conduct of the aforementioned events or functions by the
licensee. As a further condition to the issuance of a Class P license, all
Class P licensees shall cause a sufficient number of their members, employees,
agents or other personnel who are or are to be engaged in the sale or service
of alcoholic liquor at retail in connection with the licensee’s holding of a
Class P license to successfully complete a T.I.P.S. alcohol training and
certification course conducted by the Police Department or a B.A.S.S.E.T.
program approved by the State Liquor Control Commission within 90 days of the
issuance of any original or renewal license, or within 90 days from the date on
which any such members, employees, agents or other personnel become engaged in
such sale or service of alcoholic liquor. For purposes of the issuance of a
Class P license, a SUFFICIENT NUMBER of members, employees, agents or other
personnel of a Class P licensee who have received the training required by this
division (W) shall be not less than one member, employee, agent or other
personnel of the Class P licensee for every ten members, employees, agents or
other personnel of the Class P licensee (or any fraction thereof) engaged or to
be engaged in the service and sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the Class P
license. Such sufficient number of trained members, employees, agents or other
personnel of the Class P licensee shall be present at the licensed premises at
all times during which alcoholic liquors are sold and served, and shall
supervise the sale and service thereof. The cost or expense of such training
shall be borne by the Class P licensee. Documentary proof of compliance with
the foregoing requirement shall be maintained by the Class P licensee and shall
be produced upon demand to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or their
designee. The annual fee for the Class P license shall be $250.
   (X)   (1)   Class Q licenses shall authorize a licensee that is a bona fide
restaurant to permit its customers to bring beer or wine but no other form of
alcoholic liquor into such bona fide restaurant for consumption on the premises
of such restaurant incidental and complementary to the service of a meal to be
consumed by such customers while seated at a table and served by waitstaff
employed by such licensee exclusively for such purpose, and no other
establishment that is not a bona fide restaurant as defined herein (including,
but not limited to, an establishment that holds a license issued under the
provisions of §§
120.30 through
120.38 or under any successor provisions thereto) shall be eligible to apply
for or receive a Class Q license. No person, entity or establishment that is
not the holder of a valid Class Q license shall exercise any of the privileges
granted to holders of Class Q licenses hereunder. No Class Q licensee shall
permit any individual customer or pair of customers to bring into any Class Q
licensed premises any amount of beer in excess of 72 ounces of beer in the
original manufacturer’s sealed package, or any amount of wine in excess of 750
mL of wine in the original manufacturer’s sealed package; parties of customers
larger than two customers shall be subject to the foregoing limitations,
applied to each pair of such customers or fraction thereof.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of this chapter, no Class Q
licensee shall permit any customer to:
         (a)   Bring any beer or wine into any Class Q licensed premises prior
to noon on any day of the week;
         (b)   Enter any Class Q licensed premises with beer or wine after 10:
00 p.m. on any day of the week, or
         (c)   Remain within any Class Q licensed premises with any unconsumed
beer or wine after 11:00 p.m. on any day of the week.
      (3)   No Class Q licensee shall permit any customers to leave the
licensed premises in possession of any opened container of beer or wine, other
than an opened and partially consumed bottle of wine that has been resealed
with a seal identifying the name and address of the licensee, and in a tamper-
proof manner requiring the seal to be broken in order to open the container.
The Class Q licensee shall provide each customer leaving its premises with such
a partially consumed and resealed bottle of wine with a receipt bearing the
date and time of such customer’s patronage. Class Q licensees may provide
glassware, ice, coolers or ice buckets for such customers, and may open,
uncork, serve, pour and store beer or wine brought by such customers but only
while such customers remain on the premises in connection with their
consumption of a meal on the premises, and for the provision of such services,
may charge such customers a service or corkage fee which shall be displayed on
printed menus distributed to customers upon being seated at a table on the
licensed premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Class Q licensees shall be
prohibited from collecting any cover charge or other form of admission charge
from customers seeking to enter the licensed premises. As a further condition
to the issuance of a Class Q license, and to the exercise of any and all
privileges thereunder, all Class Q licensees shall be required at all times to
maintain on the premises not less than one manager or supervisor who has
successfully completed within the year prior to the exercise or proposed
exercise of any privileges under the Class Q license a T.I.P.S. alcohol
training and certification course conducted by the Village Police Department or
a B.A.S.S.E.T. program approved by the State Liquor Control Commission, and
shall further require that all waitstaff employed by such licensee who are
engaged in the exercise or proposed exercise of any privileges under the Class
Q license likewise complete a T.I.P.S. alcohol training and certification
course conducted by the Village Police Department or a B.A.S.S.E.T. program
approved by the State Liquor Control Commission within the year prior to so
engaging in the exercise or proposed exercise of any privileges under the Class
Q license. As used herein, a BONA FIDE RESTAURANT shall mean an establishment
that derives not less than 90% of its revenues from the sales to customers of
food and nonalcoholic beverages prepared for on-premises consumption that is
regularly and principally engaged in the preparation of full meals consisting
of an entree served with soup, salad or an appetizer to the order of its
customers, where customers sit exclusively at separate tables and chairs
adequately sized to the service and consumption of full meals by the number of
persons seated at a particular table and order from menus that include full
meals consisting of an entree served with soup, salad or an appetizer, that is
in possession of all other required licenses and permits, including a village
business license that discloses the business of the establishment as a bona
fide restaurant as contemplated herein and all necessary County Health
Department food service permits and licenses and that maintains a full-time
staff solely for the purposes of cooking, preparing and serving food to
customers, sized to accommodate that number of customers capable of being
seated at the tables and chairs located within the licensed premises. No
establishment serving food shall be deemed to be a bona fide restaurant or be
eligible to apply for a Class Q license if such establishment holds a license
issued under §§
120.30 through
120.38, or if such establishment serves or is capable of serving customers
through any form of drive-through or drive-up service facilities, serves
customers or receives customer orders through a window or at a counter service
area; requires payment at the time of ordering food, does not customarily
require or expect customers to provide gratuities to waitstaff; does not
utilize permanent cutlery, tableware, glassware or dishes to serve food and
beverages; customarily expects customers to clean up disposable food service
items from their own tables; or customarily provides trash containers for
customers in the customer dining area. The annual fee for a Class Q license
shall be $500.
   (Y)   A Class R license shall authorize the retail package sale of alcoholic
liquor for use or consumption at a locale other than the premises from where it
was sold, and shall further authorize the holder thereof to permit the sale of
premium beer and wine only to the exclusion of spirits for on-premises
consumption in accordance with the limitations and conditions hereinafter set
forth in this division (Y). The annual fee for a Class R license shall be
$3,000. All sales of beer and wine for on-premises consumption conducted by a
Class R license shall be conducted in accordance with the following limitations
and conditions.
      (1)   Sales of premium beer and wine for on-premises consumption must be
conducted from a physically distinct area consisting of not more than 5% of the
Class R licensed premises, sometimes hereinafter referred to as a “tasting
room.” The total area of any Class R licensed premises containing a tasting
room shall consist of not less than 10,000 square feet. No gratuitous
dispensation of premium beer or wine shall be permitted in connection with the
operation of a tasting room.
      (2)   Alcoholic beverages offered for consumption on the Class R licensed
premises shall be limited to premium beer, as defined in division (V) above and
wine. No Class R licensee shall sell or offer spirits for on-premises
consumption in connection with the operation of a tasting room.
      (3)   No Class R licensee shall serve more than 32 ounces of premium beer
to a patron or more than 16 ounces of wine to a patron during any one calendar
day, nor shall any Class R licensee serve both premium beer and wine to the
same patron during any one calendar day.
      (4)   Class R licensees shall only offer premium beer and wine for on-
premises consumption during the hours from 12:00 noon to 10:00 p.m.
      (5)   No Class R licensee shall derive more than 10% of its gross
revenues in any 12-month period from the operation of a tasting room within the
Class R licensed premises. All Class R licensees shall maintain documentation
demonstrating compliance with the foregoing standard available for inspection
on the request of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      (6)   No Class R licensee shall at any time offer or permit the
performance of any form of live entertainment within the Class R licensed
premises.
      (7)   No Class R licensee shall be permitted to apply for or hold a video
gaming terminal location endorsement under §
112.054.
      (8)   No Class R licensee shall permit any tasting room patron to bring
any form of alcoholic beverage from outside of the Class R licensed premises
into a tasting room for on-premises consumption, or to permit any tasting room
patron to purchase premium beer or wine from the portion of the Class R
licensed premises dedicated to retail sales of alcoholic beverages for off-
premises consumption, and to thereafter consume the same within the tasting
room.
      (9)   Class R licensees shall be prohibited from selling, providing or
offering food for on-premises consumption within a tasting room, from
permitting tasting room patrons to consume food within a tasting room whether
purchased or obtained on or off the Class R licensed premises and from
inviting, permitting or authorizing any food truck licensed under the
provisions from
Chapter 122 from operating on or from any real property owned or controlled by
any Class R licensee, including, but not limited to, any parking lot available
for use by customers of the Class R licensed premises.
      (10)   All premium beer or wine to be served by a Class R licensee to
patrons of a tasting room shall be served by an employee of the endorsement
holder who has successfully completed a T.I.P.S. alcohol training and
certification course conducted by the Police Department or a B.A.S.S.E.T.
program approved by the State Liquor Control Commission within a period of one
year immediately prior to the date(s) during which the Class R licensee
proposes to serve such premium beer or wine as herein contemplated.
   (Z)   (1)   A Class S license shall authorize the retail sale for on-
premises consumption of bottled or canned beer or wine only to the exclusion of
any form of spirits or to the service of any form of draft or tap beer or wine,
in accordance with the limitations and conditions hereinafter set forth in this
division (Z). The annual fee for a Class S license shall be $500 per year.
      (2)   All sales of bottled or canned beer or wine for on-premises
consumption by a Class S licensee shall comply with the following limitations
and conditions.
         (a)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, no
Class S licensee shall sell any beer or wine after 10:00 p.m. under any
circumstances. All beer and wine sold by a Class S licensee for on-premises
consumption shall be sold from single serve manufacturer packaged cans or
bottles having a volume not in excess of 12 fluid ounces. No such beer or wine
may be sold to any person who is not a bona fide customer or patron of the
business to which the Class S sales or beer and wine are incidental with an
appointment for service with such business on the date on which such beer and
wine are sold or served. No such customer shall be served more than a total of
three such cans or bottles of beer or wine during any one calendar day.
         (b)   Not more than 25% of the gross revenues from the Class S
licensee’s business operations during any 12-month period shall be derived from
the sale of beer or wine permitted by the Class S license. All Class S
licensees shall maintain documentation demonstrating compliance with the
foregoing standard available for inspection on the request of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
         (c)   The size of the licensed premises for which a Class S license
may be issued shall be not less than 900 square feet nor more than 2,100 square
feet. Not more than 15% of the premises for which a Class S license is issued
may be used for the conduct of Class S licensee licensed activities, including
service/prep/storage areas and customer patron seating/consumption areas. No
portion of the Class S premises shall contain any bar or like structure or
article of furniture at which any customer or patron of the licensed premises
would be permitted to stand or sit for the purpose of consuming beer or wine
otherwise permitted to be sold and served by a Class S licensee; provided,
however, that subject to the foregoing, a Class S licensee may provide a
service counter or bar for the exclusive use of staff of the Class S licensee
in connection with the storage, preparation and service of beer or wine
otherwise permitted to be sold by the licensee, and may provide couches, lounge
chairs or comparable furniture for seating for customers or patrons of the
licensee while consuming beer or wine otherwise permitted to be sold by the
Class S licensee.
         (d)   The sale for on-premises consumption of bottled or canned beer
or wine by a Class S licensee shall be incidental to the conduct by the Class S
licensee of the business of a salon or spa, or an establishment providing
instruction and or space for the conduct of artistic activities, including, but
not necessarily limited to, painting, drawing, sculpting or other crafts.
Except as otherwise necessarily required or contemplated by the preceding
sentence, no live entertainment shall be permitted on the premises of a Class S
licensee.
         (e)   Class S licensees shall be ineligible to apply for or receive a
video gaming endorsement under the provisions of this chapter, and shall
further be prohibited from conducting any raffles or any other form of gaming
or gambling on the licensed premises, whether or not otherwise allowed or
permitted by state law or regulation.
         (f)   No food shall be prepared on the premises of a Class S licensee,
but a Class S licensee shall be permitted to serve food to patrons that has
been prepared off of the premises of the Class S licensee.
         (g)   No Class S licensee shall contract with, make arrangements with
or otherwise cause any food truck licensed or required to be licensed under
this code from conducting its ordinary business operations at any location
within the vicinity of the Class S licensed premises, including, but not
limited to, any parking area available for use by the customers of the Class S
licensed premises.
         (h)   No Class S licensee shall cause, sponsor or permit the conduct
of any special event or gathering outside of or at any location within the
vicinity of the licensed premises, including, but not limited to, any parking
area available for use by customers of the Class S licensed premises.
         (i)   All beer or wine to be served by a Class S licensee shall be
served by an employee of the licensee who has successfully completed a T.I.P.S.
alcohol training and certification course conducted by the Police Department or
a B.A.S.S.E.T. program approved by the State Liquor Control Commission within a
period of one year immediately prior to the date(s) during which the Class S
licensee proposes to serve such beer or wine as herein contemplated.
   (AA)   A promotional endorsement may be issued to a holder of a Class E
license or a Class R license to permit the tasting or sampling of alcoholic
liquor for promotional purposes, on a temporary and intermittent basis for not
more than three consecutive or non-consecutive days per month, where no direct
or indirect charge is imposed in connection therewith. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no holder of a Class E license shall be authorized to apply for or
receive a promotional endorsement unless such licensee has a primary business
purpose other than the retail sale of alcoholic liquors, which purpose is other
than the retail sale of gasoline or similar fuels for motor vehicles and
occupies licensed premises consisting of not less than 14,000 square feet in
area devoted primarily to the sale of products other than alcoholic liquor. No
portion of alcoholic liquor provided by the endorsement holder for sampling or
tasting purposes shall exceed one ounce in volume of wine, two ounces of beer
or one-quarter ounce of any other alcoholic liquor, and no individual person
may be provided more than three such tasting or sampling portions during a
given calendar day. The sampling or tasting shall be attended and supervised by
a full-time employee of the licensee and only in a designated area on the
licensed premises, and shall be subject to such further regulation as deemed
necessary by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No Class E or Class R
licensee shall permit the tasting or sampling of any alcoholic liquor on the
licensed premises without first having obtained a promotional endorsement as
herein specified. The annual fee for a Class E or Class R promotional
endorsement shall be $100.
   (BB)   (1)   A Class U license shall authorize the production, storage and
retail sale of artisan wine for on-premises consumption in accordance with the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, the sale of artisan wine for off-
premises consumption as hereinafter provided and the sale of beer and spirits
for on-premises consumption. As used herein, ARTISAN WINE means wine that is
manufactured and prepared on the premises of the Class U licensee.
      (2)   The activities authorized herein to a Class U licensee shall be
subject to the following terms and conditions.
         (a)   All artisan wine sold for off-premises consumption shall be sold
in containers sealed by the Class U licensee.
         (b)   A Class U licensee shall demonstrate to the village that it
possesses a manufacturer’s license issued by the state for the manufacture of
artisan wine.
         (c)   A Class U licensee shall maintain a menu of food items prepared
to order for customers of the Class U licensee by the staff of the Class U
licensee.
         (d)   All alcohol to be served or sold by a Class U licensee to
patrons shall be served or sold by an employee of the Class U licensee who has
successfully completed a T.I.P.S. alcohol training and certification course
conducted by the Police Department or a B.A.S.S.E.T. program approved by the
State Liquor Control Commission within a period of one year immediately prior
to the date of the sale or service of the alcohol in question.
         (e)   A Class U license shall also permit complimentary on-premises
consumption of artisan wine for promotional or sampling purposes in conjunction
with promotional efforts occurring on the licensed premises, which efforts may
be conducted on a daily basis. The sampling shall be attended and supervised by
an employee of the Class U licensee and shall be subject to such further
regulation as deemed necessary by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No
person shall be served more than 12 ounces of artisan wine for complimentary
sampling during a given calendar day.
         (f)   A Class U licensee may conduct special events on the Class U
licensed premises (including that part of the premises located outside of the
principal building or structure used for the conduct of the Class U licensee’s
business) not more frequently than four times per year, and each such special
event shall not exceed two days in duration. Class U licensees may provide live
entertainment in connection with the conduct of such special events, Class U
licensees shall provide reasonable prior notice of all such special events to
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and shall conduct the same in compliance
with all applicable village ordinances, and in compliance with the conditions
of the village special event permit. All such special events involving the use
of any outdoor portion of the licensed premises for live entertainment shall
conclude not later than the hour of 9:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday, and
not later than the hour of 10:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday.
         (g)   In addition to the conduct of special events as set forth above,
Class U licensees shall be permitted to have live entertainment on the outdoor
portion of the Class U licensed premises during the months of May through
September; provided that all such live entertainment shall conclude not later
than the hour of 6:00 p.m. No special event permit shall be required for the
provision of live entertainment pursuant to this division (BB)(2)(g).
         (h)   Class U licensees shall also be permitted to make portions of
the Class U licensed premises available from time to time as a bona fide event
space. As used herein, a BONA FIDE EVENT SPACE means any wholly indoor space
within a building operated and continuously made available as a space for
customers to rent on a short-term basis for the conduct of private, invitation
only events, the attendance at which is limited to guests or invitees
specifically invited by the customer renting the space in question. The Class U
licensee may further permit renters or users of the Class U bona fide event
space to arrange for catered food to be served to renters, invitees and guests
using a bona fide event space, or to permit such renters, invitees and guests
to arrange for catered food or food prepared off-premises to be brought to and
consumed on the premises of the bona fide event space by the renters thereof
and their guests and invitees.
      (i)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, Class U
licensees shall only be permitted to sell or serve alcoholic beverages between
the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.; provided, however, that a Class U
licensee using the part of the premises located outside of the principal
building or structure used for the conduct of the Class U licensee’s business
for special events or the provision of live entertainment shall cease any such
use of such part of the premises at 9:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday, and
at 10:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 112.33) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 386, passed 1-16-1974;
Ord. 505, passed 8-18-1976; Ord. 836, passed 11-3-1982; Ord. 2249-94, passed 1-
5-1994; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-1998; Ord. 2556-98, passed 5-6-1998; Ord.
2671-99, passed 6-21-1999; Ord. 2704-99, passed 40-6-1999; Ord. 2780-00, passed
7-19-2000; Ord. 2787-00, passed 9-6-2000; Ord. 0068-02, passed 9-18-2002; Ord.
09-0797, passed 11-18-2009; Ord. 11-0913, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 12-0978, passed
4-18-2012; Ord. 14-1114, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 15-1183, passed 3-18-2015; Ord.
15-1200, passed 8-5-2015; Ord. 15-1231, passed 11-18-2015; Ord. 16-1262, passed
3-2-2016; Ord. 16-1274, passed 4-20-2016; Ord. 16-1275, passed 4-20-2016; Ord.
16-1299, passed 7-6-2016; Ord. 19-1551, passed 3-20-2019; Ord. 19-1552, passed
3-20-2019; Ord. 19-1553, passed 3-20-2019; Ord. 19-1583, passed 7-7-2019; Ord.
19-1595, passed 9-18-2019; Ord. 21-1711, passed 7-21-2021; Ord. 22-1765, passed
3-16-2022; Ord. 22-1780, passed 5-18-2022; Ord. 22-1789, passed 8-17-2022; Ord.
22-1793, passed 9-7-2022; Ord. 23-1851, passed 5-3-2023; Ord. 24-1897, passed
1-17-2024; Ord. 24-1905, passed 3-6-2024; Ord. 24-1907, passed 3-20-2024; Ord.
24-1944, passed 11-20-2024; Ord. 25-2000, passed 8-20-2025; Ord. 25-2009,
passed 9-17-2025; Ord. 25-2014, passed 11-5-2025) Penalty, see §
112.999
Cross-reference:
   Late hour permit, hours of sale, see §
112.007
§ 112.054 LICENSE ENDORSEMENTS.
   Any licensee in one of the hereinafter enumerated liquor license
classifications that is in full and current compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, all other applicable ordinances of the village and the applicable
laws of the state, may, upon application to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, obtain an annual endorsement to the license to permit the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor from the licensed premises upon the additional
conditions set forth in the endorsement. The application shall be made in
substantially the form required pursuant to §
112.051, and upon payment of a non-refundable administrative fee by certified
or cashier’s check in the amount of $50 to cover the administrative costs of
processing the application. Upon approval of an application for a license
endorsement, successful applicants shall be required to pay by certified or
cashier’s check the endorsement fee for the relevant endorsement. Endorsements
shall be valid for the same duration as the underlying license and shall be
subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this section, as well as all
other provisions of this chapter pertaining to licenses and licensees.
   (A)   Class E-1 promotional endorsement. A Class E-1 promotional endorsement
may be issued to a holder of a Class E license to permit the tasting or
sampling of alcoholic liquor for promotional purposes, on a temporary and
intermittent basis, where no direct or indirect charge is imposed in connection
therewith, where the Class E licensee occupies licensed premises of at least
1,000 square foot but less than 14,000 square feet in area, which premises are
primarily devoted to the sale of alcoholic beverages for off premises
consumption, and no portion of which shall be used in any way for the retail
sale of gasoline or similar fuels for motor vehicles. No portion of alcoholic
liquor provided for sampling or tasting purposes shall exceed one ounce in
volume of wine, two ounces of beer or one-quarter ounce of any other alcoholic
liquor and no individual person may be provided more than three such tasting or
sampling portions during a given calendar day. The sampling or tasting shall be
attended and supervised by a full-time employee of the licensee and only in a
designated area on the licensed premises, and shall be subject to such further
regulation as deemed necessary by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. No
Class E licensee within the parameters set forth herein for eligibility to
apply for a Class E-1 promotional endorsement shall permit the tasting or
sampling of any alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises without first having
obtained a promotional endorsement as herein specified. Class E-1 promotional
endorsements shall be issued on an annual basis, at an annual fee of $150.
   (B)   Classes A, B and C - off-premises sale endorsement. An off-premises
sale endorsement may be issued to the holder of a Class A, Class B or Class C
license to permit the licensee to sell beer and wine in the original package
for consumption at a location other than the licensed premises, subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   No beer or wine may be sold by any licensee pursuant to an off-
premises sale endorsement unless:
         (a)   In the case of beer, the original package in which such beer is
sold consists of at least one single manufacturer prepackaged unit consisting
of not less than four manufacturer sealed cans or bottles containing not less
than 12 ounces volume each, or containing the same or greater total volume in
sealed cans, bottles, barrels or kegs none of which shall be less than 12
ounces volume each; or
         (b)   In the case of wine, the original package in which such wine is
sold consists of at least one single sealed package, container or its
functional equivalent containing not less than 750 mL.
      (2)   No beer or wine may be sold by any licensee pursuant to an off-
premises sale endorsement on any day between the hours 10:00 p.m. to 10:00
a.m., regardless of whether or not the licensee is otherwise allowed to sell
alcoholic beverages pursuant to the terms of its Class A, B or C license. All
beer or wine sold pursuant to an off-premises sale endorsement must be
manufactured at an offsite location other than the licensed premises. No holder
of a Class A, B or C license shall sell any beer or wine for off-premises
consumption without first having obtained an off-premises sale endorsement as
herein specified, and not more than 5% of the annual gross revenues of the
licensee shall be derived from the sale of beer or wine pursuant to an off-
premises sale endorsement. Licensees holding such endorsements shall maintain
documentation sufficient to allow the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to
readily determine compliance with this requirement. The annual fee for a Class
A, B or C off-premises sale endorsement shall be $100.
   (C)   Class G full-service hotel endorsements; room service and mini-bar
service. A room service endorsement or a mini-bar service endorsement, or both
of them, may be issued to the holder of a Class G license. A room service
endorsement shall permit the licensee to sell at retail and deliver alcoholic
liquor to guests in individual rooms during such hours as alcoholic liquor is
otherwise permitted to be sold by the Class G licensee; provided, however, that
the Class G licensee must maintain a menu for food service to individual rooms
consisting of meals prepared on the premises during all times when alcoholic
liquor is being sold and delivered to individual guest rooms pursuant to a room
service endorsement. A mini-bar service endorsement shall authorize the
licensee to place one locked refrigerator unit not in excess of 4.4 cubic feet
in capacity containing alcoholic liquor for sale for consumption on the
premises (a “mini-bar”) in each individual guest room of the full-service hotel
operated by the licensee, and to provide the key for a given unit upon request
to a paid guest 21 years of age or older registered to the room in which such
unit is located. The annual fee for a room service endorsement shall be $200
and the annual fee for a mini-bar endorsement shall be $200.
   (D)   Video gaming terminal location endorsements.
      (1)   Requirements. A video gaming terminal location endorsement may be
issued to the holder of a Class A, Class B, Class C, Class D, Class G, Class G-
1 or Class P license that holds a current and valid license from the state and/
or the State Gaming Board pursuant to the provisions of the Video Gaming Act
(230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.) and the provisions of applicable regulations
promulgated from time to time by the State Gaming Board permitting the holder
to operate one or more video gaming terminals within the licensed premises. All
applicants for a video gaming terminal location endorsement must at all times
offer or have available a selection of food and nonalcoholic beverages prepared
to customer order on the licensed premises, and for immediate consumption by
the customer on such premises; provided that the preceding requirement shall
not apply to holders of Class G-1 licenses. Class G and Class G-1 licensees
shall only be eligible to receive video gaming terminal location endorsements
if the location of the proposed video gaming terminals is in a physically
distinct room or space capable of being observed by hotel staff, but which is
otherwise screened from view of the general common areas of the hotel (such as
the lobby or breakfast area). A separate video gaming terminal endorsement
shall be required to be issued for each video gaming terminal sought to be
operated from within the licensed premises. For purposes of the enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter (including, but not limited to, the taking of
any action by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner pursuant to § 112.081), any
violation by a licensee holding one or more video gaming terminal location
endorsements of any provision of the Video Gaming Act, the regulations
promulgated thereunder by the State Gaming Board or any provision of any
village ordinances applicable to the licensee’s conduct of business (including,
but not limited to, the provisions of Chapters 110 and 157, and the provisions
of any special use permit issued to the licensee or with respect to the
licensed premises) shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. No
licensee under this chapter may apply for, receive or hold more than six video
gaming terminal endorsements at any time. Licensees applying for new or initial
video gaming terminal location endorsements shall make application in such form
as shall be from time to time prescribed by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, and shall be subject to an application fee as provided for in
Chapter 43. The annual fee for each video gaming terminal location endorsement
shall be $250; provided, however, that the annual fee shall be shared equally
by the licensee holding the video gaming terminal location endorsement and the
person or entity licensed by the state as the video gaming terminal operator
with respect to the video gaming terminals placed at the licensed premises,
with $125 payable by the licensee holding the video gaming terminal location
endorsement and $125 payable by the person or entity licensed by the state as
the video gaming terminal operator with respect to the video gaming terminals
placed at the licensed premises.
      (2)   Restrictions and limitations on the issuance of certain video
gaming terminal location endorsements.
         (a)   As of the date on which the village adopts the ordinance
providing for the creation of this division (D)(2)(a), there shall be a
limitation on the number of video gaming terminal locations endorsements issued
to holders of Class A, B, C or D licenses, with the initial number of such
video gaming terminal location endorsements available being equal to the then-
existing number of video gaming terminal locations endorsements issued to then-
existing Class A, B, C and D licensees. Class A, B, C and D licensees holding
video gaming terminal location endorsements as of the date on which the village
adopts the ordinance providing for the creation of this division (D)(2) shall
be entitled to continue to renew such video gaming terminal location
endorsements as they may then hold, subject to ongoing compliance with the
otherwise applicable ordinances. In the event that any Class A, B, C or D
licensee shall, for whatever reason, fail to renew any video gaming terminal
location endorsements then held, the number of such nonrenewed video gaming
terminal location endorsements shall be subtracted from the number of video
gaming terminal location endorsements otherwise available under this division
(D)(2)(a); provided, however, that the Board may from time to time vote to make
available and permit the issuance by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner of
such endorsements to new applicants for such endorsements up to a total amount
of such endorsements equal to the number of such endorsements issued and in
existence as of the date on which the Board adopts the ordinances creating this
division (D)(2)(a), and the holders of such video gaming terminal location
endorsements shall be exempt from complying with the financial revenue
standards set forth in division (D)(2)(b) of this section.
         (b)   After the issuance of that number of video gaming terminal
location endorsements equal to the number of such endorsements issued and in
existence as of the date on which the Board adopts the ordinances creating
division (D)(2)(a) above, the number of additional video gaming terminal
location endorsements available for issuance shall be as set forth from time to
time by duly adopted village ordinance; provided, however, that such video
gaming terminal location endorsements shall only be available for issuance to
holders of Class A, B, C or D licenses who demonstrate in their written
application for video gaming terminal location endorsements that the business
at which such video gaming terminals are intended to be located and operated is
realistically likely and actually intended to generate 50% or more of its gross
revenues from sales of food or beverages, or activities other than video gaming
activities, and shall provide such further information as the Village Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall from time to time request in support thereof.
Class A, B, C or D licensees that receive video gaming terminal location
endorsements shall be obligated to continually comply with the aforementioned
requirements that 50% of the gross revenues of such licensees be generated by
sources of revenue other than video gaming revenue, and the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall be entitled to reasonable access to the books and
records of the licensees for purposes of auditing and verifying such ongoing
compliance.
      (3)   Video gaming terminal signage prohibited. In any case where the
licensee seeking a video gaming terminal endorsement proposes to operate video
gaming terminals as an accessory use to another principal use or business
conducted on the licensed premises, the licensee and endorsement holder shall
be prohibited from installing any permanent exterior signage that advertises,
holds out or promotes the accessory gaming use.
      (4)   Number of video gaming endorsements. Notwithstanding any contrary
provision of this section, the total number of video gaming endorsements that
shall be available for issuance during any given calendar year shall be 152.
   (E)   Class A/B special event endorsement. A Class A/B special event
endorsement may be issued to any holder of a duly issued Class A or Class B
liquor license who has contracted with the holder of or applicant for any Class
H special event license or any Class L or Class L-1 license for the provision
of all goods and services required in connection with the service or sale of
alcoholic beverages at the special event to be conducted by the Class H
licensee or the Class L or Class L-1 licensee. Class A/B special event
endorsements shall be valid for a period of one year, but shall only authorize
the holders thereof to sell and serve alcoholic beverages in conjunction with
the conduct of a special event held and conducted by a Class H licensee, or by
a Class L or Class L-1 licensee. In addition to the foregoing, a Class A/
B special event endorsement may also be issued to any holder of a Class A,
Class B or Class L-1 license who has contracted with the village to provide
concession, catering or food services/sales from and on village property in
connection with the conduct of village-sponsored events or activities, and any
such concessionaire, caterer or food service contractor shall be permitted to
sell and serve for on-premises consumption only such forms of alcoholic
beverages as are otherwise permitted to be served and sold pursuant to the
underlying Class A, Class B or Class L-1 license. The holder of a Class A/
B special event endorsement shall, in addition to any other applicable
provisions of this chapter or this code, be responsible for complying in full
with all ordinance requirements, license conditions and other requirements
applicable to Class H licensees or Class L or Class L-1 licensees. The annual
fee for a Class A/B special event endorsement shall be $100.
   (F)   Delivery endorsement for licensees.
      (1)   Any holder of a valid license or endorsement issued under §
112.053 which by its terms permits sales of alcoholic liquor for off-premises
consumption shall be eligible to obtain upon application an endorsement to
permit the licensee to engage in the delivery and shipment of alcoholic liquor
for use or consumption and not for resale except as the same may be otherwise
restricted or prohibited by §§ 5/6-18, 5/6-29 or 5/6-29.1 of the Illinois
Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235 ILCS 5/6-18, 5/6-29 or 5/6-29.1,
respectively.
      (2)   As used herein, SHIP or SHIPPING shall mean and refer to the
movement of alcoholic liquor from a licensee to a consumer via the use of a
common carrier, and DELIVER or DELIVERY shall exclude the use of common
carriers, and shall only mean and refer to the movement of alcoholic liquor to
a consumer by any of the following methods:
         (a)   Delivery within the licensee’s parking area serving the licensed
premises;
         (b)   Delivery by any owner, officer, director, shareholder, member,
manager or employee of the licensee; or
         (c)   Delivery via the use of a third party contractor, independent
contractor or agent with whom the licensee has contracted to make such
deliveries of alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   All deliveries of alcoholic liquor made pursuant to a delivery
endorsement shall be made only within 12 hours from the time the alcoholic
liquor leaves the licensed premises of the retailer for delivery.
      (4)   All deliveries and shipments of alcoholic liquor made under a
delivery endorsement shall be made in compliance with the requirements of §§ 5/
6-18, 5/6-29 or 5/6-29.1 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934, being 235
ILCS 5/6-18, 5/6-29 or 5/6-29.1, respectively, including, but not limited to,
the following requirements.
         (a)   All packages containing alcoholic liquor shall be clearly and
prominently labeled with the following warning: “CONTAINS ALCOHOL. SIGNATURE OF
PERSON 21 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER REQUIRED FOR DELIVERY. PROOF OF AGE AND
IDENTITY MUST BE SHOWN BEFORE DELIVERY.”
         (b)   Licensees shall require common carriers and/or the licensee’s
own personnel to obtain the signature of a person 21 years old or older at the
delivery/shipment address and to verify the age and identity of the signer.
         (c)   Licensees shall be responsible at their expense to obtain
shipping certifications from any common carrier used to ship alcoholic liquor
certifying the location and time of shipment and the name and signature of a
person 21 years or older at the shipping address who accepts the shipment, and
shall generate and maintain like certifications for deliveries made using the
licensee’s own personnel as hereinabove described.
      (5)   All holders of delivery endorsements issued hereunder shall be
further required to verify that the receipt of a delivery or shipment of
alcoholic liquor is allowed by the laws and local ordinances of the location
where the delivery or shipment of alcoholic liquor is to be made, and no holder
of a delivery endorsement issued hereunder shall be authorized or permitted by
such endorsement to make any delivery or shipment of alcoholic liquor to any
location where the receipt of the same would violate any applicable law or
local ordinance. Holders of delivery endorsements hereunder shall be liable for
any violations of this chapter or of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 made by any
common carrier in connection with the shipment of alcoholic liquor hereunder or
made by any of the retailer’s own personnel conducting any delivery of
alcoholic liquor hereunder. The annual fee for a delivery endorsement pursuant
to this section shall be $100.
(Prior Code, § 112.33A) (Ord. 11-0913, passed 7-6-2011; Ord. 12-0978, passed 4-
18-2012; Ord. 12-1021, passed 12-19-2012; Ord. 15-1183, passed 3-18-2015; Ord.
15-1200, passed 8-5-2015; Ord. 15-1231, passed 11-18-2015; Ord. 16-1273, passed
4-20-2016; Ord. 17-1443, passed 12-20-2017; Ord. 18-1477, passed 4-18-2018;
Ord. 19-1618, passed 12-18-2019; Ord. 21-1694, passed 4-7-2021; Ord. 21-1726,
passed 10-6-2021; Ord. 22-1751, passed 1-5-2022; Ord. 22-1753, passed 1-5-2022;
Ord. 22-1801, passed 11-15-2022; Ord. 22-1815, passed 12-7-2022; Ord. 23-1825,
passed 2-15-2023; Ord. 23-1829, passed 3-1-2023; Ord. 24-1902, passed 3-6-2024;
Ord. 24-1920, passed 6-12-2024; Ord. 24-1923, passed 6-26-2024; Ord. 24-1954,
passed 12-4-2024; Ord. 24-1958, passed 12-18-2024; Ord. 25-1962, passed 1-15-
2025; Ord. 25-1972, passed 4-16-2025; Ord. 25-1997, passed 8-20-2025; Ord. 25-
2000, passed 8-20-2025; Ord. 25-2014, passed 11-5-2025) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.055 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, the total number of
licenses of each license classification that shall be available for issuance
during any given calendar year shall be as follows:
   (A)   Class A: 17 licenses;
   (B)   Class B: 18 licenses;
   (C)   Class C: eight licenses;
   (D)   Class D: one license;
   (E)   Class E: 27 licenses;
   (F)   Class F: one license;
   (G)   Class G: zero licenses;
   (H)   Class G-1: two licenses;
   (I)   Class H: five Class H licenses shall be available during any given
calendar year, but not more than one Class H license shall be in effect and
outstanding at any given time;
   (J)   Class I: three Class I licenses shall be available to each holder of a
Class A, B, C, D, F or G license during any given calendar year, but not more
than six Class I licenses shall be issued for any given day within a given
calendar year, and not more than one Class I license shall be issued to an
applicant for any given day within a given calendar year;
   (K)   Class J: five Class J licenses shall be available during any given
calendar year, subject to the conditions set forth in §
112.053(N);
   (L)   Class K: zero licenses. No holder of a Class K license shall hold any
other classification of license during such time as the holder’s Class K
license remains in full force and effect;
   (M)   Class L: zero licenses;
   (N)   Class L-2: one license;
   (O)   Class M-1: one license;
   (P)   Class N: one license;
   (Q)   Class O: one license;
   (R)   Class P: one license;
   (S)   Class Q-1: zero licenses;
   (T)   Class R: zero licenses;
   (U)   Class S: one license; and
   (V)   Class U: one license.
(Prior Code, § 112.34) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 538, passed 7-6-1977;
Ord. 703, passed 12-19-1979; Ord. 837, passed 11-3-1982; Ord. 2091-91, passed
2-6-1991; Ord. 2190-92, passed 6-17-1992; Ord. 2203-93, passed 3-3-1993; Ord.
2395-96, passed 2-7-1996; Ord. 2408-96, passed 3-6-1996; Ord. 2430-96, passed
7-17-1996; Ord. 2453, passed 12-30-1996; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-1998; Ord.
2556-98, passed 5-6-1998; Ord. 2612-98, passed 10-12-1998; Ord. 2623-99, passed
2-1-1999; Ord. 2638-99, passed 3-1-1999; Ord. 2741-00, passed 4-15-2000; Ord.
2780-00, passed 7-19-2000; Ord. 2787-00, passed 9-6-2000; Ord. 34-01, passed 2-
21-2001; Ord. 55-01, passed 4-18-2001; Ord. 58-01, passed 5-2-2001; Ord. 79-01,
passed 7-18-2001; Ord. 0055-02, passed 9-5-2002; Ord. 0068-02, passed 9-18-
2002; Ord. 0049-03, passed 8-20-2003; Ord. 03-0095, passed 3-3-2004; Ord. 04-
0106, passed 4-7-2004; Ord. 04-0159, passed 7-7-2004; Ord. 04-0171, passed 8-4-
2004; Ord. 04-0173, passed 8-4-2004; Ord. 04-0193, passed 10-6-2004; Ord. 04-
0215, passed 11-3-2004; Ord. 04-0228, passed 12-1-2004; Ord. 06-0417, passed 6-
7-2006; Ord. 06-0430, passed 7-19-2006; Ord. 06-0456, passed 9-20-2006; Ord.
06-0472, passed 11-1-2006; Ord. 06-0475, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 06-0488,
passed 12-20-2006; Ord. 07-0590, passed 9-19-2007; Ord. 07-0604, passed 11-7-
2007; Ord. 07-0625, passed 1-16-2008; Ord. 08-0632, passed 2-6-2008; Ord. 08-
0643, passed 3-19-2008; Ord. 08-0662, passed 5-7-2008; Ord. 08-0707, passed 9-
3-2008; Ord. 09-0746, passed 2-4-2009; Ord. 09-0754, passed 3-18-2009; Ord. 09-
0790, passed 10-7-2009; Ord. 09-0801, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 09-0812, passed
1-6-2010; Ord. 10-0836, passed 3-17-2010; Ord. 10-0837, passed 3-17-2010; Ord.
10-0838, passed 4-7-2010; Ord. 10-0871, passed 8-4-2010; Ord. 10-0874, passed
8-18-2010; Ord. 10-0896, passed 12-8-2010; Ord. 11-0917, passed 7-20-2011; Ord.
12-0964, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 12-0968, passed 3-7-2012; Ord. 12-1011, passed
10-2-2012; Ord. 12-1032, passed 12-19-2012; Ord. 13-1036, passed 1-16-2013;
Ord. 13-1058, passed 7-17-2013; Ord. 13-1063, passed 9-8-2013; Ord. 13-1067,
passed 10-9-2013; Ord. 13-1073, passed 12-18-2013; Ord. 14-1085, passed 1-15-
2014; Ord. 14-1091, passed 2-5-2014; Ord. 14-1093, passed 2-5-2014; Ord. 14-
1096, passed 3-5-2014; Ord. 14-1109, passed 4-2-2014; Ord. 14-1135, passed 9-
17-2014; Ord. 14-1146, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 15-1169, passed 1-21-2015; Ord.
15-1196, passed 7-1-2015; Ord. 15-1198, passed 7-15-2015; Ord. 15-1216, passed
9-8-2015; Ord. 15-1218, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 15-1232, passed 11-18-2015; Ord.
16-1258, passed 2-17-2016; Ord. 16-1268, passed 3-16-2016; Ord. 16-1305, passed
8-17-2016; Ord. 16-1323, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 17-1344, passed 1-4-2017; Ord.
17-1353, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 17-1360, passed 4-5-2017; Ord. 17-1378, passed
5-17-2017; Ord. 17-1379, passed 5-17-2017; Ord. 17-1390, passed 6-21-2017; Ord.
17-1401, passed 9-6-2017; Ord. 17-1417, passed 11-6-2017; Ord. 17-1421, passed
12-6-2017; Ord. 18-1463, passed 2-7-2018; Ord. 18-1468, passed 2-21-2018; Ord.
18-1471, passed 3-21-2018; Ord. 19-1556, passed 4-3-2019; Ord. 19-1558, passed
4-17-2019; Ord. 19-1594, passed 9-18-2019; Ord. 19-1616, passed 12-4-2019; Ord.
20-1623, passed 1-15-2020; Ord. 20-1648, passed 7-15-2020; Ord. 20-1660, passed
10-21-2020; Ord. 21-1692, passed 4-7-2021; Ord. 21-1700, passed 5-5-2021; Ord.
21-1710, passed 7-21-2021; Ord. 21-1733, passed 10-20-2021; Ord. 22-1752,
passed 1-5-2022; Ord. 22-1754, passed 1-19-2022; Ord. 22-1767, passed 3-16-
2022; Ord. 22-1776, passed 4-20-2022; Ord. 23-1839, passed 3-15-2023; Ord. 23-
1845, passed 4-19-2023; Ord. 24-1909, passed 3-20-2024; Ord. 24-1936, passed 9-
18-2024; Ord. 24-1954, passed 12-4-2024; Ord. 24-1959, passed 12-18-2024; Ord.
25-1962, passed 1-15-2025; Ord. 25-1968, passed 2-19-2025; Ord. 25-1978, passed
4-2-2025; Ord. 25-2005, passed 9-3-2025; Ord. 25-2009, passed 9-17-2025)
§ 112.056 LICENSES IN ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   Upon the annexation of any territory to the village, any person or entity
that, prior to the annexation, owned or operated any business or enterprise
engaged in the retail sale of any alcoholic beverages from any premises within
such territory shall immediately become fully subject to the provisions of all
ordinances of the village concerning alcoholic liquor, and any such person or
entity that desires to continue engaging in the retail sale of alcoholic
beverages from such premises subsequent to the annexation in question shall
first be required to apply for and receive a license therefor from the village.
(Prior Code, § 112.35) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-
1998) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.057 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   No licenses shall be issued under this chapter for a period of less than one
year, except that Class H, Class I, Class J and Class L licenses may be issued
for such durations as may otherwise be specified in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.36) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-
1998; Ord. 2556-98, passed 5-6-1998; Ord. 0068-02, passed 9-18-2002)
§ 112.058 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All license fees required by this subchapter shall be promptly turned over
to the Village Treasurer when paid. In the event the license applied for is
denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant. If the license is granted,
then the fee shall be deposited in the General Corporate Fund or in such other
fund as shall have been designated by the Village Board by proper action.
(Prior Code, § 112.37) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964)
§ 112.059 SELLING WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   No person or entity that is not the holder of a valid liquor license issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall engage in the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises from which such liquor is sold
or permit the consumption of any alcoholic liquor on such premises, except that
no person or entity shall be required to obtain a license under this chapter to
permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages by family members or guests on
premises owned or occupied by such entity so long as no direct or indirect
charge is made by the owner or occupant of such premises for such alcoholic
beverages. Moreover, no holder of any license issued under this chapter shall
engage in any activity whatsoever permitted to holders of licenses of different
classifications, unless the provisions of this chapter creating the
classification of license held by the licensee in question specifically permit
such activity.
(Prior Code, § 112.38) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-
1998; Ord. 2556-98, passed 5-6-1998; Ord. 2780-00, passed 7-19-2000; Ord. 0068-
02, passed 9-18-2002) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.060 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The President shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
licenses issued by them pursuant to this chapter and shall furnish the Clerk,
Treasurer and Chief of Police with a copy. On the issuance of any new license
or the revocation of any old license, the President shall give written notice
of the action to each of the officers within 48 hours of the action.
(Prior Code, § 112.39) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964)
§ 112.061 TRANSFERABILITY; PRIVILEGE ONLY.
   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall be purely a personal privilege, good
for one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as provided in this
subchapter. A license shall not constitute property nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution. A license shall not be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, nor shall it be subject to
encumbrance or hypothecation.
(Prior Code, § 112.40) (Ord 223, passed 1-8-1964) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.062 RENEWAL.
   Any licensee under this subchapter may renew their license when it expires;
provided that they are then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which the renewal license is sought are suitable for the purpose. The renewal
privilege shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case
prevent the President from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued
within their jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 112.41) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964)
§ 112.063 TRANSFER OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. The location may
be changed only on the written permit to make such change issued by the
President. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws
of this state, provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 112.42) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.064 LICENSE VALID ONLY IN SPECIFIC PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor at retail in the village at
any other place than in or on the premises described in the license issued.
(Prior Code, § 112.43) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.065 LIMITATIONS ON LOCATIONS OF RETAIL PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter for the retail sale of any
alcoholic liquors within 100 feet of any church, school (other than an
institution of higher learning), hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or
for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or naval station;
provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering
restaurant service, regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food shops or
other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on at the location in question.
(Prior Code, § 112.44) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-
1998; Ord. 2787-00, passed 9-6-2000) Penalty, see §
112.999
§ 112.066 REVOCATION.
   The President, as Local Liquor Commissioner, may revoke any retail dealer’s
license for any violation of any provisions of this chapter, for any violation
or misrepresentation of any material fact set forth in the application for
license or for violation of any state or federal law pertaining to the sale of
alcoholic liquor. Revocation of or failure to obtain a state or federal license
shall automatically revoke the village license.
(Prior Code, § 112.45) (Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964)
§ 112.067 RESPONSIBLE ALCOHOL SERVICE.
   All persons employed as alcohol servers by any licensee under this chapter
shall, on or before July 1, 2016 (or within 120 days of the commencement of
their employment, whichever is later), complete training in basic responsible
alcohol service as required by and in accordance with the provisions of the
Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/6-27.1. As used in this chapter, ALCOHOL
SERVER shall have the meaning set forth in said § 6-27.1. Consistent with said
§ 6-27.1, the provisions of this section shall not apply to any SPECIAL EVENT
RETAILER, as defined under the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-3.17.1,
but nothing herein shall exempt any such special event retailer or any other
licensee under this chapter from the application of any other provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.46) (Ord. 15-1207, passed 8-5-2015)
**** LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER ****
§ 112.080 DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The President of the village shall be the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and they shall have all the authority vested in the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner by state law and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
§§
112.050 through
112.066 may, in lieu of any revocation or suspension of license as provided in
§
112.066, be fined by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner no less than $300
nor more than $1,000 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. Not
more than $10,000 in fines may be imposed against any licensee during the
period of their license. Proceeds from any such fines shall be paid into the
General Corporate Fund of the village.
(Prior Code, § 112.50) (Ord. 794, passed 8-19-1981; Ord. 223, passed 1-8-1964;
Ord. 2410, passed 3-20-1996)
§ 112.081 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To grant, suspend and revoke for cause all licenses issued under this
chapter for premises within his jurisdiction;
   (B)   To enter into and to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time on any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of S.H.A. Chapter 43 or of this chapter or any rules and regulations
adopted by him or by the State Liquor Control Commissioner have been or are
being violated;
   (C)   To exercise all the powers, functions and duties which are now or
hereafter may be granted to them by S.H.A. Chapter 43, regulations of the State
Liquor Control Commission or by this chapter;
   (D)   To suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for cause any license
issued under this chapter after a hearing for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any laws of the state, of the United
States or of the village;
      (2)   The licensee has made any false statement as to a material fact in
the application for the license;
      (3)   The licensee has allowed or permitted any violation of state or
federal law or of the ordinances of the village by any person on the licensed
premises;
      (4)   The licensee has failed to use and maintain the licensed premises
in compliance with all codes and regulations pertaining to health and safety
applicable within the village, including, but not limited to, building,
plumbing, electrical and fire codes; property maintenance; zoning ordinances;
county health ordinances; and all regulations and orders of the County Health
Department;
      (5)   The suspension or revocation of the license of the licensee by the
State Commission;
      (6)   Permitting any gambling device or equipment used for the purpose of
gambling to be located on the licensed premises;
      (7)   The licensee has failed to pay any fee as required by this chapter
or is delinquent for a period of more than 45 days in any license fees, taxes
or bills currently due and owing the village; and
      (8)   The licensee has permitted any of its employees, managers or agents
to perform any of the acts or commit any of the violations described or
enumerated in this division (D).
   (E)   To examine or cause to be examined under oath any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof of any licensee on whom notice of
hearing has been served to hear testimony and to take proof for their
information in the performance of an investigation;
   (F)   To receive the complaint of any resident of the village and to
investigate the complaint or to investigate on his own initiative any alleged
violation of any law of the United States relating to the sale of alcoholic
liquor or any of the provisions of the S.H.A. Chapter 43 or the ordinances of
the village or any applicable rules and regulations adopted by them or by the
State Commission; and
   (G)   All hearings conducted before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall be recorded verbatim by a certified court reporter. Any appeal of a
decision of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall be taken solely on the
record of the proceedings made by the certified court reporter. No new or
additional evidence shall be presented to the State Liquor Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 112.51) (Ord. 794, passed 8-19-1981; Ord. 2387-95, passed 11-1-
1995; Ord. 2530-98, passed 1-21-1998)
§ 112.082 COMPENSATION.
   There shall be paid to the Liquor Control Commissioner an annual salary in
an amount as set forth by ordinance from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 112.52) (Ord. 794, passed 8-19-1981)
§ 112.083 APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTIES.
   The Liquor Control Commissioner may appoint three Deputy Liquor
Commissioners to assist them in their duties. The compensation of each Deputy
Liquor Commissioner shall be the amount as may be established by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 112.53) (Ord. 794, passed 8-19-1981)
§ 112.084 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Liquor Control Commissioner and Deputy Liquor Control Commissioners
shall be peace officers for the purposes of enforcing the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.54) (Ord. 794, passed 8-19-1981)
§ 112.085 LICENSE RECORDS; NOTICE OF ISSUANCE OR REVOCATION.
   The Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all licenses issued by them pursuant to this chapter. They shall
furnish the Village Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police with a copy thereof.
On the issuance of any new license or the revocation or suspension of any old
license, the Liquor Control Commissioner shall give written notice of the
action to each of these officers within 48 hours of the action.
(Prior Code, § 112.55) (Ord. 794, passed 8-19-1981)
§ 112.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of §§
112.001 through
112.08 or
112.025 through
112.032 shall be fined no less than $50 nor more than $750.
(Prior Code, § 112.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 113: RAFFLES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Eligibility for raffle license
   
113.04   Limitations
   
113.05   Restrictions
   
113.06   Applications
   
113.07   License fee
   
113.08   Submittal and approval
   
113.09   Records
   
113.10   Manager’s bond
   
113.11   Suspension or revocation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions contained in the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act, 230
ILCS 15/0.01 et seq., shall apply to this chapter, and in case of any conflict
between the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of the Illinois
Raffles and Poker Runs Act as amended, the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act
shall control.
   BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civil interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE. An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   CLASS A RAFFLE OR POKER RUN. A raffle or poker run, as herein defined, where
the prize(s) offered consists only of some form of tangible or intangible goods
or services which cannot be redeemed for or converted into cash with the raffle
licensee. The value of any individual prize in a CLASS A RAFFLE OR POKER RUN
shall not exceed $1,000, and the aggregate value of all prizes in a single
CLASS A RAFFLE OR POKER RUN shall not exceed $10,000.
   CLASS B RAFFLE OR POKER RUN. A raffle or poker run, as herein defined, where
the prize(s) offered consist solely of cash. The value of any individual prize
in a CLASS B RAFFLE OR POKER RUN shall not exceed $1,000, and the aggregate
value of all prizes in a single CLASS B RAFFLE OR POKER RUN shall not exceed
$5,000.
   CLASS C RAFFLE OR POKER RUN. A raffle or poker run, as herein defined, where
the prize(s) offered consist solely of cash. The value of any individual prize
in a CLASS C RAFFLE OR POKER RUN shall be any amount in excess of the permitted
Class B individual prize amount; provided, however, that if the amount of an
individual cash raffle prize cannot be determined prior to the sale of the
first chance or ticket for such raffle or prior to the start of the poker run,
then such raffle or poker run shall be deemed to be a CLASS C RAFFLE OR POKER
RUN, without regard to the eventual or ultimately determined amount of any
prize for such raffle or poker run. Likewise, the aggregate value of all cash
prizes awarded in a CLASS C RAFFLE OR POKER RUN shall be any amount in excess
of the permitted aggregate Class B prize amount; provided, however, that if the
aggregate value of all cash prizes in a given raffle or poker run cannot be
determined prior to the sale of the first chance or ticket for such raffle or
the start of such poker run, then such raffle or poker run shall be deemed to
be a CLASS C RAFFLE OR POKER RUN, without regard to the eventual or ultimately
determined aggregate amount of any prizes for such raffle or poker run.
   EDUCATIONAL. An organization or institution organized and operated to
provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common
to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope
and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported schools.
   FIRE PROTECTION AGENCY.
      (1)   An agency of this state, unit of local government or
intergovernmental mutual aid entity that is vested by law or intergovernmental
agreement with the duty and authority to provide public fire suppression,
rescue or emergency medical services; or
      (2)   An organization that provides support or assistance to an agency of
this state, unit of local government or intergovernmental mutual aid entity
that is vested by law or intergovernmental agreement with the duty and
authority to provide public fire suppression, rescue or emergency medical
services.
   FRATERNAL. An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
   GOVERNMENTAL. An entity that is a unit of local government under state law,
or some department, committee or commission thereof, where acting with the
knowledge and consent of the unit of local government in question, but no such
entity shall apply for or receive a Class C raffle license.
   KEY LOCATION.
      (1)   For a poker run, the location where the poker run concludes and the
prizes are awarded.
      (2)   For a raffle, the location where the winning chances in the raffle
are determined.
   LABOR. An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of or attaining a higher degree of efficiency in
their respective occupations.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. An agency of this state or a unit of local
government in this state that is vested by law or ordinance with the duty to
maintain public order and to enforce criminal laws or ordinances.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles or poker runs,
less reasonable sums expended for prizes, license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle or poker run.
   NON-PROFIT. An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
   POKER RUN. A prize-awarding event organized by an organization licensed
under this Act in which participants travel to multiple predetermined
locations, including a key location, to play a randomized game based on an
element of chance. POKER RUN includes dice runs, marble runs or other events
where the objective is to build the best hand or highest score by obtaining an
item or playing a randomized game at each location.
   RAFFLE.
      (1)   A form of lottery, as defined in subsection (b) of § 28-2 of the
Criminal Code of 2012, conducted by an organization licensed under this Act, in
which:
         (a)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a
chance, represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of
numbers or by some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be
designated the winning chance; and
         (b)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by
some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the
part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
      (2)   RAFFLE does not include any game designed to simulate:
         (a)   Gambling games as defined in the Illinois Gambling Act;
         (b)   Any casino game approved for play by the Illinois Gaming Board;
         (c)   Any games provided by a video gaming terminal, as defined in the
Video Gaming Act; or
         (d)   A savings promotion raffle authorized under § 5g of the Illinois
Banking Act, § 7008 of the Savings Bank Act, § 42.7 of the Illinois Credit
Union Act, § 5136B of the National Bank Act or § 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan
Act.
   RELIGIOUS. Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS. An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans of military service, the
primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of its members and to
provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to confer a public
benefit.
(Prior Code, § 112A.01) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct a raffle or poker run without
having first obtained a license therefor pursuant to this chapter and the
Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act, 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, political committees licensed to conduct a raffle from the State
Board of Elections shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter, and
shall be permitted to engage in such activities as may be permitted by the
terms of any such license so issued. Class A licenses shall be valid for one
year from the date of issuance, and shall permit the holder thereof to conduct
not more than one Class A raffle or poker run per month. Class B licenses shall
be valid for one year from the date of issuance and shall permit the holder
thereof to conduct not more than four Class B raffles or poker runs per month.
Class C licenses shall be valid for a period of one year, during which a Class
C licensee shall be permitted to conduct not more than one Class C raffle or
poker run at a given time; provided, however, that there shall otherwise be no
limitation on the number of raffles or poker runs that a Class C licensee may
conduct during a given calendar year. A single applicant/licensee may apply for
and, if otherwise eligible, simultaneously receive and hold Class A, Class B
and Class C raffle or poker run licenses, but no applicant shall hold more than
one license of any class at any given time.
(Prior Code, § 112A.02) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 ELIGIBILITY FOR RAFFLE LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational, governmental or veterans’
organizations, as defined in §
113.01, which operate without a profit to their members and which have been in
existence continuously for a period of five years immediately before making
application for a license and which have had during that entire five-year
period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives, or to a
non-profit fund raising organization organized for the sole purpose of
providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group of
individuals suffering extreme financial hardships as the result of an illness,
disability, accident or disaster. Licenses may also be issued to law
enforcement agencies and fire protection agencies.
   (B)   The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or
in which such a person is active or employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (B)(1), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not;
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (B)(1), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) above is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle, as defined in the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act; and
      (7)   Any person convicted of or found guilty of a violation of this
chapter, for a period of one year following the date of such conviction or
finding of guilty, and any organization in which any such person is to
participate in the management or operation of a raffle, as defined in the
Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act.
(Prior Code, § 112A.03) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018)
§ 113.04 LIMITATIONS.
   All licenses are subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   The individual and aggregate values of prizes for Class A, Class B and
Class C licensed activities shall be as respectively set forth therefor in §
113.01.
   (B)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle ticket or poker
run admission issued or sold is limited to $25 for a Class A raffle or poker
run, to $25 for a Class B raffle or poker run and $100 for a Class C raffle or
poker run.
   (C)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
is limited to 60 days for Class A and B raffles or poker runs. There shall be
no limitation on the number of days during which the holder of a valid Class C
license may issue or sell chances or admissions.
(Prior Code, § 112A.04) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 RESTRICTIONS.
   Raffles and poker runs are subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   Proceeds. The entire net proceeds of any raffle or poker run must be
exclusively devoted to the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to
conduct that raffle.
   (B)   Participation in management. No person except a bona fide member of
the sponsoring organization may participate in the management or operation of
the raffle or poker run.
   (C)   Remuneration. No person may receive any remuneration or profit for
participating in the management or operation of the raffle or poker run.
   (D)   Premises; owners of premises. A licensee may rent a premises on which
to determine the winning chance or chances in a raffle or to award the prizes
in a poker run; provided that the rent is not determined as a percentage of
receipts or profits from the raffle or poker run.
   (E)   Locations. There is no limitation on the locations from which raffle
tickets or poker run admissions may be sold. Wining tickets may be drawn or
determined only at the key location specified on the license application, and
poker run prizes may likewise only be awarded at the key location. All
locations involved in the conduct of a poker run shall be located within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (F)   Age. A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or poker runs only with the permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the area where
drawings are held or prizes are awarded only when accompanied by their parent
or guardian.
   (G)   Manager. All licensees must designate one member of the licensee
organization to serve as its manager. A manager shall be responsible for the
organization and conduct of the licensed activity generally, and shall further
be responsible for collecting and accounting for all proceeds, including, but
not limited to, payment of prizes, payment of applicable taxes and the
disposition in accordance with this chapter of the remaining proceeds accruing
to the licensee organization.
   (H)   Legal and tax compliance. All licensees shall comply with all
applicable laws and regulations pertaining to the conduct of licensed
activities, and the collection, payment of and accounting for prizes and
proceeds, including, but not limited to, all applicable state and federal
income tax laws and regulations.
   (I)   Class C proceeds. All Class C licensees shall devote not less than 90%
of the gross revenues from the sale of tickets or admissions for any given
licensed activity to the payment of prizes for such raffle, or for expenditures
consistent with and directly in furtherance of the stated mission or purposes
of the organization, to the exclusion of costs incurred in the conduct of the
activity itself and costs incurred by the licensee organization that do not
directly further the organization’s stated purpose or mission.
   (J)   Purchase of chances or admissions. No manager of any licensee or any
officer, director or other member of any licensee organization directly
participating in collecting, paying or accounting for proceeds shall be
permitted to purchase any ticket or admission in any activity conducted by the
licensee, or to receive any prize from any such activity.
(Prior Code, § 112A.05) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for a license shall be made on a form provided by the village
for such purpose and must contain at least the following information:
   (A)   Name of applicant;
   (B)   Address;
   (C)   Description of proposed licensed activity and purpose for same;
   (D)   Time period(s) during which tickets or admissions will be sold or
issued;
   (E)   Sworn statement attesting to not-for-profit character of the
prospective licensee organization, signed by presiding officer and secretary of
organization;
   (F)   Time(s) and location within the village at which winning ticket(s)
will be determined or prizes will be distributed; provided, however, that in
the event that an applicant does not know the time or location of the
determination of a winning ticket for a particular raffle at the time of
application, the application may nonetheless be reviewed and approved (if
otherwise in compliance with this chapter) upon the condition that the
applicant notify the village of the time and location of the determination of a
winning ticket for the raffle in question 15 days prior to the determination of
the winning ticket;
   (G)   The license fee;
   (H)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise to be awarded
at each activity;
   (I)   The maximum retail value of each prize or each specific type of prize
to be awarded by a licensee at each activity;
   (J)   The maximum amount to be charged for each raffle ticket or poker run
admission and the number of tickets or admissions to be issued and available
for sale for each raffle or poker run; and
   (K)   A statement signed by the organization and proposed manager of the
licensee organization consenting to the conduct of a criminal background check
of the organization, its officers, directors and members and the proposed
manager, to determine eligibility for licensure in accordance with §
113.03.
(Prior Code, § 112A.06) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018)
§ 113.07 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a license to conduct a raffle(s) or poker run(s) shall be $25
for a Class A or Class B license, and shall be $50 for a Class C license. No
application for a license will be approved prior to receipt of the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 112A.07) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018)
§ 113.08 SUBMITTAL AND APPROVAL.
   Applications may be filed in person at Village Hall, or by mail addressed to
the Village Clerk, Village of Romeoville, 1050 W. Romeo Road, Romeoville, IL
60446. Applications will be investigated and evaluated by the proper officers
of the village within ten days of the date of the receipt thereof, and the
applications, together with the results of such investigation and evaluation,
shall be forwarded to the Village President for a final decision on the
application, which decision shall be made within 30 days of the date on which
the village receives a completed application. If the application and related
investigations and evaluations demonstrate compliance with this chapter, the
Village President shall approve the application, endorse such approval on the
face of the application and so notify the applicant. An approved application
for a license shall constitute the license for the conduct of the activity
applied for by the applicant. If the application and related investigations and
evaluations fail to demonstrate compliance with this chapter, the Village
President shall deny the application. The applicant may appeal the denial of
the application by filing a written request for an appeal within ten days of
the date of the denial, and such appeal shall be heard by the village
administrative adjudication hearing officer not less than ten nor more than 45
days from the village’s receipt of the notice of appeal. The hearing on the
appeal shall be conducted under the applicable provisions of
Chapter 41, and the sole issue to be decided on such appeal shall be limited to
a determination of whether or not the license application as filed complied
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112A.08) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018)
§ 113.09 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct an activity shall keep such
records and shall also keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which winning tickets are
determined or prizes are distributed.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of each activity shall be segregated
from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross receipts, if
bingo games are also conducted by the same non-profit organization pursuant to
license therefor issued by the State Department of Revenue, and shall be placed
in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records of its
licensed activities. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expense and
net proceeds from the operation of licensed activities shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct activities shall report in
writing within 30 days after the conclusion of each activity to its membership,
and to the office of the Village Clerk, its gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from licensed activities, and the distribution of net proceeds
itemized as required in the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act, 230 ILCS 15/
0.01 et seq., and as may be required by this chapter. Where an organization is
licensed to conduct more than one raffle, the report may be filed within 30
days after the conclusion of the last raffle drawing.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved and made available
for inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Raffles and
Poker Runs Act, 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 112A.09) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 MANAGER’S BOND.
   All operations of and the conduct of licensed activities shall be under the
supervision of a single manager designated by the organization in its
application. The manager of the organization shall give a fidelity bond in an
amount equal to the aggregate value of the prizes to be awarded in favor of the
organization conditioned upon manager’s honesty in the performance of their
duties, unless the Village President waives this bond requirement at the
request of the licensed organization by including a waiver provision in the
license issued under this chapter; provided that a license containing such
waiver provision shall be requested and approved by unanimous vote of the
members of the licensed organization. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence,
fidelity bond waivers shall only be available to Class A and Class B license
applicants. All such bonds shall provide, as an express term thereof, that
notice shall be given in writing to the village not less than 30 days prior to
the cancellation or expiration of the bond. In the event that a Class C raffles
license applicant cannot determine the aggregate value of the prizes to be
awarded in a given raffle, the amount of the manager’s fidelity bond for such
license shall be set at an amount not less than $50,000, or double the amount
of the then-current aggregate prize value, as determined from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 112A.10) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018)
§ 113.11 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Licenses issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by a notice
thereof issued by the Village President if the licensee or any person managing
a licensed activity under any such license violates any provision of this
chapter, or any other applicable ordinance of the village or law of the state
or United States that reflects unfavorably on the fitness of the licensee or
its manager to conduct licensed activities. A licensee may appeal any such
suspension or revocation by filing a written request for an appeal within ten
days of the date of the denial, and such appeal shall be heard by the village
administrative adjudication hearing officer not less than ten nor more than 45
days from the village’s receipt of the notice of appeal. The hearing on the
appeal shall be conducted under the applicable provisions of
Chapter 41, and the sole issue to be decided on such appeal shall be limited to
a determination of whether or not grounds existed under this chapter for such
suspension or revocation.
(Prior Code, § 112A.11) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person that violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $150 nor more than $750 for each such
violation, in addition to any license suspension, revocation or other
enforcement action otherwise available to the village under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112A.99) (Ord. 18-1460, passed 2-7-2018)
CHAPTER 114: HAWKERS, PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Purpose
   
114.03   Scope
   
114.04   Registration required
   
114.05   Miscellaneous regulations
   
114.06   Records and notices
   
114.07   Prohibited acts
   
114.08   Uninvited solicitors
   
114.09   License revocation
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRATUITOUS DISTRIBUTION. General distribution within the village of printed
or duplicated material, merchandise or samples in the absence of requests or
invitations on the part of the recipients. Mere acceptance by recipients does
not by itself alter the character of GRATUITOUS DISTRIBUTION. This definition
does not apply to distributions effected through the United States Mail nor to
distributions effected at places other than private residences.
   HAWKER. Any person who offers for sale, barter or exchange any goods, wares,
merchandise or food, whether from a vehicle or hand-carried from place to
place, as a peddler, or from a temporary stand, and who advertises their
offerings by a continuous or intermittent outcry, horn, whistle, bell, rattle,
drum or other audible signal, or with a display of lights or signs.
   PEDDLER. Any person who offers for sale, barter or exchange any goods,
wares, merchandise or food, while traveling from place to place on, along or
upon the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the village, or at the doors of
private residences, either from a vehicle or hand-carried.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who approaches, or offers or attempts to approach,
other persons with whom they are not acquainted, individually and in
succession, in order to importune them for any purpose with any offer, promise,
plea or request of any nature, regardless of the kind, pattern, system or means
of approach pursued.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR or ITINERANT MERCHANT. Every person transiently or
temporarily engaged in the business of selling, bartering or exchanging, or
offering for sale, barter or exchange, any goods, wares or merchandise. The
words TRANSIENTLY and TEMPORARILY shall be construed to apply to cases in which
the person can furnish no bona fide commercial address within the village where
they have the right of occupancy under ownership, lease or rental agreement of
at least three months’ duration.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 1004-87, passed 7-22-1987)
§ 114.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the policy of the village to regulate the activities of peddlers,
hawkers, transient vendors of merchandise, itinerant merchants, door-to-door
solicitors and door-to-door distributors of gratuitous material, in such a way
as to be fully apprised of such activities and to protect the right of
residents and other persons within the village to peaceful enjoyment of privacy
and freedom from harassment. No restraint of trade and no detriment to
beneficial causes is intended by this policy, other than as necessary and
appropriate to ensure the convenience and domestic tranquility of such
residents and persons.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 1004-87, passed 7-22-1987)
§ 114.03 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to all peddlers, hawkers, transient vendors,
itinerant merchants, solicitors and persons engaged in gratuitous distribution,
and to their agents and employees, regardless of the purpose or motive of their
activities, whether for profit or for religious, charitable, benevolent,
philanthropic, patriotic, political or eleemosynary purposes, except that it
shall not apply to newscarriers, to persons seeking to collect legitimate
amounts due, to any government agency or official thereof in the pursuit of
official duties, nor to entities operating under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued by the State Commerce Commission or Federal
Communications Commission. This chapter shall also not apply to members or
designated representatives of the press engaged in traditional noncommercial
press functions or to persons or organizations specifically exempted from this
chapter by virtue of federal legislation or preemptive legislation passed by
the state.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 1004-87, passed 7-22-1987)
§ 114.04 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   At least seven days prior to the commencement of a proposed period of
peddling, hawking, transient vending, itinerant merchandising, solicitation or
gratuitous distribution, no person proposing such activity shall fail to apply
at the Village Hall for a certificate of registration. Applicants shall be
prepared to furnish, on a form provided, such information as may be required by
the Board of Trustees in order to establish the reliability, character and
accountability to the applicant, as well as the exact nature of the proposed
activity and its proposed extent and duration. The form of application shall
include a clause consenting to independent verification of the applicant’s
statements, and a clause agreeing to abide by the terms and regulations
prescribed in this chapter and by the terms of any license issued thereunder.
   (B)   In the case of religious, charitable, benevolent, philanthropic,
patriotic, political or eleemosynary organizations; of social and service
organizations organized within the village; and of village residents, the
requirement in division (A) above that applications be submitted at least seven
days prior to the proposed activity may be waived, but all other requirements
set forth in division (A) above shall be observed.
   (C)   Applications for registration shall be considered on their merits,
with due consideration for the rights of residents to peaceful enjoyment of
privacy; to avoidance of environmental pollution (visual, olfactory and
auditory); to frequency and prevalence of similar activity; and to the
character and reliability of applicants. Where it appears that the proposed
activity would be inconsistent with the policy stated in §
114.02, or otherwise patently detrimental to the public interest, registration
shall be denied. Otherwise, registration shall be granted, subject to the terms
of this chapter.
   (D)   Registration shall be evidenced by a certificate to applicants within
the purview of division (B) above, and by issuance of a license to all others.
Certificates and licenses shall state the particulars in each case. Licenses
shall also stipulate the names of all persons who it is proposed will operate
thereunder. Sufficient copies of any such license shall be furnished to each
licensee to provide each of their agents and employees, so engaged, with a copy
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 1004-87, passed 7-22-1987) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No peddling or hawking shall take place before 9:00 a.m. or after zone
time of sunset on any day.
   (B)   No solicitation other than for religious, charitable, benevolent,
philanthropic, patriotic, political or eleemosynary purposes shall take place
after zone time of sunset on any day, nor solicitation of any kind after 9:00
p.m. on any day.
   (C)   Merchandise distributed gratuitously must be contained in perforated
plastic bags. Other gratuitous distributions, such as that of printed matter,
must be fastened or deposited in such a way as to prevent their being carried
away by the elements and creating litter in the vicinity of distribution,
unless items are handed to and received by individuals personally.
   (D)   Gratuitous distributions of all kinds, including political flyers,
handbills, newsletters and the like, must clearly show the name and address of
their originator.
   (E)   The intent of any sign affixed to a household or apartment, clearly
legible near the front entrance thereof, and having the meaning that solicitors
and peddlers are unwelcome, shall be respected, and no solicitation or peddling
shall be attempted upon the residents of the household or apartment where such
a sign is displayed.
   (F)   No person whose activities are such as to presumptively characterize
them as a peddler, hawker or transient vendor or solicitor within the village,
nor any agent or employee of the same, shall fail or refuse to furnish personal
identification on demand of any village official or of any person approached or
accosted in the course of such activities, nor to state to the best of their
knowledge whether or not their principles have complied with the terms of this
chapter.
   (G)   No person licensed under this chapter shall, while engaged in
activities subject thereto, fail to carry upon their person a legible certified
copy of the license authorizing such activities, and shall fail to yield it up
for inspection at the request of a person approached or accosted in the course
of such activities, or on demand of any village official.
   (H)   A license to carry on the pursuits governed by this chapter does not
give license to obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic, nor to harass
residents or other persons within the village. Any such obstruction or
harassment is a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as elsewhere provided in §
114.99.
   (I)   Complaints of infractions of the provisions of this section shall be
promptly investigated by the village authorities. For occasional and
inadvertent violations, warning may be given in lieu of revocation of license
or charges, but persistent violations even of a minor character shall not merit
indulgence.
   (J)   No person shall obstruct or harass a person duly registered or license
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or their agents or
employees, while in the legitimate pursuit of the activities for which
registration or licensing has been granted. Any such obstruction or harassment
is a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
114.99.
   (K)   The Village Clerk shall cause a permit badge to be issued upon the
approval of each peddler or solicitor application. Such badge shall not be less
than four inches in diameter and shall bear an identifying number. Such badge
shall be prominently displayed upon the person of the peddler or solicitor
during the hours their peddling or soliciting activity is being conducted in
the village.
   (L)   Peddlers dispensing food, beverages or confections shall comply fully
with all applicable ordinances of the village regulating restaurants and food
handlers. All foods, beverages and confections dispensed from a vehicle shall,
unless packaged by the manufacturer at an approved location, be dispensed by a
person from the interior of the vehicle, the cab or driver’s compartment of
which is partitioned from the food, beverage or confection processing or
preparation area.
   (M)   No person shall distribute circulars, dodgers or handbills by placing
one or more of such circulars, dodgers or handbills in automobiles or under the
windshield wipers of automobiles parked on a street or public parking place in
the village.
   (N)   No person shall distribute any gratuitously offered or provided matter
of any kind or description from any motor vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion or while the engine of such vehicle is running.
(Prior Code, § 115.06) (Ord. 1004-87, passed 7-22-1987; Ord. 18-1459, passed 2-
7-2018) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 RECORDS AND NOTICES.
   The Village Clerk shall cause to be maintained an accurate record of
registrations effected and licenses issued for ready referral in case of public
queries or complaints, and shall cause actions in revocation of any license, as
well as charges of violations, to be fully documented. Notice of revocation
shall be served by a police officer on the principal registrant or licensee in
each case, and shall take effect immediately thereupon, except that a two-hour
grace period may be granted to permit such principal to inform their agents or
employees, if any, of such revocation. A copy of such notice shall be published
and posted at the Village Hall, and additional copies thereof shall be
furnished to newspapers of general circulation that are officially recognized
as local public information media.
(Prior Code, § 115.07) (Ord. 1004-87, passed 7-22-1987)
§ 114.07 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person within the scope of this chapter shall operate as a peddler,
hawker, itinerant merchant, vendor or solicitor, or engage in gratuitous
distribution, without first having been duly registered as such, and with the
exceptions noted in §
114.04(B), without having in their possession a copy of a license duly issued
in accordance with the terms of §
114.04.
   (B)   No person registered or licensed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter shall operate beyond the scope of or contrary to the terms stated
in their registration or license, or contrary to the regulations provided in §
114.05.
(Prior Code, § 115.08) (Ord. 1004-87, passed 7-22-1987) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 UNINVITED SOLICITORS.
   (A)   The occupants of any residence in the village shall be permitted to
make the determination as to whether solicitors shall or shall not be invited
to their residence. Every person desiring to secure this protection shall give
notice of their determination to refuse to invite solicitors to their residence
by exhibiting a card, decal or sign not less than three inches by four inches
in size upon or near the main entrance, point of approach or entry to the
residence containing the words “No Solicitors Invited.” For the purpose of
uniformity, cards shall be provided by the Village Police Department to persons
requesting them at the cost thereof. Such card, decal or sign so exhibited
shall constitute sufficient notice to any solicitor that they are prohibited
from trespassing upon the premises.
   (B)   It is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a trespass for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell or create any sound in any
other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and
engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in soliciting to use sales
or other tactics based on force, threat of force, intimidation or psychological
pressure; to knowingly misrepresent themself or their product; or to make or
cause to be made any contract, order form or instrument of indebtedness without
the full knowledge of the customer.
   (D)   Occupants of any residence within the village who desire to prohibit
solicitation of any kind for which registration is required under this chapter
upon their residence premises may further provide the village with their
residence address on a form provided by the village to have the address of such
residence placed within a registry maintained by the village for the purpose of
recording the addresses of residences at which occupants so desire to prohibit
solicitation. The village shall provide a list of the addresses contained
within such registry to any persons registering under this chapter, and shall
also maintain this list on the village’s website. The provision of a
residential address to the village for such purpose shall have the same effect
as the placement of the card referenced in division (A) above, and it shall be
declared unlawful and shall constitute a trespass for any person to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
soliciting in defiance of the provision of the address of such residence to the
village for the purposes herein stated. Owners or occupants of a residence
shall be permitted to remove the address of such residence from the registry
and list maintained by the village at any time. The village shall also be
authorized to place a residential address within the registry and list
maintained by the village for the purpose herein stated where the village
reasonably determines that the residence at such address is vacant.
(Prior Code, § 115.09) (Ord. 1004-87, passed 7-22-1987; Ord. 18-1459, passed 2-
7-2018) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may summarily be
revoked by the Village Clerk on a showing of falsification of registry
information, and infraction of the particular terms of the license or of the
terms of this chapter, or in the case of a licensee or their agents or
employees refusing or evading such surveillance as may be necessary to ensure
compliance with such terms. Upon revocation of a license, all fees paid in
connection therewith shall be forfeited.
(Prior Code, § 115.10) (Ord. 1004-87, passed 7-22-1987)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 115.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 115: PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES
Section
   
115.01   Intent of chapter
   
115.02   Personal property sales; permit required
   
115.03   Term of permit
   
115.04   Application
   
115.05   Permit fee
   
115.06   Conditions
   
115.07   Right of access for inspection
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 INTENT OF CHAPTER.
   It is the intent of these regulations to prohibit the infringement of any
businesses in any established residential zoning districts and in doing so to
regulate the term and frequency of personal property sales, such as garage
sales, porch sales, basement sales, yard sales and other similar types of
sales, so as not to disturb or disrupt the residential environment of the area.
It is not the intent of this chapter to seek the control of casual sales by
individuals of a few of their household or personal items.
(Prior Code, § 117.01) (Ord. 499, passed 7-7-1976)
§ 115.02 PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person desirous of holding a personal property sale, such as, but not
limited to, garage sales, basement sales, porch sales or yard sales of used
household, clothing or any personal property items which are owned by the
residents of the premises, shall obtain a permit therefor from the office of
the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 117.02) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 TERM OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any permit issued shall be for a term not exceeding four consecutive
calendar days.
   (B)   Permits shall be restricted to two per calendar year, per residential
dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 117.03) (Ord. 499, passed 7-7-1976) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 APPLICATION.
   Application for a permit shall be made to the office of the Village Clerk
upon the forms furnished by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 117.04) (Ord. 499, passed 7-7-1976)
§ 115.05 PERMIT FEE.
   The Village Board of Trustees shall establish a schedule of fees, charges
and expenses for permits for personal property sales. The schedule of fees
shall be posted in the office of the Village Clerk and may be altered or
amended from time to time by the Mayor and Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 117.05) (Ord. 2683-99, passed 8-18-1999)
§ 115.06 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The permit will be valid only on proper showing and finding by the
village that proper safety and environmental precautions have been taken for
the protection of the general public.
   (B)   The permit issued in accordance with this chapter shall be posted on
the premises in a conspicuous place so as to be readily seen by the public and
Village Inspectors.
(Prior Code, § 117.06) (Ord. 499, passed 7-7-1976) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 RIGHT OF ACCESS FOR INSPECTION.
   Any police officer of the village, the Village Building Inspector or any
other designated official by any village ordinance to make inspections under
the licensing chapter or with the authority to enforce the same shall have the
right of entry to any premises showing evidence of a personal property sale for
the purpose of enforcement or inspection and may close sale operations on
determining that a violation of this chapter exists and may arrest any person
who violates any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 117.07) (Ord. 499, passed 7-7-1976) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 117.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 116: CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE
Section
Cable/Video Service Provider Fee and PEG Access Support Fee
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Cable/video service provider fee imposed
   
116.03   PEG access support fee imposed
   
116.04   Applicable principles
   
116.05   No impact on other taxes due from holder
   
116.06   Audits of cable/video service provider
   
116.07   Late fees/payments
Cable and Video Customer Protection Law
   
116.20   Customer Service and Privacy Protection Law
   
116.21   Enforcement
   
116.22   Penalties
   
116.23   Customer credits
**** CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE ****
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE SERVICE. The term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   COMMISSION. The State Commerce Commission.
   GROSS REVENUES. All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder’s cable service or video service area within
the village.
      (1)   GROSS REVENUES shall include the following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable or video service;
         (b)   Event-based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment;
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation and
repair charges;
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges;
         (f)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments;
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement;
         (h)   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder’s network,
such as a “home shopping” or similar channel, subject to division (1)(i) below;
         (i)   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities or applications,
the portion of the holder’s revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business; and
         (j)   The service provider fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b).
      (2)   GROSS REVENUES do not include any of the following:
         (a)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to 220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi);
         (b)   Refunds, discounts or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of GROSS REVENUES received by the holder of the state-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
         (c)   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services or the provision of directory or Internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to non-
cable service or non-video service in accordance with the holder’s books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards or orders;
         (d)   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser’s subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies, in writing, that
it will resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220
ILCS 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service;
         (e)   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state-issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes;
         (f)   Security deposits collected from subscribers; and
         (g)   Amounts paid by subscribers to “home shopping” or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
      (3)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of GROSS REVENUES to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise be
paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Commission, pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-
401.
   PEG. Public, education and governmental.
   PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE. The amount paid under this chapter and 220 ILCS 5/
21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service areas within its
territorial jurisdiction.
   SERVICE. The provision of cable service or video service to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the Commission
pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this chapter and 220 ILCS 5/21-
801 by the holder to a village for the service areas within its territorial
jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE. Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including Internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d) or any video
programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables users to
access content, information, electronic mail or other services offered over the
public Internet.
(Prior Code, § 122A.01) (Ord. 07-0606, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 116.02 CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Fee imposed. A fee is imposed on any holder providing cable service or
video service in the village.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed shall be 5% of the
holder’s gross revenues.
   (C)   Notice to the village. The holder shall notify the village at least
ten days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the village.
   (D)   Holder’s liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder’s liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt of the
ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder’s application notice sent pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6) to the
village.
   (E)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (F)   Exemption. The fee imposed does not apply to existing cable service or
video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement with the
village in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) with credit
for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of such
credit from the fees that operator owes under division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 122A.02) (Ord. 07-0606, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 116.03 PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   PEG fee imposed. A PEG access support fee is imposed on any holder
providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to the fee
imposed pursuant to §
116.02.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed shall
be 1% of the holder’s gross revenues or, if greater, the percentage of gross
revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the village or its designee for
PEG access support in the village.
   (C)   Payment. The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the
village or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The
holder’s liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date
set forth in §
116.02(D).
   (D)   Payment due. The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (E)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) shall pay, at
the time they would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG access that
would have been due during the remaining term of the agreement had it not been
terminated pursuant to that section. All payments made by an incumbent cable
operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited against the fees
that that operator owes under division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 122A.03) (Ord. 07-0606, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 116.04 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Prior Code, § 122A.04) (Ord. 07-0606, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 116.05 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state-issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village’s
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state-issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government’s 9-1-1 or E9-1-1 fees, taxes or charges.
(Prior Code, § 122A.05) (Ord. 07-0606, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 116.06 AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.
   (A)   Audit requirement. The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder’s books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et
seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that
the amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the village’s submission of an invoice for the sum.
(Prior Code, § 122A.06) (Ord. 07-0606, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 116.07 LATE FEES/PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this village, pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of
Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 122A.07) (Ord. 07-0606, passed 11-7-2007)
**** CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW ****
§ 116.20 CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW.
   (A)   Adoption. The regulations of 220 ILCS 5/22-501 are adopted by
reference and made applicable to the cable or video providers offering services
within the village’s boundaries.
   (B)   Amendments. Any amendment to the Cable and Video Customer Protection
Law, 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq., that becomes effective after the effective date
of this chapter shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall
be applicable to cable or video providers offering services within the
municipality’s boundaries. However, any amendment that makes its provisions
optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this
chapter by reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 122B.01) (Ord. 07-0608, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 116.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   The village does, pursuant to law, declare its intent to enforce all of the
customer service and privacy protection standards of the Cable and Video
Protection Law, 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq., with respect to complaints received
from residents within the village.
(Prior Code, § 122B.02) (Ord. 07-0608, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 116.22 PENALTIES.
   The village, pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(1), does provide for a
schedule of penalties for any material breach of the Cable and Video Protection
Law by cable or video providers in addition to the penalties provided in the
law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a competitively neutral basis and
shall not exceed $750 for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed
$25,000 for each occurrence of a material breach per customer.
   (A)   MATERIAL BREACH means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   (B)   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least 30
days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material breach.
   (C)   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 122B.03) (Ord. 07-0608, passed 11-7-2007)
§ 116.23 CUSTOMER CREDITS.
   The village adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations. Those
credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 ILCS 5/22-501(s) and
applied on the statement issued to the customer for the next billing cycle
following the violation or following the discovery of the violation. The cable
or video provider is responsible for providing the credits and the customer is
under no obligation to request the credit.
(Prior Code, § 122B.04) (Ord. 07-0608, passed 11-7-2007)
CHAPTER 117: CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS
Section
   
117.01   Definition
   
117.02   Permit required
   
117.03   Fees
   
117.04   Liability insurance
   
117.05   Workers’ compensation insurance
   
117.06   Permit and licensing bond
   
117.07   Application for permit
   
117.08   Revocation; appeal
   
117.09   State license requirements
 
   
117.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building permits, see §§
150.10 through
150.14,
150.25,
150.26 and
157.206
§ 117.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR and/or SUBCONTRACTOR.
      (1)   (a)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association
directly responsible by contract, whether written or oral, for the
construction, alteration, addition, repair, removal of or demolition of any
building or structure;
         (b)   Any installation of equipment for the operation of any building
or structure; or
         (c)   Any excavation or grading of property, any part of which is
located within the corporate limits of the village.
      (2)   (a)   Included under this definition, but not by way of limitation,
are plumbing, heating, refrigeration; and electrical contractors and
subcontractors engaged in the business of installing, altering, repairing or
servicing plumbing, heating, air conditioning or refrigeration systems; and
         (b)   Any contractors or subcontractors engaged in the business of
installing electrical wiring, pipe and conduit containing electrical wiring and
installing and connecting any apparatus that is connected electrically to an
electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 124.01) (Ord. 898, passed 9-19-1984; Ord. 2252-94, passed 1-5-
1994)
§ 117.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation or association shall engage
in the business of contracting or subcontracting within the corporate limits of
the village without having first registered and obtained a license and/or
permit from the Department of Community Services and Development, Inspectional
Services Division.
   (B)   General contractors, contractors and subcontractors obtaining a
license and/or permits from the village shall submit a list of person(s), firm
(s), partnership(s), corporation(s) or association(s) engaging in any
activities on the property during the duration of the license and/or permit.
(Prior Code, § 124.02) (Ord. 898, passed 9-19-1984; Ord. 2252-94, passed 1-5-
1994) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for registration for contractors that are subject to this
chapter shall be $150 for one year.
   (B)   The fee for registration for subcontractors that are subject to this
chapter shall be $75 for one year.
(Prior Code, § 124.03) (Ord. 898, passed 9-19-1984; Ord. 1039-88, passed 7-20-
1988; Ord. 2252-94, passed 1-5-1994; Ord. 05-0272, passed 4-20-2005) Penalty,
see §
117.99
§ 117.04 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   (1)   All contractors and/or subcontractors receiving a permit as
provided in this chapter are required to have a liability insurance policy
providing coverage in the following amounts:
 
Liability - Bodily Injury    Liability - Property Damage
$100,000 per single instance $25,000 minimum
$300,000 for each occurrence
 
      (2)   Evidence of the insurance shall be filed with the application to
the Department of Community Services and Development, Inspectional Services
Division, in the form of a certificate of insurance naming the village as an
additional insured under the policy. Each certificate shall have an endorsement
to the effect that insurance may not be canceled by the insurer thereof without
at least 30 days prior written notice to the village.
   (B)   Cancellation of the insurance provided for herein shall cause
automatic revocation of the contractor’s or subcontractor’s permits.
(Prior Code, § 124.04) (Ord. 898, passed 9-19-1984; Ord. 2252-94, passed 1-5-
1994) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION INSURANCE.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   All contractors and/or subcontractors receiving a permit
as provided for in this chapter are required to have workers compensation
insurance policy according to 820 ILCS 305 in its entirety.
         (b)   Coverage shall be in the following minimal amounts:
 
Workers’ Compensation
$500,000   For each accident
$500,000   For each employee
$1,000,000 Policy limit
 
      (2)   Evidence of the insurance shall be filed with the application to
the Department of Community Services and Development, Inspectional Services
Division, in the form of a certificate of insurance naming the village as an
additional insured under the policy. Each certificate shall have an endorsement
to the effect that insurance may not be canceled by the insurer thereof without
at least 30 days prior written notice to the village.
   (B)   Cancellation of the insurance provided for herein shall cause
automatic revocation of the contractor’s and/or subcontractor’s permits.
(Prior Code, § 124.05) (Ord. 2252-94, passed 1-5-1994) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.06 PERMIT AND LICENSING BOND.
   This bond ensures that a contractor or subcontractor shall complete all
construction according to the village’s building code and allows the individual
to do work within the corporate limits of the village.
   (A)   All contractors shall submit a licensing and permit bond (L&P) in the
amount of $10,000 or 135% of the overall construction costs of the project,
whichever is greater, at the time of permit application.
   (B)   Cancellation of the L&P bond provided for herein shall cause automatic
suspension of the contractor’s and/or subcontractor’s permits.
(Prior Code, § 124.06) (Ord. 2252-94, passed 1-5-1994) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.07 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The computer generated application form shall be prepared by the Department
of Community Services and Development, Inspectional Services Division, and
shall require the name, address and telephone number of the applicant; the
particular type of work contemplated by the applicant, along with the permit
number; date of expiration of the contractor’s or subcontractor’s state
license, if any.
(Prior Code, § 124.07) (Ord. 898, passed 9-19-1984; Ord. 2252-94, passed 1-5-
1994)
§ 117.08 REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event any contractor and/or subcontractor violates any terms or
provisions of this chapter’s rules or regulations or state statutes, the
contractor and/or subcontractor’s permit shall be subject to suspension of the
license.
   (B)   Any contractor and/or subcontractor whose permit has been suspended
shall have ten days within which to appeal the revocation to the Building
Inspector assigned to the project. The appeal period shall commence on the date
set forth in the notice of revocation. In the event the contractor and/or the
subcontractor elects to appeal the decision to the Building Inspector, the
Building Inspector shall notify in writing the appealing party of their
decision within 30 days after the date of hearing.
(Prior Code, § 124.08) (Ord. 898, passed 9-19-1984; Ord. 2252-94, passed 1-5-
1994) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.09 STATE LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All roofs being installed, repaired, altered or replaced by a
contractor or subcontractor must present to the village verification of state
licensing, within the state by those individuals performing the work. A
photocopy will be required for permit issuance.
   (B)   All plumbing being installed, repaired, altered or replaced by a
contractor or subcontractor must present to the village verification of state
licensing, within the state by those individual performing the work. A
photocopy will be required for permit issuance.
(Prior Code, § 124.09) (Ord. 2252-94, passed 1-5-1994)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 124.99) (Ord. 898, passed 9-19-1984; Ord. 2252-94, passed 1-5-
1994; Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 118: LICENSING AND SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Tobacco Control Commissioner; enforcement; hearings; appeals
   
118.03   Application for licenses
   
118.04   License required; general license regulations; number of licenses
   
118.05   Minors
   
118.06   Minimum age to sell
   
118.07   Agents and employees
   
118.08   Certain free distributions prohibited
   
118.09   Delivery of tobacco or electronic smoking devices
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS. All products, as defined under 720 ILCS 675/
1, namely, any product or device not consisting of or containing tobacco that
provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine, whether by chewing,
smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, sniffing or by any other
means. ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT does not include: cigarettes, as defined in
§ 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act, 35 ILCS 130/1, and tobacco products, as defined
in § 10-5 of the Tobacco Products Tax Act of 1995, 35 ILCS 143/10-5; tobacco
product and electronic cigarette, as defined in this section; or any product
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product or for other medical
purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE.
      (1)   Means and includes:
         (a)   Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism to heat a
solution or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
         (b)   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended
to be used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
         (c)   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine,
intended for use in the device. ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE also includes, but is not
limited to, any electronic nicotine delivery system, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, electronic hookah, vape pen or similar
product or device, and any components or parts that can be used to build the
product or device.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE does not include: cigarettes as defined in § 1
of the Cigarette Tax Act, 35 ILCS 130/1, and tobacco products as defined in §
10-5 of the Tobacco Products Tax Act of 1995, 35 ILCS 143/10-5; tobacco product
and alternative nicotine product as defined in this section; any product
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product or for other medical
purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; any
asthma inhaler prescribed by a physician for that condition and is being
marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; or any therapeutic product
approved for use under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
   MULTI-PRODUCTS RETAILER. Any retail establishment that sells tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products and electronic cigarettes, and derives
80% or more of its gross revenue from the sale to the consumer or intended user
of such products, but does not derive 80% or more of its gross revenue from
either the sale of tobacco products, the sale of alternative nicotine products
or the sale of electronic cigarettes, as the same are considered singly, shall
be a MULTI-PRODUCTS RETAILER.
   RETAIL ALTERNATIVE/ELECTRONIC STORE. A retail establishment that derives
more than 80% of its gross revenue from the sales of alternative nicotine
products and/or electronic cigarettes to the consumer or intended user and
which devotes 80% or more of its retail sales area open to the general public
to the retail sale or alternative nicotine products and/or electronic
cigarettes, and in which the sale of any other products is merely incidental. A
RETAIL ALTERNATIVE/ELECTRONIC STORE does not include any department or section
of a larger commercial establishment or any establishment maintaining a
business license for a business other than a retail alternative/electronic
store, or which maintains any liquor license issued by the village. RETAIL
ALTERNATIVE/ ELECTRONIC STORE excludes any establishment engaged solely in
manufacturing, processing or wholesaling operations.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail establishment that derives more than 80% of
its gross revenue from the sale to the consumer or intended user of tobacco
products as herein defined and/or pipes, and other smoking devices for burning
tobacco or other devices for otherwise consuming any form of tobacco and
related smoking accessories, and which devotes 80% or more of its retail sales
area open to the general public to the retail sale thereof, and in which the
sale of other products is merely incidental. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE does not
include a tobacco department or section of a larger commercial establishment or
any establishment maintaining a business license for a business other than a
retail tobacco store business, or which maintains any liquor license issued by
the village. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE excludes any establishment engaged solely in
manufacturing, processing or wholesaling operations.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance containing nicotine, smoking herbs or
tobacco leaf, or any other form of tobacco, including, but not limited to,
cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping tobacco,
together with any pipe or other device intended, held out or marketed for the
purpose of smoking, burning or otherwise consuming any substance containing
nicotine, smoking herbs, tobacco leaf or any other form of tobacco to the
exclusion of alternative nicotine products and electronic cigarettes as
hereinabove defined.
(Prior Code, § 129A.01) (Ord. 22-1766, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 118.02 TOBACCO CONTROL COMMISSIONER; ENFORCEMENT; HEARINGS; APPEALS.
   (A)   Tobacco Commissioner. The Village President, as the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, is authorized to serve as the Local Tobacco Control
Commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of this chapter. Any
reference in this chapter to the Commissioner shall mean the Local Tobacco
Control Commissioner as herein defined.
   (B)   Powers, duties and functions. The Local Tobacco Control Commissioner
shall have the following powers, functions and duties with respect to local
tobacco licenses:
      (1)   After notice and a hearing as herein provided, to suspend or revoke
all local licenses issued under this chapter to persons or entities for
premises within the village’s limits, for not more than 30 days;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter and
examine, at any time, upon the premises licensed hereunder to determine whether
any of the provisions of any laws, ordinances, rules or regulations adopted by
the village or the state, have been or are being violated in the operation of
the licensed premises;
      (3)   To receive complaints about any licensee within the village that
any of the provisions of state law or of this chapter have been or are being
violated, and to act upon such complaint(s) in the manner provided by law;
      (4)   To receive local license fees and pay same to the Finance Director;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined under oath, any applicant or
renewal for a local license, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or
suspension has been served, or cause to be examined, the books and records of
any such applicant or licensee or respondent; to hear testimony and take proof
for their information in the performance of their duties; and to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state. For the purpose
of obtaining any of the information desired by the Tobacco Control Commissioner
under this section, the Commissioner may authorize an agent to exercise the
relevant authority of the Commissioner to obtain the information in question;
and
      (6)   To grant or deny applications for any license required under this
chapter.
   (C)   Suspension, revocation or denial. A license issued under this chapter
may be suspended or revoked pursuant to a notice issued by the Commissioner to
the licensee in any case where the licensee has violated any provision of this
chapter or any other applicable ordinance of the village or law of the state or
the United States, or based on any other violation of village ordinance or
state or federal law reflecting unfavorably upon the ability of the licensee to
conduct the business for which the license in question was issued. Any license
application may likewise be denied by a written notice indicating that the
applicant for a license has not demonstrated compliance with the requirements
for licensure as set forth in this chapter. Any licensee receiving such a
notice may appeal the suspension or revocation contained therein by filing a
written request for an appeal within ten days of the date of the notice, and
any applicant receiving a notice of denial of an application for a license
under this chapter may likewise appeal the denial by filing a written request
for an appeal within ten days of the date of the notice. Such appeals shall be
heard by the village administrative hearing officer not less than ten days nor
more than 45 days from the village’s receipt of the notice of appeal. The
hearing on an appeal shall be conducted under the provisions of Chapter 41, and
the issues in the appeal hearing shall be limited to whether grounds existed
for the suspension or revocation of the license in question, or for the denial
of the license application in question. In the event of a revocation of a
license under this chapter, no license shall be granted to operate any licensed
business from the premises used in connection with the revoked license for a
period of six months from the date of the revocation.
   (D)   Violation. Any violation of this chapter may also be prosecuted by the
village in an ordinance violation proceeding in the 12th Judicial Circuit
Court, or as an administrative adjudication matter pursuant to
Chapter 41.
(Prior Code, § 129A.02) (Ord. 22-1766, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 118.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   (1)   Applications for a license for the retail sale of:
         (a)   Tobacco products;
         (b)   Alternative nicotine products and electronic cigarettes; or
         (c)   Operation as a multi products retailer shall be made with the
Village Clerk’s Office and shall provide such information as required by the
village on said application, as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   A non-refundable fee of $250 shall be due and payable at the time
of original application; no application fee shall be charged for any renewal
application where the applicant is a licensee in good standing at the time of
renewal application, and where the renewal applicant provides the village with
an affidavit confirming that the information provided at the time of original
application remains substantially unchanged, or, in the case of a licensee that
has initially received a license pursuant to §
118.04(D), where the renewal applicant provides the village with all
information required for an initial license application under this chapter and
which information demonstrates that such renewal applicant is eligible for
licensure and in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   At minimum, applications for any license under this chapter shall
require the applicant to present the following information to the village:
         (a)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a partnership, the names, ages and addresses of all
partners; in the case of a corporation or club, the date of incorporation, the
objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses of the officers,
directors, manager and if a majority in interest of the stock of the
corporation is owned by one person or their nominees, the name, age and address
of that person. If the corporation is publicly traded, the application shall
only be required to identify the corporation as well as a manager, and provide
that manager’s contact information;
         (b)   The citizenship of the applicant, their place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of their naturalization;
         (c)   The length of time that the applicant has been in a business of
that character or in the case of a corporation, the date on which it was
incorporated, the state of incorporation and if a foreign corporation, the date
of being qualified to do business in the state;
         (d)   The address of the proposed licensed premises, a detailed
description of the proposed licensed premises, an interior photograph or
diagram of the licensed premises, a site plan of the proposed licensed premises
and accessory, including all private parking lots, driveways and pedestrian
areas controlled by or available to the licensee;
         (e)   A list of governmental entities to which the applicant has
submitted an application for a tobacco license, the date of such application,
the disposition of such application and the dates, reason and length of
suspension or revocation of such license, if any;
         (f)   Each application shall be signed by each applicant, partner, LLC
member, stockholder (except in the case of a publicly traded corporation) or
manager. The information recited in the application form shall be verified by
oath or affirmation as to each person signing the application;
         (g)   Each applicant, partner, LLC member, stockholder (except in the
case of a publicly traded corporation) or manager shall submit to fingerprints
and consent to a background check to be conducted by the Village Police
Department; and
         (h)   A statement that if the application is approved, the applicant
agrees to complete a training program relating to the law requiring
verification of a customer’s age and detection of false identification, which
program shall be approved or conducted by the Village Police Department.
   (B)   The annual fee for a license under this chapter shall be $650 per
license per licensed premises for retail tobacco stores and retail alternative/
electronic stores, and shall be $1,000 per license per licensed premises for
multi products retailers. Notwithstanding any other contrary provision of this
chapter or code, any licensee paying a license fee under this Chapter 118 shall
be exempt only from the payment of the tobacco dealer license fee imposed by §
43.01(C)(2)(h).
   (C)   A license for the retail sale of tobacco products, or the sale of
alternative nicotine products and electronic cigarettes or for operation as a
multi products retailer, is nontransferable and is valid only for the person(s)
or business entity and location specified in the license application.
   (D)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications shall be denied by the Tobacco
Control Commissioner in writing, which writing shall set forth the deficiencies
in the application, and which shall be issued within 60 days of the receipt of
the application. Prior to such a denial, the applicant may submit the
information required to complete the application. Any expenses incurred in
reviewing incomplete or inaccurate license applications, advising the applicant
of such deficiencies and rejecting such applications shall be paid by the
applicant. Discovery of any false or materially misleading matter in an
approved application shall constitute grounds for the suspension or revocation
of a license.
   (E)   Sale, transfer or assignment of 50% or more of the ownership interest
in any licensee (regardless of the form of the licensed entity) or in the
assets thereof shall terminate the relevant license.
   (F)   Licenses terminate each December 31. Any licensee may renew its
license if it is qualified to receive a license; renewals are a privilege and
not a vested right. There shall be no prorations of applicable license fees due
to the village based upon the time of issuance of a license.
   (G)   Original and renewal license applications shall be denied where the
application demonstrates that the applicant does not or cannot comply with the
requirements of this chapter, and shall further be denied to the following
categories of applicants:
      (1)   A person who is indebted to the village and is more than 30 days
delinquent in the payment of the indebtedness at the time of filing the
application;
      (2)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, unless the Tobacco Commissioner determines that such person has been
sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering
matters set forth in such person’s application and the Tobacco Commissioner’s
investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the
applicant;
      (3)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal,
state or village law concerning the possession or sale of tobacco products or
has forfeited a bond to appear in court to answer to any charges for any such
violation;
      (4)   A person who, within one year prior to application for a tobacco
dealer license, has been convicted of, plead guilty to or been placed on
supervision for any tobacco-related offense shall be considered not of good
character and reputation;
      (5)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
      (6)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is issued;
      (7)   A person proposing to operate a licensed business at a location
within 100 feet of any public or private school typically attended by persons
under the age of 18 years. The 100-foot distance shall be measured by a
straight line from nearest point of the licensed premises to nearest lot line
of the school property and shall include public right-of-way;
      (8)   Any applicant or licensee who has been convicted of a felony under
any federal or state law, or any misdemeanor in which tobacco products shall
notify the Tobacco Commissioner of such conviction. Such notification shall be
made within 30 days after the sentencing for the conviction; and
      (9)   Applicants failing to maintain any village, state or federal
license or permit required for the conduct of the licensed business. The
existence of any of the foregoing enumerated matters or circumstances shall
also serve as grounds for the suspension or revocation of any license issued
under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 129A.03) (Ord. 22-1766, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 118.04 LICENSE REQUIRED; GENERAL LICENSE REGULATIONS; NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Categories. There shall be three categories of retail tobacco
licenses.
      (1)   Retail tobacco products license required. It shall be unlawful
without a license issued under this chapter to operate a retail tobacco store
or to sell or offer for sale at retail, to give away, deliver or to keep with
the intention of selling at retail, giving away or delivering any tobacco
products.
      (2)   Alternative nicotine products/electronic cigarettes license
required. It shall be unlawful without a license issued under this chapter to
operate a retail alternative/electronic store or to sell or offer for sale at
retail, to give away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling at
retail, giving away or delivering any alternative nicotine products or
electronic cigarettes.
      (3)   Multi-products retailer license required. It shall be unlawful
without a license issued under this chapter to operate a multi-products
retailer or to sell or offer for sale at retail, to give away, deliver or to
keep with the intention of selling at retail, giving away or delivering any
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or electronic cigarettes.
Nothing herein shall be deemed to exempt a licensee from having to obtain any
other license required under village ordinances or applicable state or federal
law, including, but not limited to, a business license under §§
110.01 through
110.15.
   (B)   General regulations applicable to licensees.
      (1)   Inspections. Establishments defined herein shall be subject to
periodic inspections by authorized village personnel to ensure continual
compliance with the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   No on-premises use or consumption.
         (a)   Except as otherwise permitted by this chapter, or by the
applicable provisions of the Smoke Free Illinois Act, 410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.,
all licensees shall prohibit the use of tobacco products within any premises
licensed under this chapter.
         (b)   Licensees exempt from the preceding sentence include:
            1.   Licensees in lawful operation prior to and continuously since
January 1, 2008; provided that such licensees shall take all actions necessary
to confine smoke, vapors and like emissions to the licensed premises by means
of physical barriers, ventilations systems and other physical means and to
prevent the migration of the same into other enclosed spaces or places where
smoking is prohibited; and
            2.   Licensees licensed and commencing operation after January 1,
2008, but only when located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
licensee, and where smoke, vapors and like emissions are prevented from
migrating into other enclosed spaces or places where smoking is prohibited.
      (3)   Presence of minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful to admit or to
allow to remain on the premises persons under 21 years of age. Signs shall be
clearly posted and visible prior to entry of the establishment and upon entry
that minors are prohibited.
      (4)   Hours of operation. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep
open or operate any business licensed under this chapter in the village between
the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Monday through Friday, inclusive; and
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturdays and Sundays and on
January 1 of each year.
      (5)   Ownership or legal rights. No licensee shall operate any licensed
business or be eligible for licensure without demonstrating that the licensee
owns the licensed premises or holds the legal right to use and occupy the
premises from which the licensed business will operate for the entire license
term.
      (6)   Commitment to the prevention of underage tobacco sales. All license
holders must require all employees and agents of the licensed business to sign
a document certifying that they are aware of the following.
         (a)   It is illegal to sell tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products or electronic cigarettes to persons under the age of 21.
         (b)   Identification must be checked on all persons purchasing tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products or electronic cigarettes.
         (c)   There is a $250 minimum fine for selling tobacco products to
persons under the age of 21.
      (7)   Copies for review. Copies of the executed document for all current
employees of the licensed business must be kept on the premises at all times
and be available for review and inspection by the Commissioner, village staff
and law enforcement officers.
      (8)   Signage. Additionally, all licensees shall display signage on the
licensed premises reading as follows:
THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS OR ELECTRONIC
CIGARETTES TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE YEARS OF AGE AND THE POSSESSION OF THE
SAME BY SUCH PERSONS IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
   (C)   Number of licenses. As of the date on which the village initially
adopts this chapter, the number of licenses available for licensees in any type
or classification of license shall be set equal to the number of such
businesses of any license type or classification then in lawful operation
within the village. Thereafter, the number of licenses in each license category
shall be as set forth from time to time by duly adopted village ordinance.
   (D)   Initial license issuance. Any person or entity that, as of the date of
the adoption of this chapter, is lawfully operating a business required to be
licensed under this chapter shall be issued an initial license made available
for such purpose pursuant to division (C) above, without the payment of an
application fee or a license fee, and without completion of the otherwise
applicable application process. Upon the expiration of the term of any initial
license so issued, the licensee shall thereafter be subject to the otherwise
applicable requirements of the chapter, including, but not limited to, the
provisions pertaining to the payment of license fees, application fees and
license application procedures.
(Prior Code, § 129A.04) (Ord. 22-1766, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 MINORS.
   (A)   Possession. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21
years to possess any tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or
electronic cigarettes.
   (B)   Sales. It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to
sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products or electronic cigarettes to any person under the age of 21
years, and it shall be the responsibility of the person making the sale to
require photographic identification containing the purchaser’s date of birth.
   (C)   Purchase. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21
years to purchase tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or electronic
cigarettes, or to misrepresent their identity or age, or to use false or
altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products or electronic cigarettes.
   (D)   Exception. It shall not be a violation of this section if such use
takes place under the direct supervision of a parent or guardian in the privacy
of the parent’s or guardian’s home or in an established place of worship or
tribal meeting place.
(Prior Code, § 129A.05) (Ord. 22-1766, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.06 MINIMUM AGE TO SELL.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee to engage, employ or permit
any person under 18 years of age to sell tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products or electronic cigarettes in any licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 129A.06) (Ord. 22-1766, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.07 AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such licensee; and such licensee shall be punished in the same manner as if
such act or omission has been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Prior Code, § 129A.07) (Ord. 22-1766, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.08 CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of
selling or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products or electronic cigarettes or any employee or agent
of any such licensee or person, in the course of such licensee’s or person’s
business, to distribute, give away or deliver any tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products or electronic cigarettes free of charge to any person on any
public right-of-way, park, playground or other property owned by the village,
any school district, any park district or any public library.
(Prior Code, § 129A.08) (Ord. 22-1766, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.09 DELIVERY OF TOBACCO OR ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, give away,
deliver or to keep with the intention of selling, giving away or delivering
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or electronic cigarettes unless
the sale shall only occur in a direct, in person, face to face exchange,
including, but not limited to, the use of vending machines for the sale or
delivery of any such products.
(Prior Code, § 129A.09) (Ord. 22-1766, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter by a licensee shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than $250 for the first offense, not less than
$500 for the second offense and not less than $1,000 in addition to a minimum
30-day suspension of the tobacco license for each subsequent offense. Each
day’s continued violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to
be a separate offense.
   (B)   The penalty provision herein provided shall not be construed as a
limitation on the power of the village to suspend or revoke a license in the
manner provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 129A.99) (Ord. 22-1766, passed 3-16-2022)
CHAPTER 119: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Hearing procedures
   
119.03   Age requirements
   
119.04   Identification cards
   
119.05   Licenses not transferable
Establishment Licenses
   
119.20   License required
   
119.21   Application process and standards
   
119.22   Review by Village Manager
   
119.23   License application form and content
   
119.24   Issuance of establishment license
   
119.25   Suspension or revocation of license
   
119.26   Grandfather clause
Certified Massage Therapist/Therapist in Training
   
119.40   Employment of certified therapist required
   
119.41   Certified therapist license required
   
119.42   Applications for therapist licenses
   
119.43   Issuance or denial of license applications
   
119.44   Suspension or revocation of licenses
Facilities
   
119.55   Required facilities
   
119.56   Operation of establishments
   
119.57   Out-call massage services
   
119.58   Inspection of establishments
   
119.59   Exemptions
   
119.60   Public nuisance
 
   
119.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business licensing provisions, see
Chapter 110
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFIED MASSAGE THERAPIST. An individual who has a minimum of 500 hours of
courses and has received a diploma in the field of massage therapy from an
educational institution accredited by a state or any state government agency,
or who has passed the National Certification Examination for Therapeutic
Massage and Bodywork (NCBTMB), administered by the National Certification
Program for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork. In addition, they are an active
member of a nationally recognized massage therapy association, as a certified,
professional or equivalent level, which association offers degrees, continuing
education or certification in massage therapy; provided, however, that an
individual who has received a diploma in the field of massage therapy from an
educational institution accredited by any state or any government agency of a
state need not obtain membership from a nationally recognized massage therapy
association.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, including a certified massage therapist, who renders
any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and receives
compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   LICENSEE. The operator of a massage establishment.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
soft parts of the body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or
electrical apparatus or appliance with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions,
ointments or other similar preparations commonly used in this practice.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a fixed place of business
where any person, firm, association or corporation engages in, permits or
carries on the provision of massages or any of the other activities mentioned
in this chapter.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST IN TRAINING. An individual who is actively enrolled in the
field of massage therapy in an educational institution accredited by a state or
any state government agency, and is working under the direct supervision of a
licensed certified massage therapist.
   OUT-CALL MASSAGE SERVICE. Any business, the function of which is to engage
in or carry on massages at a location designated by the customer or client
rather than a licensed massage establishment.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
limited liability company or partnership, corporation or combination of
individuals of whatever form or character.
   SEXUAL AREA. Genitals, pubic area, anus, buttocks, anal cleft or perineum of
any person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The duly elected or appointed Clerk of the village, or any
Deputy Clerk of the village, duly appointed in accordance with the ordinances
of the village and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 128.01) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 119.02 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   Any hearing required or contemplated hereunder shall be conducted in
accordance with 5 ILCS 100/10-25, 100/10-35 and 100/10-40 of the Illinois
Administrative Procedure Act (5 ILCS 100/). At any hearing, the Village
Attorney may present evidence and argument on behalf of the village, and in the
event thereof, the village official or body conducting the hearing shall retain
separate counsel to advise such official or body in connection with the
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 128.02) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 119.03 AGE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, manager or other person in
charge of any massage establishment to employ any person who is not at least 18
years of age nor shall any license hereunder be issued to any such person.
(Prior Code, § 128.03) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.04 IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   The Village Police Chief shall provide each certified massage therapist or
massage therapist in training granted a license with an identification card
which shall contain a photograph of the certified massage therapist and the
full name and permit number assigned to said certified massage therapist, which
must be worn on the front of the outermost garment at all times during the
hours of operation of any establishment granted a permit pursuant to this
chapter. The identification card shall not be covered in any fashion or hidden.
(Prior Code, § 128.04) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.05 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses issued hereunder are not transferable to any other person or entity
under any circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 128.05) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
**** ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES ****
§ 119.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, carry on or
permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the village, the operating of a massage establishment as herein defined,
without first having obtained a license for a massage establishment from the
Village Clerk’s Office.
(Prior Code, § 128.10) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.21 APPLICATION PROCESS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct a
massage establishment shall file an application in duplicate with the Village
Clerk upon a form provided by the Village Clerk, as the same may be approved or
revised from time to time by the Village Manager, and pay a non-refundable
application fee of $50, plus the actual cost of processing the fingerprints
required by this chapter to the Village Clerk. Upon approval of a license
application, the applicant shall be required to pay an annual license fee of
$100.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall, upon receipt of a massage establishment
license application, refer copies of such application to the Community
Development Department, Fire Department and Police Department. The appropriate
departments shall inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage
establishment, make an investigation of the application and the applicant and
make written recommendations to the Village Clerk concerning the conformity of
the proposed applicant’s massage establishment to the provisions of this
chapter, other applicable village ordinances and federal or state law.
   (C)   Within 30 days of receipt of the recommendation of the aforesaid
departments, the Village Clerk shall notify the applicant in writing by
certified mail, return receipt requested, that the application is granted,
denied or held for further review. The period of such additional review shall
not exceed an additional 30 days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant.
Upon the conclusion of such additional review, the Village Clerk shall advise
the applicant in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, whether
the application is granted or denied.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever an application is denied or held for further review,
the Village Clerk shall, in the writing informing the applicant thereof
required by division (C) above, advise the applicant of the reasons for such
action.
      (2)   An application shall be denied by the Village Clerk if it is found:
         (a)   That the operation of the massage establishment proposed by the
applicant in the massage establishment license application would not conform to
or comply with applicable federal or state laws, with the provisions of this
chapter or with the provisions of other applicable ordinances or regulations of
the village;
         (b)   That the applicant and/or any other person who will be directly
or indirectly engaged in the management and operation of a massage
establishment has been convicted of or entered a plea of guilty or no contest
to:
            1.   Any violation within the past ten years of the laws,
ordinances or regulations of the United States, any state or any local
government entity pertaining to the licensing or operation of any massage
establishment, the licensing or professional conduct of business as a massage
therapist or the provision of massages;
            2.   Any felony offense under the laws of the United States or any
state within the past ten years involving the use of any deadly weapon,
physical force or violence directed toward another person, or the possession or
use of narcotics, drugs or controlled substances;
            3.   Any violation within the past ten years of the laws,
ordinances or regulations of the United States, any state or any local
government entity pertaining to the commission of any act that constitutes or
would constitute a violation of any of the provisions of Article 11 of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/11-0.1 et seq., as amended, or of
the provisions of
Chapter 133, as amended, or of any violation of the aforesaid laws, regulations
and ordinances within the aforesaid time period that constitutes or would
constitute the conspiracy or attempt to violate such laws or a solicitation of
any other person to commit a violation of such laws;
            4.   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter; or
            5.   Any violation within the past five years of the laws,
ordinances or regulations of the United States, any state or any local
government entity pertaining to the commission of any act involving any element
of fraud, false statement, dishonesty, perjury, deceit or other moral
turpitude.
         (c)   That the applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (d)   That in the case of a renewal application, the applicant would
be ineligible for the issuance of an original license;
         (e)   That the applicant has previously had a license issued under the
provisions of this chapter revoked pursuant to the provisions of this chapter;
         (f)   That the applicant has submitted an incomplete application or
refused to provide information required by the application form, and has failed
to correct or cure the same within ten days of the date of a written notice to
the applicant informing the applicant thereof;
         (g)   That the applicant has made any false statement or material
misstatement or omission of fact in connection with the application, or has
provided false or materially misleading information in connection with the
application;
         (h)   That the applicant does not beneficially own or have a leasehold
interest in the premises from which the proposed massage establishment is to be
operated;
         (i)   That the applicant has not been issued a license as a certified
massage therapist under the provisions of this chapter;
         (j)   That the massage establishment is to be conducted by an agent or
manager, if the agent or manager lacks the same qualifications required of the
applicant as a licensee;
         (k)   That if the applicant is a partnership (including any limited or
limited liability partnership), any partner thereof would fail to qualify for
the issuance of a massage establishment license under the provisions of this
chapter;
         (l)   That if the applicant is a corporation, any director, officer or
shareholder holding more than 5% of the shares of the applicant then
outstanding would fail to qualify for the issuance of a massage establishment
license under the provisions of this chapter; or
         (m)   That if the applicant is a limited liability company, any
manager or member thereof would not qualify for the issuance of a massage
establishment license under the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Every massage establishment license issued pursuant to this section
shall be issued for the balance of the calendar year and shall expire on
December 31 of the same year, unless sooner suspended or revoked. No prorations
of the application or annual license fees set forth in this section shall be
made. Renewal applications shall be applied for and processed on the same basis
as original license applications, but shall be submitted not later than October
15 of the year in which the then-issued license shall expire.
(Prior Code, § 128.11) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 119.22 REVIEW BY VILLAGE MANAGER.
   The denial by the Village Clerk of the issuance of any license under this
chapter shall be reviewable by the Village Manager upon the written request of
the applicant filed with the Village Manager within ten days of the date of
such denial. The Village Manager shall conduct a hearing to review the
application and supporting materials provided to the village, the report of the
Village Clerk or any other village employee or witness. The applicant may
present any evidence relevant to the denial. The decision of the Village
Manager upon such hearing shall be a final appealable order.
(Prior Code, § 128.12) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 119.23 LICENSE APPLICATION FORM AND CONTENT.
   (A)   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall
set forth the exact nature of the massage to be administered, the proposed
place of business and facilities therefor, the proposed number of employees or
independent contractors, hours of operation and other relevant matters to the
operation of business.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, any applicant for a license, including
any partner of a partnership applicant (including any limited partnership or
limited liability partnership), any officer or director of a corporate
applicant and any stockholder holding more than 5% of the stock of a corporate
applicant, any manager or member of a limited liability company applicant and
any manager of any massage establishment proposed to be operated by a manager
shall furnish the following information, all in such form as the Village
Manager shall require or approve from time to time:
      (1)   Name and current, complete residential address, post office box
numbers being unacceptable;
      (2)   If the applicant is not a natural person, a statement of the form
of the ownership or organization of the applicant (i.e., partnership, limited
liability company, corporation);
      (3)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age;
      (4)   All residential addresses for the past three years;
      (5)   Date of birth;
      (6)   Social Security number and a copy of the Social Security card;
      (7)   Driver’s license number and a copy of the driver’s license;
      (8)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the
three years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (9)   The massage establishment, certified massage therapist or similar
business or occupational license history of the applicant, including whether
such person, in previously operating in this or another municipality or state
under license, has had such license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor
and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension
or relocation;
      (10)   All criminal or village ordinance violation convictions, pleas of
guilty or no contest and forfeitures of bond, except minor traffic violations;
      (11)   The fingerprints and two two-inch by two-inch photographs of
applicant showing a front view and a profile view of the applicant;
      (12)   A statement of the physical description of the applicant,
including height, weight, gender, hair color and eye color;
      (13)   If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of its Articles of
Incorporation and/or permission to do business in the state shall be attached;
      (14)   Evidence of an ownership, beneficial ownership or leasehold
interest in the premises proposed for the massage establishment and if the
premises are held in any land trust, a disclosure of the names and residential
addresses of all persons holding any beneficial interest therein; and
      (15)   If the applicant is a limited liability company, a copy of the
Articles of Organization shall be attached.
   (C)   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall
further state the name(s) of the individuals who shall provide massage services
to patrons of the massage establishment, all of whom shall be certified massage
therapists, whether employees or independent contractors. The application shall
be supplemented as additional certified massage therapists are employed or
allowed to work on the premises. Said application shall be accompanied by a
copy of the license issued to any such certified massage therapist.
   (D)   The applicant for a license shall also sign an affirmative statement
in such form as may be prescribed from time to time by the Village Manager
accepting full responsibility for any acts of any employee or independent
contractor who is licensed as a certified massage therapist and who will be
providing massage services at the massage establishment in question. Any
violation of this chapter, other applicable village ordinances, state law or
federal law, by the certified massage therapist on the premises of the massage
establishment shall be grounds to revoke, suspend or fine the massage
establishment license holder, as well as the certified massage therapist. Lack
of knowledge of the activities of the certified massage therapist by the
massage establishment license holder shall not be a defense, with all massage
establishment license holders being deemed to constructively possess such
knowledge.
   (E)   The applicant for a massage establishment license shall also consent
in writing, in such form as may be required or approved from time to time by
the Village Manager, to the conduct of any and all necessary investigations or
inspections of the applicant, the accuracy of the information provided by the
applicant in connection with the application and the premises from which the
massage establishment is proposed to be operated.
(Prior Code, § 128.13) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.24 ISSUANCE OF ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the recommendations of the departments referred to in
this chapter demonstrating compliance of the applicant with the provisions of
this chapter, the Village Clerk shall issue a license to the applicant to
operate and maintain a massage establishment.
   (B)   The license holder may allow an employee to provide massage services
or allow an independent contractor to use or work on the premises as a
certified massage therapist so long as the massage establishment license holder
accepts full responsibility for acts of the employee or certified massage
therapist for any violation of federal, state or local ordinance laws regarding
the activities of the certified massage therapist, and for so long as the
certified massage therapist license issued to such an employee or independent
contractor remains in force and effect. It shall be the obligation of the
license holder to promptly inform the village of any change in the eligibility
to hold a certified massage therapist license of any employee or independent
contractor who is a of law or this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 128.14) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
Cross-reference:
   Licenses not transferable, see §
119.05
§ 119.25 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued for a massage establishment may be suspended by the
Village Manager for a period of time not to exceed ten days after sending
written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the license
holder, which notice will state a cause therefor, which cause shall be any
violation of this chapter (including any violation of this chapter or of the
applicable ordinances of the village by a licensed certified massage therapist
for which the massage establishment license holder is responsible), any
violation of other applicable ordinances of the village or any change in the
circumstances or status of the license holder which would render the license
holder ineligible for the issuance of an original massage establishment
license. The license holder may request a hearing within ten days of receipt of
the notice before the Village Manager. Upon receipt of a request for a hearing,
the Village Manager shall set a date for the hearing within 15 days of their
receipt of the request and shall notify the applicant in writing by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The Village Manager shall conduct the hearing.
The license holder shall be permitted to present any relevant evidence bearing
on the suspension. No suspension contemplated hereunder shall take effect until
the lapse of any period of time in which the massage establishment license
holder may request a hearing, or the completion of any hearing on such notice
of suspension requested by said license holder, as the case may be. The
decision of the Village Manager shall be a final appealable order.
   (B)   The Village Manager may also recommend revocation of the massage
establishment license to the corporate authorities. The Village Manager shall
notify, in writing, by certified mail, return receipt requested, the license
holder of their intent to make a recommendation to the corporate authorities
regarding the revocation of the massage establishment license and state a basis
or charge to the licensee, which basis or charge shall be any violation of this
chapter (including any violation of this chapter or of the applicable
ordinances of the village by a licensed certified massage therapist for which
the massage establishment license holder is responsible hereunder), any
violation of other applicable ordinances of the village or any change in the
circumstances or status of the license holder which would render the license
holder ineligible for the issuance of an original massage establishment
license. Within ten days of receipt of such notice, the licensee may request a
hearing before the Village Manager. Upon receipt of a request for a hearing,
the Village Manager shall set a date for the hearing within 15 days of their
receipt of the request and shall notify the applicant in writing by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The Village Manager shall conduct the hearing.
The licensee shall be permitted to present any relevant evidence or argument
bearing on the recommendation for revocation. After the hearing, the Village
Manager shall within ten days thereof submit their recommendation to the
corporate authorities and provide the licensee prior written notice of his
recommendation. The President and Board of Trustees shall review the record and
recommendation and make a decision as to the revocation of the license not
later than 15 days after their receipt of the Village Manager’s recommendation
and record in support thereof. The decision of the President and Board of
Trustees shall be a final appealable order.
   (C)   Any violation of this section by any employee or independent
contractors of the licensee including employees or independent contractors who
are certified massage therapists may be cause for suspension or revocation of
the license as provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 128.15) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 119.26 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   As of October 3, 2001, those persons operating a “massage establishment” or
otherwise providing massages, as defined herein, that do not meet the
requirements provided herein may apply for a provisional massage establishment
license and/or a provisional certified massage therapist license; provided that
the applicant has been in business within the village for at lest one year
prior to October 3, 2001. The provisional licenses shall be effective for a
period of one year from October 3, 2001 to provide adequate time to such
persons to meet the requirements of this chapter. The fee for said license
shall be as provided for the original application and issuance of the relevant
license under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 128.16) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
**** CERTIFIED MASSAGE THERAPIST/THERAPIST IN TRAINING ****
§ 119.40 EMPLOYMENT OF CERTIFIED THERAPIST REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in, conduct, operate, carry on or permit to
be engaged in, conducted, operated or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the village, the business of a massage establishment without having at least
one certified massage therapist employed.
(Prior Code, § 128.20) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.41 CERTIFIED THERAPIST LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person, including an applicant for a massage establishment license, who
engages in the practice of massage as herein defined, or is a massage therapist
in training, shall file an application for a certified massage therapist
license, or a massage therapist in training license, with the Village Clerk
upon a form provided by the Village Clerk, and shall pay to the Village Clerk a
non-refundable application fee of $25 together with the actual cost of
processing fingerprints required by this chapter. Upon issuance, the certified
massage therapist licensee or massage therapist in training licensee shall pay
to the Village Clerk an annual license fee of $50. The license and application
fee shall be waived when the certified massage therapist is the primary
applicant for a massage establishment license, has paid the appropriate massage
establishment application fees and has been issued a duly authorized massage
establishment license.
(Prior Code, § 128.21) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 119.42 APPLICATIONS FOR THERAPIST LICENSES.
   The applicant for a certified massage therapist license and massage
therapist in training license shall supply the following information, in such
form as may be required from time to time by the Village Manager:
   (A)   Name and residence address;
   (B)   Date of birth;
   (C)   Social Security number and driver’s license number, if any, together
with copies of the Social Security card and driver’s license;
   (D)   Applicant’s weight, height, color of hair and eyes;
   (E)   Written evidence that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
   (F)   Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the three
years immediately preceding the date of application;
   (G)   The business where the applicant intends to work;
   (H)   A statement whether the applicant has ever been arrested or convicted
on a charge of committing any criminal offense or local ordinance violation
except minor traffic violations, and whether the applicant has ever pleaded
guilty or no contest to any such charge, or had any bond forfeited in
connection with any such charge. If the answer is in the affirmative, a
statement must be made giving the place and the court in which such conviction,
plea or forfeiture was had; the specific charges under which the conviction,
plea or forfeiture was obtained; and the disposition or sentence imposed as a
result;
   (I)   A statement that the applicant is of such good character and
reputation in the community, which character and reputation may be determined
by previous arrest record, association with persons known to lack good moral
character, open and notorious criminal sexual activity, or other acts of moral
turpitude, or other conduct contrary to good morals;
   (J)   The applicant shall submit fingerprints and two two-inch by two-inch
photographs of the applicant, one showing a front view of the applicant and one
showing a side view of the applicant;
   (K)   With respect to certified massage therapist applications, either a
copy of a diploma in massage therapy from an educational institution accredited
by a state or any state government agency, or a certificate from having passed
the National Certification Examination for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork
(NCBTMB), and proof of being an active member of a nationally recognized
massage therapy association, as a certified, professional or equivalent level;
and
   (L)   A massage therapist in training shall submit evidence that they are
actively enrolled in the field of massage therapy in an educational institution
accredited by the state or any agency thereof, or by any other state or agency
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 128.22) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Licenses not transferable, see §
119.05
§ 119.43 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a certified massage therapist or
massage therapist in training license, the Village Clerk shall refer a copy
thereof to the Village Police Department for review and investigation, and the
Village Police Department shall submit its report of such review and
investigation to the Village Clerk within 30 days of the Village Clerk’s
receipt of such application. The applicant shall also sign a written consent in
such form as is approved from time to time by the Village Manager to the
conduct of the investigations and inspections by the Village Police Department
contemplated hereunder. Within 30 days of receipt of an application for a
certified massage therapist or massage therapist in training license, the
Village Clerk shall notify the applicant, in writing, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, that the application is granted, denied or held for further
review. Any notice that an application is denied or held for further review
shall state the reasons therefor. The period of further review shall not exceed
an additional 30 days, unless agreed to by the applicant. Upon conclusion of
such additional review the Village Clerk shall advise the applicant, in
writing, by certified mail, return receipt requested, whether the application
is granted or denied. An application shall be granted if the application,
materials submitted in support thereof and the report of the Village Police
Department thereon demonstrate that the application conforms to the provisions
of this chapter. Every certified massage therapist or massage therapist in
training license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be issued for the
balance of the calendar year and shall expire on December 31 of the same year,
unless sooner suspended or revoked. No proration of fees shall be made. Renewal
applications shall be applied for and processed on the same basis as original
license applications, but shall be submitted not later than October 15 of the
year in which the then-issued license shall expire.
   (B)   An application for a certified massage therapist license or massage
therapist in training license shall be denied if it is found that:
      (1)   The grant of the license sought by the applicant would not conform
to or comply with applicable federal or state laws, with the provisions of this
chapter or with the provisions of other applicable ordinances or regulations of
the village;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted of or entered a plea of guilty or
no contest to:
         (a)   Any violation within the past ten years of the laws, ordinances
or regulations of the United States, any state or any local government entity
pertaining to the licensing of persons engaged in the provision of massages,
the professional conduct of business as a massage therapist or the provision of
massages;
         (b)   Any felony offense under the laws of the United States or any
state within the past ten years involving the use of any deadly weapon,
physical force or violence directed toward another person, or the possession or
use of narcotics, drugs or controlled substances;
         (c)   Any violation within the past ten years of the laws, ordinances
or regulations of the United States, any state or any local government entity
pertaining to the commission of any act that constitutes or would constitute a
violation of any of the provisions of Article 11 of the Illinois Criminal Code
of 1961, 720 ILCS 5/11-0.1 et seq., as amended, or of the provisions of Chapter
133, as amended, or of any violation of the aforesaid laws, regulations and
ordinances within the aforesaid time period that constitutes or would
constitute the conspiracy or attempt to violate such laws or a solicitation of
any other person to commit a violation of such laws;
         (d)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter; and
         (e)   Any violation within the past five years of the laws, ordinances
or regulations of the United States, any state or any local government entity
pertaining to the commission of any act involving any element of fraud, false
statement, dishonesty, perjury, deceit or other moral turpitude.
      (3)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (4)   In the case of a renewal application, the applicant would be
ineligible for the issuance of an original license;
      (5)   The applicant has previously had a license issued under the
provisions of this chapter revoked pursuant to the provisions of this chapter;
      (6)   The applicant has submitted an incomplete application or refused to
provide information required by the application form, and has failed to correct
or cure the same within ten days of the date of a written notice to the
applicant informing the applicant thereof; and
      (7)   The applicant has made any false statement or material misstatement
or omission of fact in connection with the application, or has provided false
or materially misleading information in connection with the application.
(Prior Code, § 128.23) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 119.44 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   A certified massage therapist or massage therapist in training license
issued by the Village Clerk may be revoked or suspended by the Village Manager
where it appears that the licensee has been convicted of, pleaded guilty or no
contest to any offenses which would be cause for denial of a license permit
upon an original application; has made a false statement, material misstatement
of fact or material omission of fact on an application for a license; has had a
change in status or circumstances rendering the licensee ineligible for the
issuance of an original license; or has committed an act in violation of this
chapter, or federal, state law or other applicable village ordinances.
   (B)   The Village Manager, in revoking or suspending a certified massage
therapist license, shall give the license holder a written notice sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, specifying the grounds therefor. Such
person may, within ten days of the receipt of such revocation or suspension,
file a written request with the Village Manager for a hearing before the
Village Manager. The Village Manager shall set a date for such hearing which
shall be within 15 days of their receipt of the request for hearing, and shall
notify the licensee in question of the date thereof by certified mail, return
receipt requested. The licensee shall be permitted to present evidence and
argument relevant to the suspension or revocation. The decision of the Village
Manager, upon such hearing, shall be a final appealable order. No suspension or
revocation shall take effect until after the lapse of any period of time in
which the licensee may request a hearing before the Village Manager on such
suspension or revocation or the completion of any such hearing, as the case may
be.
(Prior Code, § 128.24) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
**** FACILITIES ****
§ 119.55 REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   (A)   No massage establishment shall be issued a license nor be operated,
established or maintained in the village unless an inspection by the health
officer and/or other village inspections reveal that the establishment complies
with each of the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and
showers shall be made waterproof with approved waterproof materials and shall
be installed in accordance with the ordinances of the village. All massage
tables, bathtubs, shower stalls, steam or bath areas and floors shall have
surfaces which my be readily disinfected;
      (2)   Adequate bathing, dressing and locker facilities shall be provided
for the patrons to be served at any given time. In the event male and female
patrons are to be served simultaneously, separate bathing, dressing, locker and
massage room facilities shall be provided;
      (3)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing non-disposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such non-disposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use by or provision of massages to each patron;
      (4)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage area;
      (5)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When
employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the same time,
separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A single water
closet per sex shall be provided for each 20 or more employees or patrons of
that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may be substituted for water
closets after one water closet has been provided. Toilets shall be designated
as to the sex accommodated therein;
      (6)   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running
water shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule. Lavatories
or washbasins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser and with sanitary
towels;
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with a service sink for custodial
services; and
      (8)   A stationary or portable professional massage table with
appropriate headrest.
   (B)   The Community Development Department Director shall certify that the
proposed massage establishment complies with all the requirements of this
section and shall send such certificate on to the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 128.30) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.56 OPERATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted or provided
in brochures in a location available to all prospective customers.
   (C)   All employees, including certified massage therapists, shall be clean
and fully covered in clean clothing from a point not to exceed four inches
above the center of the kneecap to the base of the neck by opaque material,
excluding the arms and hands.
   (D)   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   (E)   The sexual area of patrons must be covered by sheets, cloths or
undergarments when in the presence of an employee or certified massage
therapist or massage therapist in training.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowingly in a massage
establishment, to place their hand upon, to touch with any part of their body,
to fondle in any manner, to massage a sexual area of any other person or to
solicit or request any such act.
   (G)   No certified massage therapist, massage therapist in training, massage
establishment license holder or employee or independent contractor of a massage
establishment license holder shall perform, offer or agree to perform any act,
which would require the touching of a patron’s sexual area.
   (H)   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms and
all other physical facilities shall be in good repair and maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms or steam
or vapor cabinets, shower compartments and toilet rooms shall be thoroughly
cleaned after each day the business is in operation. Bathtubs and showers shall
be thoroughly cleaned after each use. When carpeting is used on the floors, it
shall be kept dry.
   (I)   Oils, creams, lotions or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets and shall be
dispensed in unit doses so that said bulk containers are not contaminated
between patrons.
   (J)   Eating and/or drinking in the massage work areas shall not be
permitted. Animals, except for seeing eye dogs, shall not be permitted in the
massage work areas.
   (K)   No certified massage therapist or massage therapist in training shall
administer a massage to a patron exhibiting any skin fungus, skin infection,
skin inflammation or skin eruption unless a physician duly licensed by the
state certifies in writing that such person may be safely massaged, prescribing
the conditions thereof.
   (L)   Each certified massage therapist shall wash their hands in hot running
water, using a proper soap disinfectant before administering a massage to each
patron.
   (M)   Massage may be practiced only for the purposes of physical fitness,
relaxation or medical therapy. The practice of massage for any other purpose is
prohibited.
   (N)   The hours of operation for massage establishments shall be limited to
between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (O)   The doors to the individual massage rooms shall not be equipped with
any locking device and shall not be blocked or obstructed from either side.
(Prior Code, § 128.31) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.57 OUT-CALL MASSAGE SERVICES.
   A certified massage therapist may provide any of the services listed in this
chapter only at a permanent residence or place of business, except a place of
business which is in the business of providing temporary residence, that is a
hotel, motel or other transient lodgings. No “out-call massage service” may be
operated other than by a licensed certified massage therapist. All massages
performed by an “out-call massage service” must be performed in the manner and
under the conditions prescribed in §
119.56.
(Prior Code, § 128.32) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.58 INSPECTION OF ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The Village Manager or their authorized designee shall from time to time,
and at least twice a year, make an inspection of each massage establishment
granted a license under the provisions of this chapter for the purposes of
determining that the provisions of this chapter are complied with. Such
inspections shall be made at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner. It
shall be unlawful for any licensee to fail to allow access to the premises for
such inspections or to hinder such inspections in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 128.33) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.59 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to other units of government, hospitals,
nursing homes, sanitaria or persons holding an unrevoked certificate or license
to practice any branch of the healing arts under the laws of this state or
persons working under the direction of any such persons or in any such
establishments; nor shall this chapter apply to barbers or cosmetologists
lawfully carrying out their particular profession or business and holding a
valid, unrevoked license or certificate of registration issued by the state;
nor shall this chapter apply to “out-call massage” of fully clothed patrons.
(Prior Code, § 128.34) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
§ 119.60 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The following are declared to be a nuisance and shall be abated in
accordance with the laws of the state and the ordinances of the village:
   (A)   Any building used as a massage establishment in violation of this
chapter with the intentional knowing reckless or negligent permission of the
owner thereof; or
   (B)   The agent of the owner managing the building, together with all
fixtures and other property used in violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 128.35) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Every person, except those who are specifically exempted by this chapter,
whether acting as an individual, operator, owner, employee of the owner or
whether acting as a mere helper for the owner, employee or operator, or acting
as a participant or working in any way, who gives massages or operates a
massage establishment without first obtaining a massage establishment or
certified massage therapist license from the village in accordance with this
chapter, or shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $250 nor more than
$750.
(Prior Code, § 128.99) (Ord. 97-01, passed 10-3-2001)
CHAPTER 120: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Public Swimming Pools and Beaches
   
120.01   License required
   
120.02   Applications
   
120.03   Right to enter and inspect premises
Circuses and Carnivals
   
120.15   Definitions
   
120.16   License required
   
120.17   Application required
   
120.18   Inspections required
   
120.19   Regulations
Clothes Modeling Establishments
   
120.30   Intent of chapter
   
120.31   Definitions
   
120.32   License required
   
120.33   License application
   
120.34   License fee
   
120.35   License issuance
   
120.36   Revocation of license
   
120.37   Prohibited conduct
   
120.38   Knowledge of conduct
 
   
120.99   Penalty
**** PUBLIC SWIMMING POOLS AND BEACHES ****
§ 120.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate, conduct or maintain within the
village for public use, what is commonly known as a swimming pool or beach, or
bath houses or locker rooms in connection therewith, or the rental of bathing
suits to be used therein without first obtaining a license.
(Prior Code, § 119.01) (Ord. 137, passed 7-3-1934) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for licenses shall be made to the President of the Village
Board in writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, and by members of
the partnership, if a partnership, or by a duly authorized agent, if a
corporation, verified by oath or affidavit and containing the following
information and statements:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant or the copartners, if a
copartnership, and the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof, and in
the case of a corporation, the date of incorporation, the objects for which it
was organized or formed and the names and addresses of the officers and
directors;
   (B)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license; and
   (C)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or of the United States or any ordinance of the village in the conduct of
their place of business.
(Prior Code, § 119.02) (Ord. 137, passed 7-3-1934)
§ 120.03 RIGHT TO ENTER AND INSPECT PREMISES.
   The village, or its duly authorized agent, shall have the right, at all
reasonable times, to enter on the premises operating under a license to inspect
it and take samples of the water in the swimming pool or beach in order to make
tests for purposes of sanitation and the safety and health of the patrons.
(Prior Code, § 119.04) (Ord. 137, passed 7-3-1934) Penalty, see §
120.99
**** CIRCUSES AND CARNIVALS ****
§ 120.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNIVAL. An entertainment or place of amusement with rides, games of skill,
side shows, refreshments or any combination of the above.
   CIRCUS. An entertainment or place of amusement with side shows, rides, games
of skill, refreshments or any combination of the above, usually including an
arena enclosed within a tent for the showing of acrobats, wild animals and
clowns.
   SPONSOR. A person, organization, firm or corporation who enters into a
contractual agreement with a circus or carnival company or is otherwise
recognized as the monetary benefactor of such an activity.
(Prior Code, § 125.01) (Ord. 1033-88, passed 5-18-1988)
§ 120.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct or operate a circus or
carnival in the village without first having secured a license therefor.
   (B)   Circus and carnival licenses shall be granted by the Board of
Trustees, signed by the Village President and issued by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 125.02) (Ord. 1033-88, passed 5-18-1988) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.17 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Applications for circus and carnival licenses shall be made upon such
forms as prescribed by the village.
   (B)   (1)   All applications shall be accompanied by a certificate of
insurance evidencing coverage in an amount not less than $1,000,000 for general
liability insurance.
      (2)   Such coverage shall be with an insurance carrier acceptable to the
village and shall include the following:
         (a)   Occurrence form policy;
         (b)   Premises/operations;
         (c)   Products/completed operations;
         (d)   Personal injury, with employment exclusion; and
         (e)   Contractual liability.
      (3)   Such policy shall also name the village, its officials, officers
and employees as additional insured.
   (C)   All applications shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance in
an amount not less than $1,000,000 for dram shop liability insurance. Such
insurance shall be with a carrier acceptable to the village and shall include
the village as a named insured.
   (D)   A license shall not be issued by the village until a certificate of
insurance, identifying the village as a named insured, covering personal
injury, accidents, death and property damage resulting from any activity
associated with the operation of the circus or carnival, is provided to the
village.
(Prior Code, § 125.03) (Ord. 1033-88, passed 5-18-1988)
§ 120.18 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The sponsor of the circus or carnival must show proof of inspection
and approval of all good concession areas by the County Health Department.
   (B)   The sponsor of the circus or carnival must show proof of inspection
and approval of all carnival rides. Electrical systems, public seating, stages
and scaffolding shall be inspected by the Village Fire and Inspectional
Services Departments.
   (C)   The sponsor of the circus or carnival must have all games inspected by
the Village Police Department to assure that no game or part of a game involves
gambling.
(Prior Code, § 125.04) (Ord. 1033-88, passed 5-18-1988) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.19 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations must be followed by the sponsor of the circus or
carnival.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the sponsor to assure that
areas used for any circus or carnival shall be cleaned of debris and litter
daily, and returned to their normal condition upon the conclusion of that
activity.
      (2)   To ensure cleanup on a daily basis, the applicant shall deposit
$200 with the Village Clerk as a security deposit prior to the issuance of a
permit. This deposit will be returned to the applicant if the premises are left
in a clean condition at the conclusion of the event. Otherwise, the deposit
will be retained by the village for cleanup purposes.
      (3)   Additionally, trash containers in adequate number shall be placed
in convenient locations for use by the public, and dumpsters must be present at
the site.
   (B)   When a beer garden is included as part of a circus or carnival, the
sponsor must surround the entire beer garden with a double barrier (that is, a
snow fence or the like), with a minimum of six feet between each barrier.
   (C)   (1)   Two full-time police officers of the village, when available,
are required, at the sponsor’s expense, for the entrance to a beer garden to
check identification. No one under the age of 21 is to be allowed in a beer
garden.
      (2)   It is further required that security be cleared by the Village
Police Department prior to the issuance of a license, and, if required by the
Village Police Department, police officers be provided at sponsor’s expense for
security purposes in the circus or carnival midway areas.
   (D)   All noise generated over speakers, whether created by live voice or
recording, must be placed in such a way to provide the least impact on
neighboring residences.
   (E)   No person shall gamble, bet or permit any form of gambling or betting
in or on any premises used for a circus or carnival.
   (F)   The sponsor of the circus or carnival must provide proof to the Animal
Control Officer that proper provisions are made for the treatment of animals
and the removal of animal waste.
   (G)   The sponsor of a circus or carnival must provide sanitary toilets, in
a quantity acceptable to the County Health Department, according to the number
of people attending.
   (H)   The sponsor must make a request to the Fire Department for any water
usage from fire hydrants.
   (I)   All on-street parking must be cleared by the sponsor with the Police
Department.
   (J)   All carnival rides must be closed one half-hour before village curfew
times. No circus or carnival shall be operated between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 6:00 a.m.
   (K)   All circus and carnival events must be registered with the state.
   (L)   The Village Board, by majority vote, may waive any division of this
section on a case-by-case basis through September 5, 1988. This division shall
be in effect from the date of adoption through September 5, 1988.
(Prior Code, § 125.05) (Ord. 1033-88, passed 5-18-1988) Penalty, see §
120.99
**** CLOTHES MODELING ESTABLISHMENTS ****
§ 120.30 INTENT OF CHAPTER.
   It is the intent of this chapter to provide for an effective means to
monitor and regulate clothes modeling establishments and to prevent the use of
such establishments as a pretext for lewd or indecent behavior by employees or
independent contractors of such establishments, or by members of the general
public who purchase the service of such establishments.
(Prior Code, § 110A.01)
§ 120.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOTHES MODELING ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment wherein, as a regular part
of its business, persons are employed to model clothes for the general public.
The GENERAL PUBLIC means any number of persons, including one, who are
physically present at the establishment for any purpose. CLOTHES include any
article or item of clothing, outer-garment, under-garment, sleepwear or any
item designed or fashioned to be worn on a human being. For purposes of this
chapter, jewelry shall be considered an item of clothing.
   NUDITY. The exposure of any of the following parts of the human body to any
person: genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, anus, anal cleft or female breast below
the top of the areola or the employment of any device or covering which is
intended to give the appearance of or simulate genitals, pubic hair, buttocks,
anus, anal cleft or female breast below the top of the areola.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Any conduct by a person intended to induce any person or
engage in any act of sexual contact, including sexual intercourse, oral or anal
intercourse or masturbation.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. The touching of female breasts, genitalia, anus or anal
cleavage, by any person, for the purpose of sexually arousing any person,
whether male or female, whether the person touching or the person touched.
SEXUAL CONTACT shall include any act of auto eroticism such as masturbation.
(Prior Code, § 110A.02) (Ord. 2042-89, passed 12-20-1989)
§ 120.32 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, including any corporation, joint venture or
partnership, to own or engage in the business of operating a clothes modeling
establishment without having first obtained a license therefor. A new license
must be obtained for each new calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 110A.03) (Ord. 2042-89, passed 12-20-1989) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.33 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for such license shall be made to the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name of the person, joint venture, partnership or corporation
making the application;
      (2)   The name of the owner of the property on which the business will be
operated, and the name, business and telephone number of the person, including
the corporate officer, responsible for operation of the business;
      (3)   The address where the business will be operated, including the
location of the clothes modeling establishment;
      (4)   A statement as to whether the application is for an existing
business or a new business; and
      (5)   A specification of what kinds of clothes will be modeled at the
facility and the number of employees anticipated to be working there.
(Prior Code, § 110A.04) (Ord. 2042-89, passed 12-20-1989)
§ 120.34 LICENSE FEE.
   The applicant shall pay an annual fee of $5,000 upon the submission of an
application for any license under this chapter. License applications and fees
are due on January 1 of each calendar year. Applicants may apply for a license
at any time during the year, but shall be liable for the entire fee required,
regardless of when in the year such application is made.
(Prior Code, § 110A.05) (Ord. 2042-89, passed 12-20-1989; Ord. 10-0847, passed
4-7-2010)
§ 120.35 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of the application fee and the application, the Village Clerk
shall issue the license to the applicant if the business is already in
operation as of the effective date of passage of this chapter, or if the
applicant has already obtained a license for a clothes modeling establishment
for the prior year. When the application is not for renewal, but for a new
license, and the business was not in operation before the effective date of
this chapter, the Village Clerk shall refer the application to the Village
President, who shall make inquiry into whether the applicant or the manager of
the establishment, or any employees of the establishment, have ever been
convicted of a felony or theft under the laws of the state or other
jurisdiction. If no such convictions are disclosed in the Village President’s
investigation, they shall issue the license within one month after it was
submitted to the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 110A.06) (Ord. 2042-89, passed 12-20-1989)
§ 120.36 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All persons operating or owning a clothes modeling establishment
within the village will comply with all federal, state and local laws, which,
in any manner, relate to the operation or ownership of the establishment. In
particular, licensee and its agents or employees shall not violate any of the
provisions prohibiting nudity, sexual contact or sexual conduct as set out in
this chapter.
   (B)   When any village officer or employee becomes aware that a clothes
modeling establishment has violated any village ordinance or other local, state
or federal law, they shall forthwith inform the Village President of the
violation. At their discretion, the Village President may call a hearing to
determine whether the license of the establishment shall be suspended or
revoked. If the Village President decides to call such a hearing, they will act
as hearing officer. The person named as owner or manager of the establishment
on the license application form shall be notified by certified mail, the date
the hearing is set for and the nature of the charges lodged against the
establishment, its agents or employees. In no event shall the hearing date be
less than seven days after service of said notice upon the owner or manager of
the establishment. At the hearing, the village and the owner or manager may
present evidence relating to and relevant to the question as to whether a
violation has occurred. All evidence shall be presented in accordance with the
rules of evidence as set out by the Illinois Administrative Review Law, 735
ILCS 5/3-101 et seq. If the village proves by a preponderance of the evidence
that the charged violation or violations took place, the Village President
shall determine whether the license should be suspended or revoked.
   (C)   If the Village President revokes a license, the licensee may file a
written appeal with the Village Planning Commission. The appeal shall be filed
with the Village Clerk within 30 days after the Village President sends notice
of their decision of revocation or suspension to the owner or manager of the
establishment. The Village Clerk shall forward the appeal to the Village
Planning Commission. The licensee may appear before the Commission to present
their reasons why their license should not be revoked or suspended. Upon
hearing all the evidence, the Commission shall forward to the Village Board its
findings, recommending approval or disapproval of the revocation or suspension,
as the case may be. If the Village Board, by majority vote, approves the
revocation, the license shall remain revoked as of the date of the Village
President’s action. If the Village Board disapproves the revocation, the
license shall be reinstated as of the date of the Village Board’s action. The
Village Board shall act within 45 days of the Planning Commission’s
recommendation as to whether or not to approve the revocation or suspension.
(Prior Code, § 110A.07) (Ord. 2042-89, passed 12-20-1989)
§ 120.37 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No employee, agent or independent contractor of a clothes modeling
establishment shall appear nude before any person within a clothes modeling
establishment. No employee, agent or independent contractor of a clothes
modeling establishment shall participate in any sexual contact, wherein they
come in contact with any other person or any other person comes in contact with
them. No employee, agent or independent contractor of a clothes modeling
establishment shall engage in sexual conduct of any type with or in the
presence of any other person, nor shall said employee, agent or independent
contractor by any means stimulate or induce any other person to engage in
sexual conduct or sexual contact within the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 110A.08) (Ord. 2042-89, passed 12-20-1989) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.38 KNOWLEDGE OF CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or manager of such an establishment to
knowingly allow any nudity, sexual contact or sexual conduct to occur within
the establishment.
(Prior Code, § 110A.09) (Ord. 2042-89, passed 12-20-1989) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
§§
120.01 through
120.03, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 119.99)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
§§
120.15 through
120.19, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 125.99)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
§§
120.30 through
120.38, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 110A.99)
(Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 121: RESTAURANTS, VENDING MACHINES AND FOOD OPERATIONS
Section
Home Kitchen and Cottage Food Operations
   
121.01   Adoption of Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act
Vending Machines
   
121.15   License required
   
121.16   Application for license
   
121.17   License fees
   
121.18   Payment of license fee
   
121.19   License tag; issuance, contents, display
   
121.20   Enforcement
Restaurant Administrative Provisions
   
121.35   Definitions
   
121.36   License required
   
121.37   Applications
   
121.38   Revocation
   
121.39   Inspection of restaurants
Restaurant Regulations
   
121.50   Food and drink
   
121.51   Water supply
   
121.52   Refrigeration
   
121.53   Storage, display and serving of food and drink
   
121.54   Examination and condemnation of unwholesome or adulterated food or
drink
   
121.55   Disposal of wastes
   
121.56   Employees
   
121.57   Premises
   
121.58   Lavatory facilities
   
121.59   Toilet facilities
   
121.60   Storage and handling of utensils and equipment
   
121.61   Construction of utensils and equipment
   
121.62   Cleaning and bactericidal treatment of utensils and equipment
 
   
121.99   Penalty
**** HOME KITCHEN AND COTTAGE FOOD OPERATIONS ****
§ 121.01 ADOPTION OF FOOD HANDLING REGULATION ENFORCEMENT ACT.
   (A)   The village adopts and incorporates the provisions of the Food
Handling Regulation Enforcement Act (410 ILCS 625/1 et seq.), as amended.
   (B)   Home kitchen operations and cottage food operations, as defined by the
Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, as amended, are permitted within the
village. The sale of non-potentially hazardous food by home kitchen operations
and by cottage food operations is also permitted in accordance with the Food
Handling Regulation Enforcement Act.
   (C)   The village authorizes the direct sale of baked goods as described in
§ 4 of the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, 410 ILCS 625/4.
   (D)   Violations of this chapter shall be subject to the general penalty
provisions of §
10.99. In addition, the village shall be entitled to pursue appropriate action
in the Circuit Court of the 12th Judicial Circuit of the county to secure
injunctive relief as necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to
prevent violations thereof.
(Prior Code, § 121A.01) (Ord. 18-1500, passed 9-19-2018) Penalty, see §
121.99
**** VENDING MACHINES ****
§ 121.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate, install or maintain within the village any vending
machine, automatic or otherwise or any coin-operated machine dispensing goods
of whatsoever sort without license therefor, nor shall any person allow to be
installed, operated or maintained by one other than a licensee hereunder, any
such machine or premises controlled by them. This section shall not apply to
coin-operated amusement devises.
(Prior Code, § 126.01) (Ord. 2680-99, passed 8-4-1999)
§ 121.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for license under this chapter shall be made in accordance with
the general licensing provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 126.02) (Ord. 2680-99, passed 8-4-1999)
§ 121.17 LICENSE FEES.
   An annual license fee is imposed upon each coin-operated vending machine.
The fee shall be as provided in the schedule of fees.
(Prior Code, § 126.03) (Ord. 2680-99, passed 8-4-1999)
§ 121.18 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The license fees prescribed in this chapter shall be paid in advance
at the time of application, for all machines then listed.
   (B)   Fees are payable by the owner or person in control of the premises on
which the machine is located.
(Prior Code, § 126.04) (Ord. 2680-99, passed 8-4-1999; Ord. 05-0337, passed 11-
2-2005)
§ 121.19 LICENSE TAG; ISSUANCE, CONTENTS, DISPLAY.
   The Village Clerk shall assign to each licensee at the time of original
application, a license number which the licensee shall display, in addition to
their name and address, on each machine. The tag shall bear the words
“Romeoville Village License, Vending/Amusement No.___,” and shall show the year
for which the license fee is paid.
(Prior Code, § 126.05) (Ord. 2680-99, passed 8-4-1999)
§ 121.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced and administered by the Village Manager or
their designee.
(Prior Code, § 126.06) (Ord. 2680-99, passed 8-4-1999)
**** RESTAURANT ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS ****
§ 121.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD. Includes beverages other than alcoholic liquor.
   RESTAURANT. Includes any place where food or drink, other than alcoholic
liquor, is prepared or served to the public for consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 121.01) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969)
§ 121.36 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a restaurant in the village without first
obtaining a license therefor, or without full compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 121.02) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.37 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for licenses shall be made in writing to the Clerk, on a
form to be furbished by them, and shall comply with the general provisions
relating to licenses.
   (B)   All applications for a license to conduct a restaurant shall be
referred to the health officer. They shall make or cause to be made an
investigation of the premises to be used and report their finding thereon,
recommending or advising against the issuance of the license.
(Prior Code, § 121.03) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969)
§ 121.38 REVOCATION.
   Any restaurant license may be revoked by the corporate authorities for
repeated violation of the provisions of this chapter, or for any violation of
any ordinance provisions relating to the conduct of the business, the condition
of the premises, the article sold or the license required.
(Prior Code, § 121.05) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969; Ord. 875, passed 1-18-1984)
§ 121.39 INSPECTION OF RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   At least once every six months, the health officer shall inspect every
restaurant located within the village. In case the health officer discovers the
violation of any item of sanitation, they shall make a second inspection after
the lapse of such time as they deem necessary for the defect to be remedied.
Any violation of the same requirement of this chapter found on the second
inspection shall authorize immediate revocation.
   (B)   One copy of the inspection report shall be posted by the health
officer on an inside wall of the restaurant. The inspection report shall not be
defaced or removed by any person except the health officer. Another copy of the
inspection report shall be filed with the records of the Health Department.
   (C)   The person operating the restaurant shall, on request of the health
officer, permit access to all parts of the establishment and shall permit
copying any or all records of food purchased.
(Prior Code, § 121.06) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
**** RESTAURANT REGULATIONS ****
§ 121.50 FOOD AND DRINK.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall offer for sale, or keep for the
purpose of selling or offering for sale, any food of any kind intended for
human consumption which is spoiled or tainted, or is unwholesome and unfit for
human consumption, for any reason.
   (B)   All food and drink shall be clean, wholesome, free from spoilage and
so prepared as to be safe for human consumption. All milk, fluid milk products,
ice cream and other frozen desserts served shall be from approved sources. Milk
and fluid milk products shall be served in the individual original containers
in which they were received from the distributor or from a bulk container
equipped with an approved dispensing device. However, this requirement shall
not apply to cream, which may be served from the original bottle or from a
dispenser approved for such service. All oysters, clams and mussels shall be
from approved sources, and if shucked shall be kept, until used, in the
containers in which they were placed at the shucking plant.
(Prior Code, § 121.15) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.51 WATER SUPPLY.
   Running water under pressure shall be easily accessible to all rooms in
which food is prepared or utensils are washed. The water supply shall be
adequate, safe and sanitary.
(Prior Code, § 121.16) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.52 REFRIGERATION.
   All readily perishable food and drink shall be kept at or below 50°F except
when being prepared or served. Waste water from refrigeration equipment shall
be properly disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 121.17) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.53 STORAGE, DISPLAY AND SERVING OF FOOD AND DRINK.
   (A)   All food and drink shall be so stored, displayed and served as to be
protected from dust, flies, vermin, depredation and pollution by rodents,
unnecessary handling, droplet infection, over-head leakage and other
contamination.
   (B)   No animals or fowls shall be kept or allowed in any room in which food
or drink is prepared or stored.
   (C)   All means necessary for the elimination of flies, roaches and rodents
shall be used.
(Prior Code, § 121.18) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.54 EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME OR ADULTERATED FOOD OR
DRINK.
   Samples of food, drink and other substances may be taken and examined by the
health officer as often as may be necessary for the detection of
unwholesomeness or adulteration. The health officer may condemn and forbid the
sale of, or cause to be removed or destroyed, any food or drink which is
unwholesome or adulterated.
(Prior Code, § 121.19) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969)
§ 121.55 DISPOSAL OF WASTES.
   All wastes shall be properly disposed of, and all garbage and trash shall be
kept in suitable receptacles, in such manner as not to become a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 121.20) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.56 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All persons engaged in handling or coming in contact with food
intended for sale for human consumption shall keep themselves clean, both as to
person and clothing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier
of any infections or contagious disease to handle or be engaged in the care or
preparation of any food. It shall be unlawful to permit the person to be
employed in or about any premises where food is stored, prepared or sold or to
deliver the food.
(Prior Code, § 121.21) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.58 PREMISES.
   The premises of all restaurants shall be kept clean and free of litter or
rubbish. None of the operations connected with a restaurant shall be conducted
in any room used as living or sleeping quarters. Adequate lockers or dressing
rooms shall be provided for employees clothing and shall be kept clean. Soiled
linens, coats and aprons shall be kept in containers provided for this purpose.
(Prior Code, § 121.22) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.58 LAVATORY FACILITIES.
   Adequate and convenient handwashing facilities shall be provided, including
hot and cold running water, soap and approved sanitary towels. The use of a
common towel is prohibited. No employee shall resume work after using the
toilet room without first washing their hands.
(Prior Code, § 121.23) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.59 TOILET FACILITIES.
   Every restaurant shall be provided with adequate and conveniently located
toilet facilities for its employees, conforming with the provisions of the
village. In restaurants hereafter constructed, toilet rooms shall not open
directly into any room in which food, drink or utensils are handled or stored.
The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self closing. Toilet rooms shall be kept
in a clean condition, in good repair and well lighted and ventilated.
Handwashing signs shall be posted in each toilet room used by employees.
(Prior Code, § 121.24) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.60 STORAGE AND HANDLING OF UTENSILS AND EQUIPMENT.
   After bactericidal treatment, utensils shall be stored in a clean, dry place
protected from flies, dust and other contamination, and shall be handled in
such a manner as to prevent contamination as far as practicable. Single-service
utensils shall be purchased only in sanitary containers; shall be stored
therein a clean, dry place until used; and shall be handled in a sanitary
manner.
(Prior Code, § 121.25) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.61 CONSTRUCTION OF UTENSILS AND EQUIPMENT.
   All multi-use utensils and all show and display cases or windows, counters,
shelves, tables, refrigeration equipment, sinks and other equipment or utensils
used in connection with the operation of a restaurant shall be easily cleaned
and kept in good repair. Utensils containing or plated with cadmium or lead
shall not be used provided that solder containing lead may be used for
jointing.
(Prior Code, § 121.26) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.62 CLEANING AND BACTERICIDAL TREATMENT OF UTENSILS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All equipment, including display cases or windows, counters, shelves,
tables, refrigerators, stoves, hoods and sinks shall be kept clean and free
from dust, dirt, insects and other contaminating material. All cloths used by
waiters, chefs and other employees shall be clean. Single-service containers
shall be used only once.
   (B)   All multi-use eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned
and effectively subjected to approved bactericidal process after each usage.
All multi-use utensils used in the preparation or service of food and drink
shall be thoroughly cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved
bactericidal process immediately following the day’s operation. Drying cloths,
if used, shall be clean and shall be used for no other purpose.
   (C)   No article, polish or other substance containing any cyanide
preparation or other poisonous material shall be used for the cleaning or
polishing of utensils.
(Prior Code, § 121.27) (Ord. 289, passed 11-5-1969) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
§§
121.35 through
121.39 and
121.50 through
121.62, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 121.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 122: FOOD TRUCKS AND FOOD TRUCK OPERATORS
Section
   
122.01   Definitions
   
122.02   Compliance with state and local laws
   
122.03   Permitted operators
   
122.04   Application
   
122.05   Conditions of license
   
122.06   Use standards
   
122.07   Hours of operation
   
122.08   Signage furnishing and fixtures
   
122.09   Suspension/revocation of license
   
122.10   Exemption; scope
 
   
122.99   Penalty
§ 122.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any natural person or entity, acting individually or for any
other person or entity in any capacity; or any other entity recognized by law,
other than the village, that submits an application to the village pursuant to
this chapter.
   BEVERAGES. A liquid for drinking that does not contain alcohol.
   ENTITY. Any association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation,
limited liability company, institution, agency, government corporation,
municipal corporation, district or other political subdivision, or any officer
(s), agent(s), employee(s) or other representative(s), acting individually or
for another individual or entity in any capacity.
   FOOD or FOODSTUFF. Any substance that is defined as a raw, cooked or
processed edible substance, ice, beverage, an ingredient used or intended for
use or for sale in whole or in part for human consumption, and chewing gum.
   FOOD DELIVERY VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is primarily used for the delivery
of food or beverages to consumers in the village, on request for such delivery,
but does not include vehicles that primarily make deliveries of supplies or
inventory to licensed food establishments, food stores or mobile food service
establishments.
   FOOD PREPARATION. Packaging, processing, cooking, assembling, portioning or
any operation that changes the form, flavor or consistency of food, but does
not include trimming of produce.
   FOOD TRUCK. A licensed, motorized vehicle modified to include facilities for
the cooking, processing and preparation of food and beverages, when temporarily
parked on property other than a public street, road or right-of-way, and from
which food items or beverages are then sold to the general public.
   FOOD TRUCK OPERATOR. The owner or operator of a food truck to be licensed
under this chapter, and who shall be the party responsible for the compliance
of the operations of the food truck with the requirements of this chapter, the
village code and other applicable laws and regulations.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any event and/or open-air meeting at which a group of people
are expected to gather, held in whole or in part on private property within the
village, including, but not limited to, HOA events, village- or government-
sponsored events, charity events, special events hosted at or by local
businesses or other public meetings or gatherings which significantly impact
the village or its residents in some way.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023)
§ 122.02 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND LOCAL LAWS.
   Each food truck that is permitted to operate at special events within the
village shall be operated in strict compliance with the regulations set forth
in this chapter as well as all applicable ordinances, laws, rules and
regulations, including, without limitation, all zoning, building, health, fire
and safety regulations, and all other provisions of this code, the Will County
Code and state law. If a conflict arises between applicable regulations, the
strictest regulation shall control.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.03 PERMITTED OPERATORS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village by its own accord, it shall
be unlawful for any food truck to operate within the village except at special
events for which the food truck operator has received a permit from the village
to allow for the operation of their food truck at and during the event and in
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent businesses within the village
from applying for a special event food truck permit which would allow a food
truck operator to operate near said business, even if the food truck may be
parked on the street or within 300 feet of another food-service business, so
long as the business has applied and been approved for such necessary permits
in accordance with the processes prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant desiring to operate a food truck at a special event must
provide the following supplemental documentation with a permit application, on
a form provided by the Department of Community Development:
      (1)   A statement indicating where and at what times the special event
will be held, which also specifies the locations and intended hours during
which a food truck will be present and operating;
      (2)   The name and address of the food preparation establishment or food
establishment where food items are to be prepared and/or packaged for sale by
the food truck operator from the food truck with copies of the establishment’s
most recent health inspection report and County Health Department permits, and
copies of the same documentation with respect to the food truck or food truck
operator;
      (3)   A description of the nature of the food and beverages offered by
the food truck;
      (4)   A letter of agreement from the food preparation establishment or
food service establishment where food items are prepared and/or packaged for
sale by the food truck operator from the food truck agreeing to comply with all
applicable laws and regulations;
      (5)   A description of the food truck to be used in conducting business
at the event;
      (6)   Copies of all necessary licenses or permits required by state
health or transportation authorities for the operation of the food truck which
may be submitted by the operator of said food truck;
      (7)   The permit application must include the written consent of the
property owner stating the food truck is allowed to operate on the property,
together with copies of any relevant documentation between the property owner
and the food truck operator evidencing the terms of such consent;
      (8)   A signed statement approved by the village as to form and substance
providing that the food truck operator and event host shall hold harmless the
village and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the village, its
officers and employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to
persons which may be occasioned by any activity carried out under the terms of
the license. Contemporaneously with the issuance of a license under this
chapter, the event host or food truck operator shall obtain or have in full
force and effect commercial general liability insurance coverage insuring the
food truck operator and the village with respect to occurrences arising out of
the activities authorized by the license, with such coverage having combined
single limits of not less than $1,000,000 for personal injury and death and
property damage per occurrence, and in the aggregate, which coverage shall
specifically refer to this license. Coverage of the village shall be by written
endorsement, naming the village as an additional insured; and
      (9)   (a)   The food truck operator shall further maintain automobile
liability insurance with coverage of not less than $1,000,000 for personal
injuries or death per occurrence and $1,000,000 for property damage per
occurrence. All insurance coverage provided under the license shall expressly
provide that it is primary and noncontributory to any insurance coverage
maintained by the village and shall waive any rights of recovery against the
village.
         (b)   Copies of all policies of insurance, certificates of insurance
and endorsements reflecting the coverages required under this agreement shall
be provided to the village prior to the issuance of any license under this
chapter. All such insurance coverage shall further provide that it may not be
canceled except upon 30 days’ written notice served upon the Village Manager. A
license issued pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be invalid at
any time the insurance required herein is not maintained and evidence of
continuing coverage is not filed with the Department of Community Development.
   (B)   At the time of application, all applicants shall pay a special event
food truck license fee of $50 which may be paid by the event host or food truck
operator.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023)
§ 122.05 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   In addition to naming the applicant and food truck operator, the approved
operating location and other information deemed appropriate by the Village
Department of Community Development, the license shall be subject to the
following conditions.
   (A)   Each license shall expire at the close of the event for which it was
issued.
   (B)   Each event shall last no longer than three days, and no more than two
events shall be held in any given month at any given location.
   (C)   The license shall not be transferable from one food truck operator or
from location to location or event to event without the review and approval of
the Department of Community Development.
   (D)   Each license is valid only for one food truck and is valid only for
the locations and events approved pursuant to the license application, or such
locations and events as are subsequently approved by the Department of
Community Development.
   (E)   There shall be issued to each applicant a suitable license that shall
be permanently affixed to the vehicle in a prominent location during the event.
   (F)   A license is only valid for and may only be issued in accordance with
the provisions of the village zoning ordinance as set forth in
Chapter 157.
   (G)   Issuance of a license shall be further subject to the condition that
the license applicant shall have had its food truck inspected by the village
for compliance with the applicable provisions of the International Fire Code as
adopted pursuant to
Chapter 91 not more than one year prior to the date of the event for which the
license is to be issued.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023)
§ 122.06 USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Food trucks must be brought to a complete stop, with the ignition
turned off, and be lawfully parked within the location approved for the license
prior to commencing operations.
   (B)   Food truck operators must provide or have garbage receptacles readily
available for immediate use by customers. Village trash receptacles are not to
be used for this purpose. Such receptacles shall be removed from the site upon
the conclusion of the event.
   (C)   Food truck operators must pick up, remove and dispose of all garbage,
refuse or litter consisting of foodstuffs, wrappers and/or materials at one
time dispensed from the food truck, and any residue deposited on the street
from the operation thereof, and shall otherwise maintain in a clean and debris-
free condition the entire area within a 25-foot radius of the location where
the business is operating.
   (E)   Food trucks must be located at least five feet from the edge of any
driveway or public sidewalk, utility boxes and vaults, handicapped ramp,
building entrance, exit or emergency access/exit way or emergency call box and
must not locate within any area of a lot that impedes, endangers or interferes
with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (F)   Food trucks must be located a minimum distance of 15 feet in all
directions of a fire hydrant.
   (G)   Food trucks must never occupy any handicap accessible parking space.
   (H)   No food truck operator shall sell, display, solicit, barter, gift and/
or exchange any food or beverages as provided in this code from a food truck
within 300 feet of the entrance to a business establishment which is open for
business and is offering for sale any food, beverages or foodstuffs as an item
offered for sale by the food truck operator; or within 300 feet of any
restaurant, café or eating establishment which is open for business. This
prohibition may be waived if the operator of the food truck has obtained
written consent of the owner of the relevant business or food service
establishment to operate within this minimum distance. A copy of such written
consent shall be maintained in the food truck for review on request by any
village employee or officer.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023)
§ 122.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Set up of a food truck may not occur before one hour prior to the permitted
time of the special event, and the end-of-the-day clean up must be completed
not later than one hour after the stated end time of the event. Food trucks
shall not be parked on the premises from which they operate under license
during the time period after end of the day clean up and before the permitted
set up time. Hours of operation beyond these specified hours for special events
conducted by an owner or occupant of the location proposed for the operation of
the food truck may be authorized only with prior approval by the Village
Department of Community Development, upon verification that the conduct of the
proposed event otherwise complies with the applicable ordinances of the
village, and the laws and regulations of any other governmental authorities
having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.08 SIGNAGE FURNISHING AND FIXTURES.
   All identifying information, logos, advertising, decorations or other
displays on the exterior of a food truck shall conform to the purposes set
forth in Chapter 157 to the extent possible. In particular, exterior displays
shall be designed to minimize confusion or distraction that jeopardizes
vehicular and pedestrian safety. It shall be unlawful for a food truck operator
to use or cause to be displayed while in transit or motion, flashing or
electronic signs or illuminated signs. It shall be unlawful for food truck
operators to display or utilize any signage that is not permanently affixed to
a mobile food unit unless a temporary sign permit application was filed in
accordance with Chapter 157.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.09 SUSPENSION/REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Operation of a food truck without valid licenses or permits from the
village, County Health Department and the state, as required, shall be a
violation of this chapter, and shall further render the food truck operator
subject to proceedings for the revocation of their food truck license.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023)
§ 122.10 EXEMPTION; SCOPE.
   Food delivery vehicles shall be exempt from the application of this chapter.
The regulations of this chapter shall only apply to the food truck operators in
connection with their operation of food trucks, as defined herein.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023)
§ 122.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The village may enforce the provisions of this chapter by filing an
action in the Circuit Court for the 12th Judicial Circuit of the county, or by
beginning adjudication processes in accordance with Chapter 41. Without
otherwise limiting the foregoing, the village may bring an action to collect
payment of unpaid fees or to compel the licensee to take actions to comply with
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person found to have violated any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof (or upon entry of a guilty plea or other
plea the substance of which is to admit or fail to contest the charged
violations of this chapter), be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for
a first violation, and not less than $250 nor more than $750 for a second or
subsequent violation.
(Ord. 23-1882, passed 12-6-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
132.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
137.   WEAPONS OFFENSES
      
138.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Administrative warning tickets
   
130.03   Safe school zones
Limitations on Prosecution
   
130.15   General limitations on prosecution
   
130.16   Extended limitations
   
130.17   Periods excluded from limitation
   
130.18   Limitation on offense based on series of acts
   
130.19   Effect of former prosecution
Principles of Liability
   
130.30   Voluntary act
   
130.31   Possession as voluntary act
   
130.32   Mental state
   
130.33   Intent
   
130.34   Knowledge
   
130.35   Recklessness
   
130.36   Negligence
   
130.37   Ignorance or mistake
   
130.38   Absolute liability
Parties to Crime
   
130.50   Accountability for conduct of another
   
130.51   When accountability exists
   
130.52   Separate conviction of person accountable
Inchoate Offenses
   
130.65   Solicitation and solicitation of murder
   
130.66   Conspiracy
   
130.67   Attempt
 
   
130.99   General penalty for Title XIII
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACQUITTAL. A verdict or finding of not guilty of an offense, rendered by a
legally constituted jury or by a court of competent jurisdiction authorized to
try the case without a jury.
   ACT. The taking of action or a failure or omission to take action.
(720 ILCS 5/2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender.
(720 ILCS 5/2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(720 ILCS 5/2-4)
   CONVICTION. A judgment of conviction or sentence entered upon a plea of
guilty or upon a verdict or finding of guilty of an offense, rendered by a
legally constituted jury or by a court of competent jurisdiction authorized to
try the case without a jury.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, a tent, a vehicle or other enclosed
space which is used or intended for use as a human habitation, home or
residence.
   INCLUDED OFFENSE. An offense which:
      (1)   Is established by proof of the same or less than all of the facts
or a less culpable mental state (or both), than that which is required to
establish the commission of the offense charged; or
      (2)   Consists of an attempt to commit the offense charged or an offense
included therein.
   INCLUDES or INCLUDING. Comprehending among other particulars, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing word or phrase.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed under state
law.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning ascribed to it in the Illinois Vehicle
Code.
   OFFENSE. A violation of a penal statute of the village or state.
(720 ILCS 5/2-12)
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person who, by virtue of their office or public
employment, is vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make
arrests for offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited
to specific offenses, or any person who, by statute, is granted and authorized
to exercise powers similar to those conferred upon any peace officer employed
by a law enforcement agency of this state.
   PROSECUTION. All legal proceedings by which a person’s liability for an
offense is determined, commencing with the return of the indictment or the
issuance of the information, and including the final disposition of the case
upon appeal.
   PUBLIC EMPLOYEE. A person, other than a public officer, who is authorized to
perform any official function on behalf of, and is paid by, the state or any of
its political subdivisions.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. A person who is elected to office pursuant to statute, or
who is appointed to an office which is established, and the qualifications and
duties of which are prescribed by statute, to discharge a public duty for the
state or any of its political subdivisions.
   REASONABLE BELIEF or REASONABLY BELIEVES. The person concerned, acting as a
reasonable person, believes that the described facts exist.
   SOLICIT or SOLICITATION. To command, authorize, urge, incite, request or
advise another to commit an offense.
   STATUTE. The constitution or an act of the General Assembly of this state.
(Prior Code, § 130.01)
Statutory reference:
   Acquittal, see 720 ILCS 5/2-l
   Conviction, see 720 ILCS 5/2-5
   Dwelling, see 720 ILCS 5/2-6
   Included offense, see 720 ILCS 5/2-9
   Includes or including, see 720 ILCS 5/2-10
   Misdemeanor, see 720 ILCS 5/2-11
   Motor vehicle, see 720 ILCS 5/2-11.1
   Peace officer, see 720 ILCS 5/2-13
   Prosecution, see 720 ILCS 5/2-16
   Public employee, see 720 ILCS 5/2-17
   Public officer, see 720 ILCS 5/2-18
   Reasonable belief or reasonably believes, see 720 ILCS 5/2-19
   Solicit or solicitation, see 720 ILCS 5/2-20
   Statute, see 720 ILCS 5/2-22
§ 130.02 ADMINISTRATIVE WARNING TICKETS.
   For provisions concerning administrative warning tickets for various
offenses included in this title, see
Chapter 40.
(Prior Code, § 130.011)
§ 130.03 SAFE SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   The Village Administrator or their designee is authorized to erect and
maintain “Safe School Zone” signs which will inform the public that increased
penalties will be imposed for illegal activity within the 1,000-foot area
around public and private elementary and secondary schools.
   (B)   Such signs shall be erected on public rights-of-way in conspicuous
places no more than 1,000 feet from such schools.
(Prior Code, § 130.012) (Ord. 2253-94, passed 1-19-1994)
**** LIMITATIONS ON PROSECUTION ****
§ 130.15 GENERAL LIMITATIONS ON PROSECUTION.
   (A)   (1)   A prosecution for:
         (a)   First degree murder, attempt to commit first degree murder,
second degree murder, involuntary manslaughter, reckless homicide or a
violation of § 11-501(d)(1)(F) of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/
11-501(d)(1)(F), for the offense of aggravated driving under the influence of
alcohol, other drug or drugs or intoxicating compound or compounds, or any
combination thereof when the violation was a proximate cause of a death,
leaving the scene of a motor vehicle crash involving death or personal injuries
under 625 ILCS 5/11-401 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, failing to give
information and render aid under 625 ILCS 5/11-403 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, concealment of homicidal death, treason, arson, residential arson,
aggravated arson, forgery, child pornography under 720 ILCS 5/11-20.1(a)(1),
aggravated child pornography under 720 ILCS 5/11-20.1(c-5); or
         (b)   Any offense involving sexual conduct or sexual penetration, as
defined by 720 ILCS 5/11-0.1, may be commenced at any time.
      (2)   A prosecution for theft of property exceeding $100,000 in value
under 720 ILCS 5/16-1, identity theft under 720 ILCS 5/16-30(a), aggravated
identity theft under 720 ILCS 5/16-30(b), financial exploitation of an elderly
person or a person with a disability under 720 ILCS 5/17-56, theft by deception
of a victim 60 years of age or older or a person with a disability under 720
ILCS 5/16-1 or any offense set forth in 720 ILCS 5/17-10.6 may be commenced
within seven years of the last act committed in furtherance of the crime.
   (B)   Unless the statute describing the offense provides otherwise, or the
period of limitation is extended by §
130.16, a prosecution for any offense not designated in division (A) above must
be commenced within three years after the commission of the offense if it is a
felony, or within one year and six months after its commission if it is a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 130.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/3-5
§ 130.16 EXTENDED LIMITATIONS.
   The period in which a prosecution must be commenced under the provisions of
§
130.15 or any other applicable provision of this code is extended under the
following conditions:
   (A)   A prosecution for theft involving a breach of a fiduciary obligation
to the aggrieved person may be commenced as follows:
      (1)   If the aggrieved person is a minor or a person under legal
disability, then during the minority or legal disability or within one year
after the termination thereof; and
      (2)   In any other instance, within one year after the discovery of the
offense by an aggrieved person, or by a person who has legal capacity to
represent an aggrieved person or has a legal duty to report the offense, and is
not themself a party to the offense; or in the absence of such discovery,
within one year after the proper prosecuting officer becomes aware of the
offense. However, in no such case is the period of limitation so extended more
than three years beyond the expiration of the period otherwise applicable.
   (B)   (1)   A prosecution for any offense based upon misconduct in office by
a public officer or employee may be commenced within one year after discovery
of the offense by a person having a legal duty to report such offense, or in
the absence of such discovery, within one year after the proper prosecuting
officer becomes aware of the offense. However, in no such case is the period of
limitation so extended more than three years beyond the expiration of the
period otherwise applicable.
      (2)   When the victim is under 18 years of age at the time of the
offense, a prosecution for involuntary servitude, involuntary sexual servitude
of a minor or trafficking in persons and related offenses under § 10-9 of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., may be commenced within
25 years of the victim attaining the age of 18 years.
      (3)   When the victim is 18 years of age or over at the time of the
offense, a prosecution for involuntary servitude, involuntary sexual servitude
of a minor or trafficking in persons and related offenses under § 10-9 of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., may be commenced within
25 years after the commission of the offense.
      (4)   When the victim is under 18 years of age at the time of the
offense, a prosecution for female genital mutilation may be commenced at any
time.
   (C)   A prosecution for child pornography, aggravated child pornography,
indecent solicitation of a child, soliciting for a sexually exploited child,
juvenile pimping, exploitation of a child or promoting commercial sexual
exploitation of a child except for keeping a place of commercial sexual
exploitation of a child may be commenced within one year of the victim
attaining the age of 18 years. However, in no such case shall the time period
for prosecution expire sooner than three years after the commission of the
offense;
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G) below, a prosecution for
any offense involving sexual conduct or sexual penetration, as defined in § 11-
0.1 of the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., where the
defendant was within a professional or fiduciary relationship or a purported
professional or fiduciary relationship with the victim at the time of the
commission of the offense may be commenced within one year after the discovery
of the offense by the victim;
   (E)   (1)   A prosecution for any offense set forth in § 44 of the
Environmental Protection Act, being 415 ILCS 4/44, as amended, may be commenced
within five years after the discovery of such an offense by a person or agency
having the legal duty to report the offense or in the absence of such
discovery, within five years after the proper prosecuting officer becomes aware
of the offense.
      (2)   A prosecution for any offense set forth in § 16-30 of the Illinois
Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., may be commenced within five
years after the discovery of the offense by the victim of that offense.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G) below, a
prosecution for criminal sexual assault, aggravated criminal sexual assault or
aggravated criminal sexual abuse may be commenced at any time. If the victim
consented to the collection of evidence using a State Police sexual assault
evidence collection kit under the Sexual Assault Survivors Emergency Treatment
Act, being 410 ILCS 70/1 et seq., it shall constitute reporting for purposes of
this section.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (F) shall be construed to shorten a
period within which a prosecution must be commenced under any other provision
of this section.
      (2)   A prosecution for armed robbery, home invasion, kidnapping or
aggravated kidnaping may be commenced within ten years of the commission of the
offense if it arises out of the same course of conduct and meets the criteria
under one of the offenses in this division (F).
   (G)   (1)   (a)   When the victim is under 18 years of age at the time of
the offense, a prosecution for criminal sexual assault, aggravated criminal
sexual assault, predatory criminal sexual assault of a child, aggravated
criminal sexual abuse, felony criminal sexual abuse or female genital
mutilation may be commenced at any time.
         (b)   When in circumstances other than as described in division (G)(1)
(a) above, when the victim is under 18 years of age at the time of the offense,
a prosecution for failure of a person who is required to report an alleged or
suspected commission of criminal sexual assault, aggravated criminal sexual
assault, predatory criminal sexual assault of a child, aggravated criminal
sexual abuse or felony criminal sexual abuse under the Abused and Neglected
Child Reporting Act, 325 ILCS 5/1 et seq., may be commenced within 20 years
after the child victim attains 18 years of age.
         (c)   When the victim is under 18 years of age at the time of the
offense, a prosecution for misdemeanor criminal sexual abuse may be commenced
within ten years after the child victim attains 18 years of age.
         (d)   Nothing in this subdivision (G) shall be construed to shorten a
period within which a prosecution must be commenced under any other provision
of this section.
      (2)   A prosecution for armed robbery, home invasion, kidnapping or
aggravated kidnaping may be commenced at any time if it arises out of the same
course of conduct and meets the criteria under one of the offenses in this
division (G).
   (H)   (1)   A prosecution for any offense set forth in § 26-4 of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., may be commenced within
one year after the discovery of the offense by the victim of that offense.
      (2)   A prosecution for any offense involving sexual conduct or sexual
penetration, as defined in § 11-0.1 of the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, 720
ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., in which the victim was 18 years of age or older at the
time of the offense, may be commenced within one year after the discovery of
the offense by the victim when corroborating physical evidence is available.
The charging document shall state that the statute of limitations is extended
under this division (H)(2) and shall state the circumstances justifying the
extension. Nothing in this division (H)(2) shall be construed to shorten a
period within which a prosecution must be commenced under any other provision
of this section or § 3-5 of the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-
1 et seq.
   (I)   The prosecution shall not be required to prove at trial facts which
extend the general limitations in § 3-5 of the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012,
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., when the facts supporting extension of the period of
general limitations are properly pled in the charging document. Any challenge
relating to the extension of the general limitations period as defined in this
section shall be exclusively conducted under § 114-1 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure of 1963;
   (J)   A prosecution for any offense set forth in subsection (a), (b) or (c)
of §§ 8A-3 or 8A-13 of the Illinois Public Aid Code, in which the total amount
of money involved is $5,000 or more, including the monetary value of food
stamps and the value of commodities under § 16-1 of this Code may be commenced
within five years of the last act committed in furtherance of the offense; and
   (K)   A prosecution for any offense based upon fraudulent activity connected
to COVID-19-related relief programs, to include the Paycheck Protection
Program, COVID-19 Economic Injury Disaster Loan Program and the Unemployment
Benefit Programs, shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the
offense by a person having a legal duty to report such offense, or in the
absence of such discovery, within five years after the proper prosecuting
officer becomes aware of the offense. However, in no such case is the period of
limitation so extended more than ten years beyond the expiration of the period
otherwise applicable.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/3-6
§ 130.17 PERIODS EXCLUDED FROM LIMITATION.
   (A)   (1)   The period within which a prosecution must be commenced does not
include any period in which:
         (a)   The defendant is not usually and publicly resident within this
state;
         (b)   The defendant is a public officer and the offense charged is
theft of public funds while in public office;
         (c)   A prosecution is pending against the defendant for the same
conduct, even if the indictment or information which commences the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings thereon are set aside, or are reversed on appeal;
         (d)   A proceeding or an appeal from a proceeding relating to the
quashing or enforcement of a grand jury subpoena issued in connection with an
investigation of a violation of a criminal law of this state is pending.
However, the period within which a prosecution must be commenced includes any
period in which the state brings a proceeding or an appeal from a proceeding
specified in this division (A)(1)(d);
         (e)   A material witness is placed on active military duty or leave.
In this division (A)(1)(e), MATERIAL WITNESS includes, but is not limited to,
the arresting officer, occurrence witness or the alleged victim of the offense;
         (f)   The victim of unlawful force or threat of imminent bodily harm
to obtain information or a confession is incarcerated, and the victim’s
incarceration, in whole or in part, is a consequence of the unlawful force or
threats; or
         (g)   The sexual assault evidence is collected and submitted to the
Department of State Police until the completion of the analysis of the
submitted evidence.
   (2)   The prosecution shall not be required to prove at trial facts
establishing periods excluded from the general limitations in 720 ILCS 5/3-
5 when the facts supporting periods being excluded from the general limitations
are properly pled in the charging document. Any challenge relating to periods
of exclusion as defined in this section shall be exclusively conducted under §
114-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963, being 725 ILCS 5/114-1.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPLETION OF THE ANALYSIS OF THE SUBMITTED EVIDENCE. Analysis of the
collected evidence and conducting of laboratory tests and the comparison of the
collected evidence with the genetic marker grouping analysis information
maintained by the State Police under § 5-4-3 of the Unified Code of
Corrections, being 730 ILCS 5/5-4-3, and with the information contained in the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s National DNA database.
      SEXUAL ASSAULT. Has the meaning ascribed to it in § 1a of the Sexual
Assault Survivors Emergency Treatment Act, being 410 ILCS 70/1a.
      SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE. Has the meaning ascribed to it in § 5 of the
Sexual Assault Evidence Submission Act, being 725 ILCS 202/5.
(Prior Code, § 130.04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/3-7
§ 130.18 LIMITATION ON OFFENSE BASED ON SERIES OF ACTS.
   When an offense is based on a series of acts performed at different times,
the period of limitation prescribed by this chapter starts at the time when the
last such act is committed.
(Prior Code, § 130.05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/3-8
§ 130.19 EFFECT OF FORMER PROSECUTION.
   (A)   (1)   A prosecution is barred if the defendant was formerly prosecuted
for the same offense, based upon the same facts, if that former prosecution:
         (a)   Resulted in either a conviction or an acquittal or in a
determination that the evidence was insufficient to warrant a conviction;
         (b)   Was terminated by a final order or judgment, even if entered
before trial, that required a determination inconsistent with any fact or legal
proposition necessary to a conviction in the subsequent prosecution; or
         (c)   Was terminated improperly after the jury was impaneled and sworn
or, in a trial before a court without a jury, after the first witness was sworn
but before findings were rendered by the trier of facts or after a plea of
guilty was accepted by the court.
      (2)   A conviction of an included offense, other than through a plea of
guilty, is an acquittal of the offense charged.
   (B)   A prosecution is barred if the defendant was formerly prosecuted for a
different offense, or for the same offense based on different facts, if that
former prosecution:
      (1)   Resulted in either a conviction or an acquittal, and the subsequent
prosecution is for an offense of which the defendant could have been convicted
on the former prosecution; or was for an offense with which the defendant
should have been charged on the former prosecution, as provided in 720 ILCS 5/
3-3 (unless the court ordered a separate trial of that charge); or was for an
offense that involves the same conduct, unless each prosecution requires proof
of a fact not required on the other prosecution, or the offense was not
consummated when the former trial began;
      (2)   Was terminated by a final order or judgment, even if entered before
trial, that required a determination inconsistent with any fact necessary to a
conviction in the subsequent prosecution; or
      (3)   Was terminated improperly under the circumstances stated in
division (A) above, and the subsequent prosecution is for an offense of which
the defendant could have been convicted if the former prosecution had not been
terminated improperly.
   (C)   A prosecution is barred if the defendant was formerly prosecuted in a
District Court of the United States or in a sister state for an offense that is
within the concurrent jurisdiction of this state, if that former prosecution:
      (1)   Resulted in either a conviction or an acquittal, and the subsequent
prosecution is for the same conduct, unless each prosecution requires proof of
a fact not required in the other prosecution, or the offense was not
consummated when the former trial began; or
      (2)   Was terminated by a final order or judgment, even if entered before
trial, that required a determination inconsistent with any fact necessary to a
conviction in the prosecution of this state.
   (D)   A prosecution is not barred within the meaning of this section,
however, if the former prosecution:
      (1)   Was before a court that lacked jurisdiction over the defendant or
the offense; or
      (2)   Was procured by the defendant without the knowledge of the proper
prosecuting officer, and with the purpose of avoiding the sentence that
otherwise might be imposed; or if subsequent proceedings resulted in the
invalidation, setting aside, reversal or vacating of the conviction, unless the
defendant was thereby adjudged not guilty.
(Prior Code, § 130.06)
Statutory reference:
   Multiple prosecutions for the same act, see 720 ILCS 5/3-3
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/3-4
**** PRINCIPLES OF LIABILITY ****
§ 130.30 VOLUNTARY ACT.
   A material element of every offense is a voluntary act, which includes an
omission to perform a duty which the law imposes on the offender, and which
they are physically capable of performing.
(Prior Code, § 130.10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 130.31 POSSESSION AS VOLUNTARY ACT.
   Possession is a voluntary act if the offender knowingly procured or received
the thing possessed, or was aware of their control thereof for a sufficient
time to have been able to terminate their possession.
(Prior Code, § 130.11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/4-2
§ 130.32 MENTAL STATE.
   (A)   A person is not guilty of an offense, other than an offense which
involves absolute liability, unless, with respect to each element described by
the section defining the offense, they act while having one of the mental
states described in §§
130.33 through
130.36.
   (B)   If the section defining an offense prescribed a particular mental
state with respect to the offense as a whole, without distinguishing among the
elements thereof, the prescribed mental state applies to each such element. If
the section does not prescribe a particular mental state applicable to an
element of an offense (other than an offense which involves absolute
liability), any mental state defined in §§
130.33,
130.34 or
130.35 is applicable.
   (C)   Knowledge that certain conduct constitutes an offense, or knowledge of
the existence, meaning or application of the section defining an offense, is
not an element of the offense unless the section clearly defines it as such.
(Prior Code, § 130.12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/4-3
§ 130.33 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
their conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or engage in
that conduct.
(720 ILCS 5/4-4)
Statutory reference:
   Defenses concerning capacity, see 720 ILCS 5/6-l through 6-4
§ 130.34 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   (a)   The nature or attendant circumstances of their conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when they are consciously aware
that their conduct is of that nature or that those circumstances exist; and/or
         (b)   A material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that the fact exists.
      (2)   The result of their conduct, described by the section defining the
offense, when they are consciously aware that that result is practically
certain to be caused by their conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed willfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the term “willfully,” unless the section
clearly requires another meaning.
   (C)   When the law provides that acting knowingly suffices to establish an
element of an offense, that element also is established if a person acts
intentionally.
(720 ILCS 5/4-5)
§ 130.35 RECKLESSNESS.
   (A)   A person is reckless or acts recklessly when that person consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the section defining the offense, and
that disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
   (B)   An act performed recklessly is performed wantonly, within the meaning
of a section using the term “wantonly,” unless the statute clearly requires
another meaning.
(720 ILCS 5/4-6)
§ 130.36 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when that person fails to be
aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a
result will follow, described by the statute defining the offense, and that
failure constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(720 ILCS 5/4-7)
§ 130.37 IGNORANCE OR MISTAKE.
   (A)   A person’s ignorance or mistake as to a matter of either fact or law,
except as provided in §
130.32(C), is a defense if it negatives the existence of the mental state which
the section prescribes with respect to an element of the offense.
   (B)   A person’s reasonable belief that their conduct does not constitute an
offense is a defense if:
      (1)   The offense is defined by an administrative regulation or order
which is not known to them and has not been published or otherwise made
reasonably available to them, and they could not have acquired such knowledge
by the exercise of due diligence pursuant to facts known to them;
      (2)   They act in reliance upon a section which later is determined to be
invalid;
      (3)   They act in reliance upon an order or opinion of a State Appellate
or Supreme Court, or a United States Appellate Court later overruled or
reversed; or
      (4)   They act in reliance upon an official interpretation of the
section, regulation or order defining the offense made by a public officer or
agency legally authorized to interpret such section.
   (C)   Although a person’s ignorance or mistake of fact or law, or reasonable
belief, described in this section is a defense to the offense charged, they may
be convicted of an included offense of which they would be guilty if the fact
or law were as they believed it to be.
   (D)   A defense based upon this section is an affirmative defense.
(Prior Code, § 130.17)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/4-8
§ 130.38 ABSOLUTE LIABILITY.
   A person may be guilty of an offense without having, as to each element
thereof, one of the mental states described in §§
130.33 through
130.36 if the offense is a misdemeanor which is not punishable by incarceration
or by a fine exceeding $1,000, or the section defining the offense clearly
indicates a legislative purpose to impose absolute liability for the conduct
described.
(Prior Code, § 130.18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/4-9
**** PARTIES TO CRIME ****
§ 130.50 ACCOUNTABILITY FOR CONDUCT OF ANOTHER.
   A person is responsible for conduct which is an element of an offense if the
conduct is either that of the person themself or that of another and they are
legally accountable for such conduct as provided in §
130.51, or both.
(Prior Code, § 130.20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/5-1
§ 130.51 WHEN ACCOUNTABILITY EXISTS.
   A person is legally accountable for the conduct of another when:
   (A)   Having a mental state described by the statute defining the offense,
they cause another to perform the conduct, and the other person in fact or by
reason of legal incapacity lacks such mental state;
   (B)   The section defining the offense makes them so accountable; or
   (C)   (1)   Either before or during the commission of an offense, and with
the intent to promote or facilitate that commission, they solicit, aid, abet,
agree or attempt to aid that other person in the planning or commission of the
offense. When two or more persons engage in a common criminal design or
agreement, any acts in the furtherance of that common design committed by one
party are considered to be the acts of all parties to the common design or
agreement and all are equally responsible for the consequences of those further
acts. Mere presence at the scene of a crime does not render a person
accountable for an offense; a person’s presence at the scene of a crime,
however, may be considered with other circumstances by the trier of fact when
determining accountability.
      (2)   A person is not so accountable, however, unless the section
defining the offense provides otherwise, if:
         (a)   They are a victim of the offense committed;
         (b)   The offense is so defined that their conduct was inevitably
incident to its commission; or
         (c)   Before the commission of the offense, they terminate their
effort to promote or facilitate that commission and does one of the following:
wholly deprives their prior efforts of effectiveness in that commission, gives
timely warning to the proper law enforcement authorities or otherwise makes
proper effort to prevent the commission of the offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.21)
Statutory reference:
   Accountability of corporations and agents of corporations, 720 ILCS 5/5-
3 through 5-5
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/5-2
§ 130.52 SEPARATE CONVICTION OF PERSON ACCOUNTABLE.
   A person who is legally accountable for the conduct of another which is an
element of an offense may be convicted upon proof that the offense was
committed and that they were so accountable, although the other person claimed
to have committed the offense, has not been prosecuted or convicted or has been
convicted of a different offense or degree of offense, or is not amenable to
justice, or has been acquitted.
(Prior Code, § 130.22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/5-3
**** INCHOATE OFFENSES ****
§ 130.65 SOLICITATION AND SOLICITATION OF MURDER.
   (A)   Solicitation. A person commits the offense of solicitation when, with
intent that an offense be committed, other than first degree murder, they
command, encourage or request another to commit that offense.
   (B)   Solicitation of murder. A person commits the offense of solicitation
of murder when they commit solicitation with the intent that the offense of
first degree murder be committed.
   (C)   Sentence. A person convicted of solicitation may be fined or
imprisoned or both not to exceed the maximum provided for the offense
solicited, except that the penalty shall not exceed the corresponding maximum
limit provided by §
130.67(C). Solicitation of murder is a Class X felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(Prior Code, § 130.25)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/8-1
§ 130.66 CONSPIRACY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits the offense of conspiracy
when, with intent that an offense be committed, they agree with another to the
commission of that offense. No person may be convicted of conspiracy to commit
an offense unless an act in furtherance of that agreement is alleged and proved
to have been committed by them or by a co-conspirator.
   (B)   Co-conspirators. It is not a defense to conspiracy that the person or
persons with whom the accused is alleged to have conspired:
      (1)   Have not been prosecuted or convicted;
      (2)   Have been convicted of a different offense;
      (3)   Are not amenable to justice;
      (4)   Have been acquitted; or
      (5)   Lacked the capacity to commit an offense.
   (C)   Conviction. A person convicted of conspiracy may be fined not to
exceed the maximum provided for the offense that is the object of the
conspiracy.
(Prior Code, § 130.26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/8-2
§ 130.67 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits the offense of attempt when,
with intent to commit a specific offense, they do any act that constitutes a
substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
   (B)   Impossibility. It is not a defense to a charge of attempt that,
because of a misapprehension of the circumstances, it would have been
impossible for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
   (C)   Statutory fine. A person convicted of attempt may be fined or
imprisoned or both, not to exceed the maximum provided for the offense
attempted. If the fine exceeds that set forth in §
130.99, however, the village shall enforce the offense under the provisions of
state law.
(720 ILCS 5/8-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Sentencing for felony classes, murder-related sentencing, see 720 ILCS 5/8-4
§ 130.99 GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose penalties, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
131.01   Assault
   
131.02   Aggravated assault
   
131.03   Battery
   
131.04   Reckless conduct
   
131.05   Tattooing body of minor
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 ASSAULT.
   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, they engage in
conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
(Prior Code, § 131.01) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-1
§ 131.02 AGGRAVATED ASSAULT.
   (A)   Offense based on location of conduct. A person commits aggravated
assault when they commit an assault against an individual who is on or about a
public way, public property, a public place of accommodation or amusement or a
sports venue or in a church, synagogue, mosque or other building, structure or
place used for religious worship.
   (B)   Offense based on status of victim. A person commits aggravated assault
when, in committing an assault, they know the individual assaulted to be any of
the following:
      (1)   A physically handicapped person or a person 60 years of age or
older and the assault is without legal justification;
      (2)   A teacher or school employee upon school grounds or grounds
adjacent to a school or in any part of a building used for school purposes;
      (3)   A park district employee upon park grounds or grounds adjacent to a
park or in any part of a building used for park purposes;
      (4)   A peace officer, community policing volunteer, firefighter, private
security officer, emergency management worker, emergency medical technician or
utility worker:
         (a)   Performing their official duties;
         (b)   Assaulted to prevent performance of their official duties; or
         (c)   Assaulted in retaliation for performing their official duties.
      (5)   A correctional officer or probation officer:
         (a)   Performing their official duties;
         (b)   Assaulted to prevent performance of their official duties; or
         (c)   Assaulted in retaliation for performing their official duties.
      (6)   A correctional institution employee, a county juvenile detention
center employee who provides direct and continuous supervision of residents of
a juvenile detention center, including a county juvenile detention center
employee who supervises recreational activity for residents of a juvenile
detention center, or a Department of Human Services employee, Department of
Human Services officer or employee of a subcontractor of the Department of
Human Services supervising or controlling sexually dangerous persons or
sexually violent persons:
         (a)   Performing their official duties;
         (b)   Assaulted to prevent performance of their official duties; or
         (c)   Assaulted in retaliation for performing their official duties.
      (7)   An employee of the state, a municipal corporation therein or a
political subdivision thereof, performing their official duties;
      (8)   A transit employee performing their official duties, or a transit
passenger;
      (9)   A sports official or coach actively participating in any level of
athletic competition within a sports venue, on an indoor playing field or
outdoor playing field or within the immediate vicinity of such a facility or
field; and
      (10)   A person authorized to serve process under § 2-202 of the Code of
Civil Procedure or a special process server appointed by the circuit court,
while that individual is in the performance of their duties as a process
server.
   (C)   Offense based on use of firearm, device or motor vehicle. A person
commits aggravated assault when, in committing an assault, they do any of the
following:
      (1)   Uses a deadly weapon, an air rifle as defined in 720 ILCS 5/24.8-
0.1 or any device manufactured and designed to be substantially similar in
appearance to a firearm, other than by discharging a firearm;
      (2)   Discharges a firearm, other than from a motor vehicle;
      (3)   Discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Wears a hood, robe or mask to conceal their identity;
      (5)   Knowingly and without lawful justification shines or flashes a
laser gun sight or other laser device attached to a firearm, or used in concert
with a firearm, so that the laser beam strikes near or in the immediate
vicinity of any person;
      (6)   Uses a firearm, other than by discharging the firearm, against a
peace officer, community policing volunteer, firefighter, private security
officer, emergency management worker, emergency medical services personnel,
employee of a police department, employee of a sheriff’s department or traffic-
control municipal employee:
         (a)   Performing their official duties;
         (b)   Assaulted to prevent performance of their official duties; or
         (c)   Assaulted in retaliation for performing their official duties.
      (7)   Without justification operates a motor vehicle in a manner which
places a person, other than a person listed in division (B)(4) above, in
reasonable apprehension of being struck by the moving motor vehicle;
      (8)   Without justification operates a motor vehicle in a manner which
places a person listed in division (B)(4) above, in reasonable apprehension of
being struck by the moving motor vehicle; and
      (9)   Knowingly video or audio records the offense with the intent to
disseminate the recording.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, CATEGORY I WEAPON,
CATEGORY II WEAPON and CATEGORY III WEAPON have the meanings ascribed to those
terms in 720 ILCS 5/33A-1.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-2
§ 131.03 BATTERY.
   A person commits battery if they knowingly, without legal justification, by
any means, cause bodily harm to an individual or makes physical contact of an
insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-3
§ 131.04 RECKLESS CONDUCT.
   A person commits reckless conduct when they, by any means lawful or
unlawful, recklessly perform an act or acts that:
   (A)   Cause bodily harm to or endanger the safety of another person; or
   (B)   Cause great bodily harm or permanent disability or disfigurement to
another person.
(Prior Code, § 131.04) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-5
§ 131.05 TATTOOING BODY OF MINOR.
   (A)   TATTOO means to insert pigment under the surface of the skin of a
human being, by pricking with a needle or otherwise, so as to produce an
indelible mark or figure visible through the skin.
   (B)   A person, other than a person licensed to practice medicine in all its
branches, commits tattooing the body of a minor when they knowingly or
recklessly tattoos or offers to tattoo a person under the age of 18.
   (C)   A person who is an owner or employee of a business that performs
tattooing, other than a person licensed to practice medicine in all its
branches, may not permit a person under 18 years of age to enter or remain on
the premises where tattooing is being performed unless the person under 18
years of age is accompanied by their parent or legal guardian.
   (D)   Division (B) above does not apply to a person under 18 years of age
who tattoos or offers to tattoo another person under 18 years of age away from
the premises of any business at which tattooing is performed.
   (E)   Divisions (A) and (B) above do not apply to the removal of a tattoo
from a person under 18 years of age, who is a victim of a violation of 720 ILCS
5/10-9 or who is or has been a streetgang member as defined in § 10 of the
Illinois Streetgang Terrorism Omnibus Prevention Act, being 740 ILCS 147/10, if
the removal of the tattoo is performed in an establishment or multi-type
establishment which has received a certificate of registration from the
Department of Public Health or its agent under the Tattoo and Body Piercing
Establishment Registration Act, 410 ILCS 54/1, and the removal of the tattoo is
performed by the operator or an authorized employee of the operator of the
establishment or multi-type establishment. For the purposes of this division
(E), TATTOO also means the indelible mark or figure visible through the skin
created by tattooing.
(Prior Code, § 131.05) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12C-35
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Assault under §
131.01 is a misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of assault to perform community service for
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours, if community service is available
in the jurisdiction and is funded and approved by the county board of the
county where the offense was committed. In addition, whenever any person is
placed on supervision for an alleged offense under this section, the
supervision shall be conditioned upon the performance of the community service.
This division does not apply when the court imposes a sentence of
incarceration.
(Prior Code, § 131.01)
   (C)   Aggravated assault as defined in §
131.02(A), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(7), (B)(8), (B)(9), (C)(1), (C)
(4) or (C)(9) is a Class A misdemeanor, except that aggravated assault as
defined in §
131.02(B)(4) and (B)(7), is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if a Category I, Category II or Category III weapon is used in the
commission of the assault. Aggravated assault, as defined in §
131.02(B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(10), (C)(2), (C)(5), (C)(6) or (C)(7), is a Class 4
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Aggravated assault, as
defined in §
131.02(C)(3) or (C)(8), is a Class 3 felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(Prior Code, § 131.02)
   (D)   Battery under §
131.03 is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 131.03)
   (E)   Reckless conduct under §
131.04(A) is a Class A misdemeanor. Reckless conduct under §
131.04(B) is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(Prior Code, § 131.04)
   (F)   A violation of §
131.05 is a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 131.05)
(Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.001   Definitions
   
132.002   Jackrocks
Theft Generally
   
132.015   Theft
   
132.016   Theft of lost or mislaid property
   
132.017   Theft of labor or services or use of property
   
132.018   Theft from coin-operated machines
   
132.019   Theft-related devices
Retail Theft
   
132.030   Retail theft
   
132.031   Detention of suspects by merchants
   
132.032   Civil liability for retail theft; parental liability for willful or
malicious acts of a minor
Damage and Trespass to Property
   
132.045   Criminal damage to property
   
132.046   Criminal defacement
   
132.047   Criminal trespass to vehicles
   
132.048   Criminal trespass to real property
   
132.049   Criminal trespass to residence
Deception
   
132.060   Deception generally
   
132.061   False statements to financial institution
   
132.062   Wrongful possession of checks
   
132.063   Possession of implements of check fraud
   
132.064   Impersonating member or representative of police or other
organization
Other Property Offenses
   
132.075   Disclosure of information by tax return preparers
   
132.076   Inducements to sell or purchase real estate by reason of race or
religion; unwanted solicitation
   
132.077   Criminal housing management
   
132.078   Graffiti prohibited
 
   
132.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 132.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECEPTION. Knowingly to:
      (1)   Create or confirm another’s impression which is false and which the
offender does not believe to be true;
      (2)   Fail to correct a false impression which the offender previously
has created or confirmed;
      (3)   Prevent another from acquiring information pertinent to the
disposition of the property involved;
      (4)   Sell or otherwise transfer or encumber property, failing to
disclose a lien, adverse claim or other legal impediment to the enjoyment of
the property, whether such impediment is or is not valid, or is or is not a
matter of official record; or
      (5)   Promise performance which the offender does not intend to perform
or knows will not be performed. Failure to perform standing alone is not
evidence that the offender did not intend to perform.
   OBTAIN.
      (1)   In relation to property, to bring about a transfer of interest or
possession, whether to the offender or to another; and
      (2)   In relation to labor or services, to secure the performance
thereof.
   OBTAIN OR EXERT CONTROL OVER PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, the
taking, carrying away or the sale, conveyance or transfer of title to, or
interest in, or possession of property.
   OWNER. A person, other than the offender, who has possession of, or any
other interest in the property involved, even though the interest or possession
is unlawful, and without whose consent the offender has no authority to exert
control over the property.
   PERMANENTLY DEPRIVE.
      (1)   To defeat all recovery of the property by the owner;
      (2)   To deprive the owner permanently of the beneficial use of the
property;
      (3)   To retain the property with intent to restore it to the owner only
if the owner purchases or leases it back, or pays a reward or other
compensation for its return; or
      (4)   To sell, give, pledge or otherwise transfer any interest in the
property or subject it to the claim of a person other than the owner.
   PROPERTY. Anything of value, including real estate, money, commercial
instruments, admission or transportation tickets, written instruments
representing or embodying rights concerning anything of value, labor or
services, or otherwise of value to the owner; things growing on, affixed to or
found on land, or part of or affixed to any building; electricity, gas and
water; birds, animals and fish, which ordinarily are kept in a state of
confinement; food and drink; samples, cultures, micro-organisms, specimens,
records, recordings, documents, blueprints, drawings, maps and whole or partial
copies, descriptions, photographs, computer programs or data, prototypes or
models thereof; or any other articles, materials, devices, substances and whole
or partial copies, descriptions, photographs, prototypes or models thereof
which constitute, represent, evidence, reflect or record a secret scientific,
technical, merchandising, production or management information, design,
process, procedure, formula, invention or improvement.
   STOLEN PROPERTY. Property over which control has been obtained by theft.
   THREAT. A menace, however communicated, to:
      (1)   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person
or on property;
      (2)   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint;
      (3)   Commit any criminal offense;
      (4)   Accuse any person of a criminal offense;
      (5)   Expose any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule;
      (6)   Harm the credit or business repute of any person;
      (7)   Reveal any information sought to be concealed by the person
threatened;
      (8)   Take action as an official against anyone or anything, or withhold
official action, or cause such action or withholding;
      (9)   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott or other similar
collective action if the property is not demanded or received for the benefit
of the group which they purport to represent;
      (10)   Testify or provide information or withhold testimony or
information with respect to another’s legal claim or defense; or
      (11)   Inflict any other harm which would not benefit the offender.
   VALUE. Property consisting of any commercial instrument or any written
instrument representing or embodying rights concerning anything of value, labor
or services or otherwise of value to the owner shall be:
      (1)   The MARKET VALUE of such instrument if such instrument is
negotiable and has a market value; and
      (2)   ACTUAL VALUE of such instrument if such instrument is not
negotiable or is otherwise without a market value. For the purpose of
establishing such ACTUAL VALUE, the interest of any owner or owners entitled to
part or all of the property represented by such instrument, by reasons of such
instrument, may be shown, even if another “owner” may be named in the
complaint, information or indictment.
(Prior Code, § 132.01)
Statutory reference:
   Deception, see 720 ILCS 5/15-4
   Obtain, see 720 ILCS 5/15-7
   Obtain or exert control over property, see 720 ILCS 5/15-8
   Owner, see 720 ILCS 5/15-2
   Permanently deprive, see 720 ILCS 5/15-3
   Property, see 720 ILCS 5/15-1
   Stolen property, see 720 ILCS 5/15-6
   Threat, see 720 ILCS 5/15-5
   Value, see 720 ILCS 5/15-9
§ 132.002 JACKROCKS.
   (A)   A person commits a jackrocks violation when they knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, gives away, manufactures, purchases or possesses a jackrock;
or
      (2)   Places, tosses or throws a jackrock on public or private property.
   (B)   As used in this section, JACKROCK means a caltrop or other object
manufactured with one or more rounded or sharpened points, which, when placed
or thrown, present at least one point at such an angle that it is peculiar to
and designed for use in puncturing or damaging vehicle tires. It does not
include a device designed to puncture or damage the tires of a vehicle driven
over it in a particular direction, if a conspicuous and clearly visible warning
is posted at the device’s location, alerting persons to its presence.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the possession, transfer or use of
jackrocks by any law enforcement officer in the course of their official
duties.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1.4(a)—(c)) Penalty, see §
132.999
**** THEFT GENERALLY ****
§ 132.015 THEFT.
   (A)   A person commits theft when they knowingly:
      (1)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
      (2)   Obtains, by deception, control over property of the owner;
      (3)   Obtains, by threat, control over property of the owner;
      (4)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce them to
believe that the property was stolen; or
      (5)   Obtains or exerts control over property in the custody of any law
enforcement agency which is explicitly represented to them by any law
enforcement officer or any individual acting in behalf of a law enforcement
agency as being stolen, and:
         (a)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit
of the property;
         (b)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefits; or
         (c)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   (B)   (1)   Theft of property, not from the person and not exceeding $500 in
value, is a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Theft of property not from the person and not exceeding $500 in
value, if committed in a school or place of worship or if the theft was of
governmental property, is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   A person who has been convicted of theft of property not from the
person and not exceeding $300 in value, who has been previously convicted of
any type of theft; robbery; armed robbery; burglary; residential burglary;
possession of burglary tools; home invasion; forgery; a violation of 625 ILCS
5/4-103, 5/4-103.1, 5/4-103.2 or 5/4-103.3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
relating to the possession of a stolen or converted motor vehicle; or a
violation of the former Illinois Credit Card and Debit Card Act, or those
similar provisions being now codified at 720 ILCS 5/17-31 through 5/17-49, is
guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   A person convicted of any of the following is guilty of a felony
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law:
         (a)   Theft of property from the person or exceeding $500 in value;
and
         (b)   Theft by deception, as described by division (A)(2) above, in
which the offender obtained money or property valued at $5,000 or more from a
victim 60 years of age or older or a person with a disability.
(Prior Code, § 132.05) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-1
   Theft of property from the person, or property over $300, or theft committed
in a school or place of worship, theft by lessee; permissive inference, see 720
ILCS 5/16-1
§ 132.016 THEFT OF LOST OR MISLAID PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person commits theft of lost or mislaid property when they obtain
control over the property and:
      (1)   Knows or learns the identity of the owner or knows, or is aware of,
or learns of a reasonable method of identifying the owner;
      (2)   Fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to the
owner; and
      (3)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property.
   (B)   Theft of lost or mislaid property where:
      (1)   The value does not exceed $500 is a Class B misdemeanor;
      (2)   The value exceeds $500 but does not exceed $10,000 is a Class A
misdemeanor; and
      (3)   The value exceeds $10,000 is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(Prior Code, § 132.07) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-2
§ 132.017 THEFT OF LABOR OR SERVICES OR USE OF PROPERTY.
   A person commits theft when they knowingly obtain the temporary use of
property, labor or services of another which are available only for hire, by
means of threat or deception, or knowing that such use is without the consent
of the person providing the property, labor or services. For the purposes of
this section, library material is available for hire
(Prior Code, § 132.08) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-3
§ 132.018 THEFT FROM COIN-OPERATED MACHINES.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term COIN-OPERATED MACHINE shall include
any automatic vending machine or any part thereof, parking meter, coin
telephone, coin laundry machine, coin dry cleaning machine, amusement machine,
music machine, vending machine dispensing goods or services or a money changer.
   (B)   A person commits theft from a coin-operated machine when they
knowingly and without authority and with intent to commit a theft from the
machine opens, breaks into, tampers with or damages a coin-operated machine.
(Prior Code, § 132.10) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-5
§ 132.019 THEFT-RELATED DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits unlawful possession of a key or device for a
coin-operated machine when they possess a key, drawing, print, mold of a key,
device or substance designed to open, break into, tamper with or damage a coin-
operated machine, with intent to commit a theft from the machine.
      (2)   A person commits unlawful use of a key or device for a coin-
operated machine when they, with the intent to commit a theft from a coin-
operated machine, use a key, drawing, print, mold of a key, device or substance
and causes damage or loss to the coin-operated machine of more than $300.
   (B)   (1)   A person commits unlawful use of a theft detection shielding
device when they knowingly manufacture, sell, offer for sale or distribute any
theft detection shielding device.
      (2)   A person commits unlawful possession of a theft detection shielding
device when they knowingly possess a theft detection shielding device with the
intent to commit theft or retail theft.
      (3)   A person commits unlawful possession of a theft detection device
remover when they knowingly possess a theft detection device remover with the
intent to use such tool to remove any theft detection device from any
merchandise without the permission of the merchant or person owning or holding
the merchandise.
   (C)   A person commits use of a scanning device or reencoder to defraud when
the person knowingly uses:
      (1)   A scanning device to access, read, obtain, memorize or store,
temporarily or permanently, information encoded on the magnetic strip or stripe
of a payment card without the permission of the authorized user of the payment
card and with the intent to defraud the authorized user, the issuer of the
authorized user’s payment card or a merchant; or
      (2)   A reencoder to place information encoded on the magnetic strip or
stripe of a payment card onto the magnetic strip or stripe of a different card
without the permission of the authorized user of the card from which the
information is being reencoded and with the intent to defraud the authorized
user, the issuer of the authorized user’s payment card or a merchant.
   (D)   The owner of a coin-operated machine may maintain a civil cause of
action against a person engaged in the activities covered in divisions (A)(1)
and (A)(2) above and may recover treble actual damages, reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs.
   (E)   As used in this section, SUBSTANCE means a corrosive or acidic liquid
or solid but does not include items purchased through a coin-operated machine
at the location or acquired as condiments at the location of the coin-operated
machine.
   (F)   For the purposes of this section, THEFT DETECTION SHIELDING DEVICE
means any laminated or coated bag or device peculiar to and marketed for
shielding and intended to shield merchandise from detection by an electronic or
magnetic theft alarm sensor.
(Prior Code, § 132.11) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/16-6
**** RETAIL THEFT ****
§ 132.030 RETAIL THEFT.
   (A)   Retail theft. A person commits retail theft when they knowingly:
      (1)   Take possession of, carry away, transfer or cause to be carried
away or transferred any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale
in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise;
      (2)   Alter, transfer or remove any label, price tag, marking, indicia of
value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise at less than the full
retail value with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full retail
value of such merchandise;
      (3)   Transfer any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise;
      (4)   Under-ring with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise;
      (5)   Remove a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart;
      (6)   Represent to a merchant that they are, or another, is the lawful
owner of property, knowing that such representation is false, and conveys or
attempts to convey that property to a merchant who is the owner of the property
in exchange for money, merchandise credit or other property of the merchant;
      (7)   Use or possess any theft detection shielding device or theft
detection device remover with the intention of using such device to deprive the
merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment without paying the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      (8)   Obtain or exert unauthorized control over property of the owner and
thereby intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the
property when a lessee of the personal property of another fails to return it
to the owner, or if the lessee fails to pay the full retail value of such
property to the lessor in satisfaction of any contractual provision requiring
such, within ten days after written demand from the owner for its return. A
notice, in writing, given after the expiration of the leasing agreement, by
registered mail, to the lessee at the address given by the lessee and shown on
the leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand.
   (B)   Theft by emergency exit. A person commits theft by emergency exit when
they commit a retail theft as defined in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(8) above
and to facilitate the theft they leave the retail mercantile establishment by
use of a designated emergency exit.
   (C)   Permissive inference.
      (1)   If any person:
         (a)   Conceals upon the person or among the person’s belongings
unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment; and
         (b)   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for
receiving payments for that merchandise in that retail mercantile
establishment, then the trier of fact may infer that the person possessed,
carried away or transferred such merchandise with the intention of retaining it
or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the possession,
use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail value of such
merchandise.
      (2)   To CONCEAL merchandise means that, although there may be some
notice of its presence, merchandise is not visible through ordinary
observation.
   (D)   Venue. Multiple thefts committed by the same person as part of a
continuing course of conduct in different jurisdictions that have been
aggregated in one jurisdiction may be prosecuted in any jurisdiction in which
one or more of the thefts occurred.
   (E)   Theft detection shielding device meaning. For the purposes of this
section, THEFT DETECTION SHIELDING DEVICE means any laminated or coated bag or
device designed and intended to shield merchandise from detection by an
electronic or magnetic theft alarm sensor.
   (F)   Sentence.
      (1)   A violation of any of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(6) and (A)(8)
above, the full retail value of which does not exceed $300 for property other
than motor fuel or $150 for motor fuel, is a Class A misdemeanor. A violation
of division (A)(7) above is a Class A misdemeanor for a first offense and a
Class 4 felony for a second or subsequent offense. Theft by emergency exit of
property, the full retail value of which does not exceed $300, is a Class 4
felony.
      (2)   A person who has been convicted of retail theft of property under
any of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(6) and (A)(8) above, the full retail value
of which does not exceed $300 for property other than motor fuel or $150 for
motor fuel, and who has been previously convicted of any type of theft,
robbery, armed robbery, burglary, residential burglary, possession of burglary
tools, home invasion, unlawful use of a credit card or forgery is guilty of a
Class 4 felony. A person who has been convicted of theft by emergency exit of
property, the full retail value of which does not exceed $300, and who has been
previously convicted of any type of theft, robbery, armed robbery, burglary,
residential burglary, possession of burglary tools, home invasion, unlawful use
of a credit card or forgery is guilty of a Class 3 felony.
      (3)   Any retail theft of property under any of divisions (A)(1) through
(a)(6) and (A)(8) above, the full retail value of which exceeds $300 for
property other than motor fuel or $150 for motor fuel in a single transaction,
or in separate transactions committed by the same person as part of a
continuing course of conduct from one or more mercantile establishments over a
period of one year, is a Class 3 felony. Theft by emergency exit of property,
the full retail value of which exceeds $300 in a single transaction, or in
separate transactions committed by the same person as part of a continuing
course of conduct from one or more mercantile establishments over a period of
one year, is a Class 2 felony. When a charge of retail theft of property or
theft by emergency exit of property, the full value of which exceeds $300, is
brought, the value of the property involved is an element of the offense to be
resolved by the trier of fact as either exceeding or not exceeding $300.
Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.031 DETENTION OF SUSPECTS BY MERCHANTS.
   (A)   Any merchant who has reasonable grounds to believe that a person has
committed retail theft may detain that person, on or off the premises of a
retail mercantile establishment, in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable
length of time, for all or any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To request identification;
      (2)   To verify identification;
      (3)   To make reasonable inquiry as to whether the person has in their
possession unpurchased merchandise and to make reasonable investigation of the
ownership of the merchandise;
      (4)   To inform a peace officer of the detention of the person and
surrender that person to the custody of a peace officer; or
      (5)   In the case of a minor, to inform a peace officer, the parents,
guardian or other private person interested in the welfare of that minor of
this detention and to surrender custody of the minor to the person.
   (B)   A merchant may make a detention as permitted herein off the premises
of a retail mercantile establishment only if detention is pursuant to an
immediate pursuit of the person. A merchant shall be deemed to have reasonable
grounds to make a detention for the purposes of this section if the merchant
detains a person because such person has in their possession either a theft
detection shielding device or a theft detection device remover.
(Prior Code, § 132.18) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.032 CIVIL LIABILITY FOR RETAIL THEFT; PARENTAL LIABILITY FOR WILLFUL OR
MALICIOUS ACTS OF A MINOR.
   (A)   A person who commits the offense of retail theft as defined in §
132.030(A)(1) through (A)(3), shall be civilly liable to the merchant of the
merchandise in an amount consisting of:
      (1)   Actual damages equal to the full retail value of the merchandise as
defined herein; plus
      (2)   An amount not less than $100 nor more than $1,000; plus
      (3)   Attorney’s fees and court costs.
   (B)   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides
with such parent or legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the wilful
or malicious acts of such minor which cause injury to a person or property,
including damages caused by a minor who has been adjudicated a delinquent for
violating § 21-1.3 of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012.
Reasonable attorneys’ fees may be awarded to any plaintiff in any action under
this Act. If the plaintiff is a governmental unit, reasonable attorneys’ fees
may be awarded up to $15,000.
   (C)   A conviction or a plea of guilty to an offense is not a prerequisite
to the bringing of a civil suit hereunder.
   (D)   Judgments arising under this section may be assigned.
Penalty, see §
132.999
**** DAMAGE AND TRESPASS TO PROPERTY ****
§ 132.045 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person commits criminal damage to property when they:
      (1)   Knowingly damage any property of another;
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damage property of
another;
      (3)   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another;
      (4)   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without their
consent;
      (5)   Knowingly deposit, on the land or in the building of another, any
stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby intends to interfere
with the use by another of the land or building;
      (6)   Knowingly damage any property, other than as described in division
(A)(2) above, with intent to defraud an insurer;
      (7)   Knowingly shoot a firearm at any portion of a railroad train;
      (8)   Knowingly, without proper authorization, cut, injure, damage,
deface, destroy or tamper with any fire hydrant or any public or private
firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to firefighting
equipment; or
      (9)   Intentionally, without proper authorization, open any fire hydrant.
   (B)   When the charge of criminal damage to property exceeding a specified
value is brought, the extent of the damage is an element of the offense to be
resolved by the trier of fact as either exceeding or not exceeding the
specified value.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of divisions (A)(1), (A)
(3) or (A)(5) above that the owner of the property or land damaged consented to
the damage.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1(a)—(c)) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional prohibitions; felonies, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1
   Criminal damage to state-supported property, see 720 ILCS 5/21-1.01
§ 132.046 CRIMINAL DEFACEMENT.
   A person commits criminal defacement of property when the person knowingly
damages the property of another without their consent by defacing, deforming or
otherwise damaging the property by the use of paint or any other similar
substance, or by the use of a writing instrument, etching tool or any other
similar device.
(Prior Code, § 132.251) (Ord. 06-0394, passed 4-5-2006) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.047 CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO VEHICLES.
   A person commits criminal trespass to vehicles when they knowingly and
without authority enter any part of or operates any vehicle, aircraft,
watercraft or snowmobile.
(Prior Code, § 132.27) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21-2
§ 132.048 CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits criminal trespass to real property when they:
         (a)   Knowingly and without lawful authority enter or remain within or
on a building;
         (b)   Enter upon the land of another, after receiving, prior to the
entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry is forbidden;
         (c)   Remain upon the land of another, after receiving notice from the
owner or occupant to depart;
         (d)   Present false documents or falsely represents their identity
orally to the owner or occupant of a building or land in order to obtain
permission from the owner or occupant to enter or remain in the building or on
the land;
         (e)   Intentionally remove a notice posted on residential real estate
as required by § 15-1505.8(l) of the Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/15-
1505.8(l)) before the date and time set forth in the notice; or
         (f)   Enter a field used or capable of being used for growing crops,
an enclosed area containing livestock, an agricultural building containing
livestock or an orchard in or on a motor vehicle (including an off-road
vehicle, motorcycle, moped or any other powered two-wheel vehicle) after
receiving, prior to the entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry
is forbidden or remains upon or in the area after receiving notice from the
owner or occupant to depart.
      (2)   For purposes of division (A)(1)(a) above, this section shall not
apply to being in a building which is open to the public while the building is
open to the public during its normal hours of operation; nor shall this section
apply to a person who enters a public building under the reasonable belief that
the building is still open to the public.
   (B)   (1)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within
the meaning of division (A) if they have been notified personally, either
orally or in writing including a valid court order as defined by § 112A-3(b)(7)
of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963 (725 ILCS 5/112A-3(b)(7)) granting
remedy of § 112A-14(b)(2) of that Code (725 ILCS 5/112A-14(b)(2)), or if a
printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted
or exhibited at the main entrance to the land or the forbidden part thereof.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to the provisions of division (B)(3) below, as an
alternative to the posting of real property as set forth in division (B)(1)
above, the owner or lessee of any real property may post the property by
placing identifying purple marks on trees or posts around the area to be
posted. Each purple mark shall be:
            1.   A vertical line of at least eight inches in length and the
bottom of the mark shall be no less than three feet nor more than five feet
high. Such marks shall be placed no more than 100 feet apart and shall be
readily visible to any person approaching the property; or
            2.   a.   A post capped or otherwise marked on at least its top two
inches. The bottom of the cap or mark shall be not less than three feet but not
more than five feet six inches high.
               b.   Posts so marked shall be placed not more than 36 feet apart
and shall be readily visible to any person approaching the property. Prior to
applying a cap or mark which is visible from both sides of a fence shared by
different property owners or lessees, all such owners or lessees shall concur
in the decision to post their own property.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (B)(2) shall be construed to authorize
the owner or lessee of any real property to place any purple marks on any tree
or post or to install any post or fence if doing so would violate any
applicable law, rule, ordinance, order, covenant, bylaw, declaration,
regulation, restriction, contract or instrument.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of their agent
having apparent authority to hire workers on this land and assign them living
quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone living
on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other agreement or
arrangement with the owner or their agent, nor to anyone invited by the migrant
worker or other person so living on the land to visit them at the place they
are so living upon the land.
   (D)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this section if they
beautify unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial properties located
within the village. For the purpose of this division (D):
      (1)   BEAUTIFIES means to landscape, clean up litter or to repair
dilapidated conditions on or to board up windows and doors.
      (2)   UNOCCUPIED AND ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY means
any real estate:
         (a)   In which the taxes have not been paid for a period of at least
two years; and
         (b)   Which has been left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of at
least one year.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages
to the owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property
which that person beautifies pursuant to division (D) above.
      (2)   (a)   A mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be exempt from
prosecution for criminal trespass for entering, securing or maintaining an
abandoned residential property.
         (b)   No mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be liable to the
mortgagor or other owner of an abandoned residential property in any civil
action for negligence or civil trespass in connection with entering, securing
or maintaining the abandoned residential property.
         (c)   For the purpose of this division (E)(2) only, ABANDONED
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY means mortgaged real estate that the mortgagee or agent of
the mortgagee determines in good faith meets the definition of abandoned
residential property set forth in § 15-1200.5 of Article XV of the Code of
Civil Procedure (see 735 ILCS 5/15-1200.5).
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a person from entering a building or
upon the land of another for emergency purposes. For purposes of this division
(F), EMERGENCY means a condition or circumstance in which an individual is or
is reasonably believed by the person to be in imminent danger of serious bodily
harm or in which property is or is reasonably believed to be in imminent danger
of damage or destruction.
   (G)   Division (A)(4) above does not apply to a peace officer or other
official of a unit of government who enters a building or land in the
performance of their official duties.
   (H)   (1)   A person may be liable in any civil action for money damages to
the owner of the land they entered upon with a motor vehicle as prohibited
under division (A)(6) above. A person may also be liable to the owner for court
costs and reasonable attorney’s fees. The measure of damages shall be:
         (a)   The actual damages, but not less than $250, if the vehicle is
operated in a nature preserve or registered area as defined in §§ 3.11 and 3.14
of the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act (525 ILCS 30/3.11 and 3.14);
         (b)   Twice the actual damages if the owner has previously notified
the person to cease trespassing; or
         (c)   In any other case, the actual damages, but not less than $50. If
the person operating the vehicle is under the age of 16, the owner of the
vehicle and the parent or legal guardian of the minor are jointly and severally
liable.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (H):
         (a)   LAND includes, but is not limited to, land used for crop land,
fallow land, orchard, pasture, feed lot, timber land, prairie land, mine spoil
nature preserves and registered areas. LAND does not include driveways or
private roadways upon which the owner allows the public to drive.
         (b)   OWNER means the person who has the right to possession of the
land, including the owner, operator or tenant.
         (c)   VEHICLE has the same meaning as provided under § 1-217 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-217).
   (I)   This section does not apply to the following persons while serving
process:
      (1)   A person authorized to serve process under § 2-202 of the Code of
Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/2-202); or
      (2)   A special process server appointed by the Circuit Court.
(720 ILCS 5/21-3(a)—(g), (i), (j))
Penalty, see §
132.999
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
Statutory reference:
   Criminal trespass to state-supported land, see 720 ILCS 5/21-5
§ 132.049 CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO RESIDENCE.
   A person commits the offense of criminal trespass to a residence when,
without authority, they knowingly enter or remain within any residence,
including a house trailer. For purposes of this section, in the case of a
multi-unit residential building or complex, RESIDENCE shall only include the
portion of the building or complex which is the actual dwelling place of any
person and shall not include such places as common recreational areas or
lobbies.
(Prior Code, § 132.29) (Ord. 2021-89, passed 8-2-1989) Penalty, see §
132.999
**** DECEPTION ****
§ 132.060 DECEPTION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Deceptive practices. A person commits a deceptive practice when, with
intent to defraud, the person does any of the following:
      (1)   They knowingly cause another, by deception or threat, to execute a
document disposing of property or a document by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred;
      (2)   Being an officer, manager or other person participating in the
direction of a financial institution, they knowingly receive or permit the
receipt of a deposit or other investment, knowing that the institution is
insolvent; or
      (3)   They knowingly make a false or deceptive statement addressed to the
public for the purpose of promoting the sale of property or services.
   (B)   Bad checks. A person commits a deceptive practice when any of the
following apply.
      (1)   With intent to obtain control over property or to pay for property,
labor or services of another or in satisfaction of an obligation for payment of
tax under 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq. or any other tax due to the state, they issue
or deliver a check or other order upon a real or fictitious depository for the
payment of money, knowing that it will not be paid by the depository. The trier
of fact may infer that the defendant knows that the check or other order will
not be paid by the depository and that the defendant has acted with intent to
defraud when the defendant fails to have sufficient funds or credit with the
depository when the check or other order is issued or delivered, or when the
check or other order is presented for payment and dishonored on each of two
occasions at least seven days apart. In this division (B)(1), PROPERTY includes
rental property (real or personal).
      (2)   They issue or deliver a check or other order upon a real or
fictitious depository in an amount exceeding $150 in payment of an amount owed
on any credit transaction for property, labor or services, or in payment of the
entire amount owed on any credit transaction for property, labor or services,
knowing that it will not be paid by the depository, and thereafter fails to
provide funds or credit with the depository in the face amount of the check or
order within seven days of receiving actual notice from the depository or payee
of the dishonor of the check or order.
(Prior Code, § 132.31) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(E)
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(A), (B)
   Sentence provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(D)
§ 132.061 FALSE STATEMENTS TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, FALSE STATEMENT means any false
statement representing identity, address or employment, or the identity,
address or employment of any person, firm or corporation.
   (B)   A person commits false statement bank fraud if they, with intent to
defraud, make or cause to be made any false statement in writing in order
obtain an account with a bank or other financial institution, or to obtain
credit from a bank or other financial institution, or to obtain services from a
currency exchange, knowing such writing to be false, and with the intent that
it be relied upon.
(Prior Code, § 132.32) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(E)
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(C)(1)
   Sentence provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(D)
§ 132.062 WRONGFUL POSSESSION OF CHECKS.
   A person commits possession of stolen or fraudulently obtained checks when
they possess, with the intent to defraud, any check or order for the payment of
money, upon a real or fictitious account, without the consent of the account
holder, or the issuing financial institution, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any
person who, within any 12-month period, violates this section with respect to
three or more checks or orders for the payment of money at the same time or
consecutively, each the property of a different account holder or financial
institution, is guilty of a felony, and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(Prior Code, § 132.33) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(E)
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(C)(2)
   Sentence provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(D)
§ 132.063 POSSESSION OF IMPLEMENTS OF CHECK FRAUD.
   A person commits possession of implements of check fraud when they possess,
with the intent to defraud, and without the authority of the account holder or
financial institution any check imprinter, signature imprinter or “certified”
stamp.
(Prior Code, § 132.34) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(E)
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(C)(3)
   Sentence provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/17-1(D)
§ 132.064 IMPERSONATING MEMBER OR REPRESENTATIVE OF POLICE OR OTHER
ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   False personation; solicitation.
      (1)   A person commits a false personation when they knowingly and
falsely represent themself to be a member or representative of any veterans’ or
public safety personnel organization or a representative of any charitable
organization, or when they knowingly exhibit or use in any manner any decal,
badge or insignia of any charitable, public safety personnel or veterans’
organization when not authorized to do so by the charitable, public safety
personnel or veterans’ organization. PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL ORGANIZATION has
the meaning ascribed to that term in § 1 of the Solicitation for Charity Act,
225 ILCS 460/1.
      (2)   (a)   A person commits a false personation when they knowingly and
falsely represents themself to be a veteran in seeking employment or public
office. In this division (A)(2)(a), VETERAN means a person who has served in
the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United States.
         (b)   1.   A person commits a false personation when they knowingly
and falsely represents themself to be:
               a.   An active-duty member of the Armed Services or Reserve
Forces of the United States or the National Guard or a veteran of the Armed
Services or Reserve Forces of the United States or the National Guard; and
               b.   Obtain money, property or another tangible benefit through
that false representation.
            2.   In this division (A)(2)(b), MEMBER OF THE ARMED SERVICES OR
RESERVE FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES means a member of the United States Navy,
Army, Air Force, Marine Corps or Coast Guard; and VETERAN means a person who
has served in the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United States or the
National Guard.
         (c)   A person commits a false personation when they knowingly and
falsely represents themself to be:
            1.   Another actual person and does an act in such assumed
character with intent to intimidate, threaten, injure, defraud or to obtain a
benefit from another; or
            2.   A representative of an actual person or organization and does
an act in such false capacity with intent to obtain a benefit or to injure or
defraud another.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use the words “Police,” “Police
Department,” “patrol officer,” “sergeant,” “lieutenant,” “peace officer,”
“Sheriff’s police,” “Sheriff,” “officer,” “law enforcement,” “trooper,”
“deputy,” “deputy sheriff,” “State Police” or any other words to the same
effect in the title of any organization, magazine or other publication without
the express approval of the named public safety personnel organization’s
governing board or in combination with the name of any state, state agency,
public university or unit of local government without the express written
authorization of that state, state agency, public university or unit of local
government.
      (4)   No person may knowingly claim or represent that they are acting on
behalf of any public safety personnel organization when soliciting financial
contributions or selling or delivering or offering to sell or deliver any
merchandise, goods, services, memberships or advertisements unless the Chief of
the Police Department, Fire Department and the corporate or municipal authority
thereof, or the Sheriff has first entered into a written agreement with the
person or with an organization with which the person is affiliated and the
agreement permits the activity and specifies and states clearly and fully the
purpose for which the proceeds of the solicitation, contribution or sale will
be used.
      (5)   No person, when soliciting financial contributions or selling or
delivering or offering to sell or deliver any merchandise, goods, services,
memberships or advertisements, may claim or represent that they are
representing or acting on behalf of any nongovernmental organization by any
name which includes “officer,” “peace officer,” “police,” “law enforcement,”
“trooper,” “sheriff,” “deputy,” “deputy sheriff,” “state police” or any other
word or words which would reasonably be understood to imply that the
organization is composed of law enforcement personnel unless:
            1.   The person is actually representing or acting on behalf of the
nongovernmental organization;
            2.   The nongovernmental organization is controlled by and governed
by a membership of and represents a group or association of active duty peace
officers, retired peace officers or injured peace officers; and
            3.   Before commencing the solicitation or the sale or the offers
to sell any merchandise, goods, services, memberships or advertisements, a
written contract between the soliciting or selling person and the
nongovernmental organization, which specifies and states clearly and fully the
purposes for which the proceeds of the solicitation, contribution or sale will
be used, has been entered into.
      (6)   No person, when soliciting financial contributions or selling or
delivering or offering to sell or deliver any merchandise, goods, services,
memberships or advertisements, may knowingly claim or represent that they are
representing or acting on behalf of any nongovernmental organization by any
name which includes the terms “firefighter,” “paramedic” or any other word or
words which would reasonably be understood to imply that the organization is
composed of firefighter or paramedic personnel unless:
         (a)   The person is actually representing or acting on behalf of the
nongovernmental organization;
         (b)   The nongovernmental organization is controlled by and governed
by a membership of and represents a group or association of active duty,
retired or injured firefighters (for the purposes of this section, FIREFIGHTER
has the meaning ascribed to that term in § 2 of the Illinois Fire Protection
Training Act, 50 ILCS 740/1 et seq.) or active duty, retired or injured
emergency medical technicians - ambulance, emergency medical technicians -
intermediate, emergency medical technicians - paramedic, ambulance drivers or
other medical assistance or first aid personnel; and
         (c)   Before commencing the solicitation or the sale or delivery or
the offers to sell or deliver any merchandise, goods, services, memberships or
advertisements, the soliciting or selling person and the nongovernmental
organization have entered into a written contract that specifies and states
clearly and fully the purposes for which the proceeds of the solicitation,
contribution or sale will be used.
      (7)   No person may knowingly claim or represent that they are a pilot,
airline employee, airport employee or contractor at an airport in order to
obtain the uniform, identification card, license or other identification
paraphernalia of a pilot, airline employee, airport employee or contractor at
an airport.
      (8)   No person, firm, copartnership or corporation (except corporations
organized and doing business under the Pawnbroker Regulation Act of 2023, 205
ILCS 511/1-1 et seq.) shall knowingly use a name that contains in it the words
“Pawners’ Society.”
   (B)   False personation; public officials and employees.
      (1)   A person commits a false personation if they knowingly and falsely
represent themself to be any of the following:
         (a)   An attorney authorized to practice law for purposes of
compensation or consideration. This division (B)(1) does not apply to a person
who unintentionally fails to pay attorney registration fees established by
Supreme Court Rule;
         (b)   A public officer or a public employee or an official or employee
of the federal government;
         (c)   A public officer, a public employee or an official or employee
of the federal government, and the false representation is made in furtherance
of the commission of felony;
         (d)   A public officer or a public employee, and the false
representation is for the purpose of effectuating identity theft as defined in
720 ILCS 5/16-30;
         (e)   A peace officer;
         (f)   A peace officer while carrying a deadly weapon;
         (g)   A peace officer in attempting or committing a felony;
         (h)   A peace officer in attempting or committing a forcible felony;
         (i)   The parent, legal guardian or other relation of a minor child to
any public official, public employee or elementary or secondary school employee
or administrator;
         (j)   A firefighter;
         (k)   A firefighter while carrying a deadly weapon;
         (l)   A firefighter in attempting or committing a felony;
         (m)   An emergency management worker of any jurisdiction in this
state;
         (n)   An emergency management worker of any jurisdiction in this state
in attempting or committing a felony. For the purposes of this division (B),
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT WORKER has the meaning provided under 720 ILCS 5/2-6.6;
and
         (o)   The legal guardian, including any representative of a state or
public guardian, or a person with a disability appointed under Article XIa of
the Probate Act of 1975, being 755 ILCS 5/11a-1 et seq.
      (2)   The trier of fact may infer that a person falsely represents
themself to be a public officer or a public employee or an official or employee
of the federal government if the person:
         (a)   Wears or displays without authority any uniform, badge, insignia
or facsimile thereof by which a public officer or public employee or official
or employee of the federal government is lawfully distinguished; or
         (b)   Falsely expresses by word or action that they are a public
officer or public employee or official or employee of the federal government
and is acting with approval or authority of a public agency or department.
   (C)   Fraudulent advertisement of a corporate name.
      (1)   A company, association or individual commits fraudulent
advertisement of a corporate name if they or it, not being incorporated, put
forth a sign or advertisement and assumes, for the purpose of soliciting
business, a corporate name.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this division (C) prohibits a corporation,
company, association or person from using a divisional designation or trade
name in conjunction with its corporate name or assumed name under 805 ILCS 5/
4.05 of the Business Corporation Act of 1983 or, if it is a member of a
partnership or joint venture, from doing partnership or joint venture business
under the partnership or joint venture name. The name under which the joint
venture or partnership does business may differ from the names of the members.
Business may not be conducted or transacted under that joint venture or
partnership name, however, unless all provisions of the Assumed Business Name
Act, 805 ILCS 405/0.01 et seq., have been complied with. Nothing in this
division (C) permits a foreign corporation to do business in this state without
complying with all state laws regulating the doing of business by foreign
corporations. No foreign corporation may conduct or transact business in this
state as a member of a partnership or joint venture that violates any state law
regulating or pertaining to the doing of business by foreign corporations in
the state.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (C) do not apply to limited
partnerships formed under the Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (former
805 ILCS 210/100 et seq.) or under the Uniform Limited Partnership Act (805
ILCS 215/0.01 et seq., 2001).
   (D)   False law enforcement badges.
      (1)   A person commits false law enforcement badges if they knowingly
produces, sells or distributes a law enforcement badge without the express
written consent of the law enforcement agency represented on the badge or, in
case of a reorganized or defunct law enforcement agency, its successor law
enforcement agency.
      (2)   It is a defense to false law enforcement badges that the law
enforcement badge is used or is intended to be used exclusively:
         (a)   As a memento or in a collection or exhibit;
         (b)   For decorative purposes; or
         (c)   For a dramatic presentation, such as a theatrical, film or
television production.
   (E)   False medals.
      (1)   A person commits a false personation if they knowingly and falsely
represent themself to be a recipient of, or wear on their person, any of the
following medals if that medal was not awarded to that person by the United
States Government, irrespective of branch of service: the Congressional Medal
of Honor, the Distinguished Service Cross, the Navy Cross, the Air Force Cross,
the Silver Star, the Bronze Star or the Purple Heart.
      (2)   It is a defense to a prosecution under division (E)(1) above that
the medal is used, or is intended to be used, exclusively:
         (a)   For a dramatic presentation, such as a theatrical, film or
television production or a historical re-enactment; or
         (b)   For a costume worn, or intended to be worn, by a person under 18
years of age.
(Prior Code, § 132.36) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/17-2
**** OTHER PROPERTY OFFENSES ****
§ 132.075 DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION BY TAX RETURN PREPARERS.
   (A)   It is a misdemeanor for any person, including an individual, firm,
corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or any employee or agent
thereof, to disclose or to convey a list of names prepared on the basis of any
information obtained in the business of preparing federal or state income tax
returns, or assisting taxpayers in preparing those returns, including the
disclosure or conveyance of information between separate departments of the
same firm, corporation, association, partnership or joint venture, unless the
disclosure or conveyance is within any of the following:
      (1)   Consented to in writing by the taxpayer in a separate document;
      (2)   Expressly authorized by state or federal law;
      (3)   Necessary to the preparation of the return; and
      (4)   Pursuant to court order.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a person is engaged in the business
of preparing federal or state income tax returns or assisting taxpayers in
preparing those returns if they do either of the following:
      (1)   Advertises, or gives publicity to the effect that they prepare or
assists others in the preparation of federal income tax returns; or
      (2)   Prepares or assists others in the preparation of state or federal
income tax returns for compensation.
   (C)   Contacting a taxpayer to obtain their written consent to disclosure
does not constitute a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 132.40) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 815 ILCS 535/1, 2, 3
§ 132.076 INDUCEMENTS TO SELL OR PURCHASE REAL ESTATE BY REASON OF RACE OR
RELIGION; UNWANTED SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation knowingly:
   (A)   To solicit for sale, lease, listing or purchase any residential real
estate within the municipal limits, on the grounds of loss of value due to the
present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property involved of any
person or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin,
ancestry, creed, physical or mental disability or sex;
   (B)   To distribute or cause to be distributed written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of residential real estate in the
municipality to sell or lease their property because of any present or
prospective changes in the race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry,
creed, physical or mental disability or sex of residents in the vicinity of the
property involved;
   (C)   To intentionally create alarm among residents of any community, by
transmitting in any manner, including a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues, with a design to induce any owner of residential
real estate in the municipality to sell or lease their property because of any
present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property involved of any
person or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin,
ancestry, creed, physical or mental disability or sex; and/or
   (D)   To solicit any owner of residential property to sell or list such
residential property at any time after the person or corporation has notice
that the owner does not desire to sell the residential property. For the
purpose of this section, notice must be provided as follows.
      (1)   The notice may be given by the owner personally or by a third party
in the owner’s name, either in the form of an individual notice or a list,
provided it complies with this section.
      (2)   (a)   Such notice shall be explicit as to whether each owner on the
notice seeks to avoid both solicitation for listing and sale, or only for
listing, or only for sale, as well as the period of time for which any
avoidance is desired.
         (b)   The notice shall be dated and either of the following shall
apply:
            1.   Each owner shall have signed the notice; or
            2.   The person or entity preparing the notice shall provide an
accompanying affidavit to the effect that all the names on the notice are, in
fact, genuine as to the identity of the persons listed and that the persons
have requested not to be solicited as indicated.
      (3)   The individual notice, or notice in the form of a list with the
accompanying affidavit, shall be served personally or by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested.
(Prior Code, § 132.41) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 590/1, 2
   Revocation of broker’s or salesman’s license on conviction, see 720 ILCS
590/3
§ 132.077 CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT.
   A person commits the offense of criminal housing management when, having
personal management or control of residential real estate, whether as a legal
or equitable owner or as a managing agent or otherwise, they recklessly permit
the physical condition or facilities of the residential real estate to become
or remain in any condition which endangers the health or safety of a person.
(Prior Code, § 132.42) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988) Penalty, see §
132.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/12-5.1
§ 132.078 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw or otherwise place
upon the real or personal, public or private property of another, any sign,
symbol, marking, name, initial, word, diagram, sketch, picture or letter,
without the permission of the owner of the property. The aforementioned list is
not to be a limitation, but is merely illustrative of items known as graffiti.
   (B)   Exemption: public officials and utilities. The prohibitions of this
section shall not apply to government officials and employees, or employees or
officials representatives of any public or private utilities with respect to
the posting or labeling of tags, notices or other markings on buildings or
other property while in the course of their employment or in the performance of
their official duties.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of property which
is in the public view to place or give permission to place graffiti on said
property without first having obtained a properly issued sign permit.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess spray paint containers,
paint, ink, marking pens which contain a non-water soluble fluid, brushes,
applicator or other materials for marking, scratching or etching, with the
intent to use such material(s) to violate divisions (A) and (C) above.
   (E)   Graffiti, as hereinabove defined, is deemed to be and to constitute a
public nuisance, and it shall be the responsibility hereunder of the owner of
record, or the person in charge, possession or control of any building or
structure upon which graffiti is placed or affixed to cause such graffiti to be
removed or concealed upon the existence of such facts and circumstances as
would place a reasonable property owner on notice of the existence of such
graffiti, and the failure to so remove or conceal such graffiti shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. Graffiti, as hereinabove defined, is
deemed to be and to constitute a public nuisance. In the event that any such
graffiti is not so removed, the village, upon receiving notice thereof, may
proceed to cause the removal thereof in the manner hereinafter set forth. Upon
the initial receipt by the village of notice of the existence of graffiti on
any building or structure, the Department of Public Works or its agent or
contractor shall attempt to contact and obtain consent from the owner thereof
or the agent of such owner for the Department of Public Works or its agent or
contractor to enter upon such property to remove such graffiti, or the
immediate removal thereof by the owner. Such consent shall be in the form of a
release holding the village harmless from any claimed adverse or injurious
effects resulting from such removal activities. If such attempt to contact the
owner is not successful, or if such consent is not otherwise obtained, the
Department shall cause the posting of a notice in a prominent place upon the
building or structure where the graffiti is found.
      (1)   In the event that the graffiti in question is located on any
detached or attached single-family residence, such notice shall state that
graffiti has been found on such residence, that efforts were made to contact
the owner to obtain consent for graffiti removal but that such consent could
not be obtained and that unless the owner shall cause the removal of such
graffiti within three days from the date on which such notice was posted, the
village shall thereafter take such steps as are necessary to cause the removal
of such graffiti from the residence as a public nuisance.
      (2)   In the event that the graffiti in question is located on any
building or structure that is accessory to a detached or attached single-family
residence, such notice shall state that graffiti has been found on such
building or structure, and that unless the owner shall cause the removal of
such graffiti within 24 hours from the date on which such notice was posted,
the village shall thereafter take such steps as are necessary to cause the
removal of such graffiti from the residence as a public nuisance.
      (3)   In the event that the graffiti in question is found on any
principal building or structure other than any detached or attached single-
family residence, such notice shall state that graffiti has been found on such
building or structure, that efforts were made to contact the owner to obtain
consent for graffiti removal but that such consent could not be obtained and
that unless the owner shall cause the removal of such graffiti within 24 hours
from the date on which such notice was posted, the village shall thereafter
take such steps as are necessary to cause the removal of such graffiti from
such building or structure as a public nuisance.
      (4)   In the event that the graffiti in question is located on any
building or structure that is accessory to any principal building or structure
other than any detached or attached single-family residence, such notice shall
state that graffiti has been found on such building or structure, and that
unless the owner shall cause the removal of such graffiti within 24 hours from
the date on which such notice was posted, the village shall thereafter take
such steps as are necessary to cause the removal of such graffiti from such
building or structure as a public nuisance.
      (5)   Owners of any buildings or structures other than detached or
attached single-family residences or buildings or structures accessory thereto
upon which graffiti shall be found that fail to remove such graffiti after the
placement of the notice hereinabove specified shall thereafter be liable to the
village for the costs and expenses incurred in connection with such removal,
which costs and expenses shall also constitute a lien on the property upon
which the graffiti in question had been located; provided that the lien shall
only arise upon the preparation and filing by the village of a notice of lien
in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any removal by the village of any graffiti pursuant
to the provisions of this section, the owner of the property upon which such
graffiti was located shall remain subject to ordinance violation prosecutions
instituted by the village for the failure to remove such graffiti.
(Prior Code, § 132.43) (Ord. 2235-93, passed 8-18-1993; Ord. 2251-93, passed
12-21-1993; Ord. 2557-98, passed 5-7-1998; Ord. 0042-03, passed 6-18-2003; Ord.
06-0460, passed 10-18-2006) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A jackrocks violation is a Class A misdemeanor.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1.4(d))
   (C)   Violation of §
132.017 is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 132.08)
   (D)   Violation of §
132.018 is a misdemeanor. A person who has been convicted of theft from a coin-
operated machine and who has been previously convicted of any type of theft,
robbery, armed robbery, burglary, residential burglary, possession of burglary
tools or home invasion is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under
state law.
(Prior Code, § 132.10)
   (E)   A violation of §
132.019(A)(1), (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) is a Class A misdemeanor. A second or
subsequent violation of §
132.019(B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. A violation of §
132.019(A)(2), (C)(1) or (C)(2) is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. A second or subsequent violation of §
132.019(C)(1) or (C)(2) is a Class 3 felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(Prior Code, § 132.11)
   (F)   In addition to any other sentence, fine or penalty provided for in
this chapter or in any other applicable provision of this code, any person
convicted of or who pleads guilty to a charge of violating §
132.046 where the cost to repair or remediate the property damage exceeds the
sum of $500, the property in question is a school building, the property in
question is a place of worship or the conviction or plea of guilty is entered
by the court in connection with a second or subsequent offense by the same
person shall, in addition to any sentence, penalty or fine otherwise provided
for or permitted by this chapter or the applicable provisions of this code, be
subject to the imposition of a mandatory minimum fine of $500, the entry of a
court order requiring the payment of the amount of the cost incurred by the
property owner to repair or remediate the property damage in question, the
entry of a court order requiring such person to perform not less than 30 hours
of community service work, which shall include the repair, remediation or
cleanup of the criminal defacement at issue or other similar damage to property
located within the village.
(Prior Code, § 132.251)
   (G)   Criminal trespass to vehicles under §
132.047 is a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 132.27)
   (H)   A violation of §
132.048(A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(1)(d) are a Class B misdemeanor.
A violation of §
132.048(A)(1)(f) is a Class A misdemeanor.
(720 ILCS 5/21-3(h))
   (I)   (1)   A violation of §
132.064(A)(8) is a petty offense subject to a fine of not less than $5 nor more
than $100, and the person, firm, copartnership or corporation commits an
additional petty offense for each day they or it continues to commit the
violation. A violation of §
132.064(D)(1) is a petty offense, and the company, association or person
commits an additional petty offense for each day they or it continues to commit
the violation. A violation of §
132.064(A)(2)(b) above or division (F) is a petty offense for which the
offender shall be fined at least $100 and not more than $200.
      (2)   A violation of §
132.064(A)(1), (A)(3) or (B)(1)(o) is a Class C misdemeanor.
      (3)   A violation of §
132.064(A)(2), (A)(7), (B)(2) or (B)(9) or division (E) is a Class A
misdemeanor. A second or subsequent violation of §
132.064(E) is a Class 3 felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   A violation of §
132.064(A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(c), (B)(1)(d), (B)(1)(e), (B)
(1)(j) or (B)(1)(m) is a Class 4 felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (5)   A violation of §
132.064(B)(1)(f), (B)(1)(k) or (B)(1)(n) is a Class 3 felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (6)   A violation of §
132.064(B)(1)(g) or (B)(1)(l) is a Class 2 felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (7)   A violation of §
132.064(B)(1)(h) is a Class 1 felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (J)   A violation of §
132.064(A)(1) through (A)(7) or division (E) may be accomplished in person or
by any means of communication, including, but not limited to, the use of an
Internet website or any form of electronic communication.
(Prior Code, § 132.36)
   (K)   Violation of §
132.076 is a misdemeanor; provided that the person has not been convicted of
any prior offense under the terms of this section. Any person who violates any
provision of this section after having been previously convicted of an offense
under this section commits a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(Prior Code, § 132.41)
   (L)   Criminal housing management under §
132.077 is a misdemeanor. A subsequent conviction is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(Prior Code, § 132.42)
   (F)   Any person that violates the provisions of §
132.078 shall, in addition to any other penalty, lien, cost or charge imposed
thereby, be subject to a fine of not less than $75 nor more than $750.
(Prior Code, § 132.43) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988; Ord. 2235-93, passed 8-
18-1993; Ord. 2251-93, passed 12-21-1993; Ord. 2557-98, passed 5-7-1998; Ord.
0042-03, passed 6-18-2003; Ord. 06-0394, passed 4-5-2006; Ord. 06-0460, passed
10-18-2006)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Public indecency
   
133.02   Public urination or defecation
Prostitution
   
133.15   Prostitution
   
133.16   Soliciting a prostitute
Obscenity
   
133.30   Obscenity
   
133.31   Harmful material
   
133.32   Tie-in sales of obscene publications to distributors
 
   
133.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 133.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PLACE means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
   (B)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct as defined in 720
ILCS 5/11-0.1;
      (2)   An appearance in a state of nudity. As used herein, the term NUDITY
shall mean any exposure or exhibition of the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks,
anus, anal cleft or that portion of the female breast below the areola, any
exposure or exhibition of the foregoing without a fully opaque covering thereof
or the use or employment of any device or covering intended to give the
appearance of or simulate any of the foregoing; or
      (3)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
   (C)   Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   (D)   Public indecency is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 133.01) (Ord. 2526-97, passed 12-17-1997) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 PUBLIC URINATION OR DEFECATION.
   (A)   No person shall defecate on or within any street, alley, sidewalk,
parking lot, park, playground, school yard, cemetery, floor or other part of
any building or structure or any public place, except in such place that has
been designated a restroom and into toilet fixtures located within such
restroom intended and designed for the performance of such function.
   (B)   No person shall urinate on or within any street, alley, sidewalk,
parking lot, park, playground, school yard, cemetery, floor or other part of
any building or structure, or any public place, except in such place that has
been designated a restroom and into toilet fixtures located within such
restroom intended and designed for the performance of such function.
   (C)   No person shall urinate or defecate in any public place in such a
manner as to expose their genitals, public hair, buttocks, anus or anal cleft.
   (D)   PUBLIC PLACE, as used in this section, shall mean any place where the
conduct involved is actually viewed by someone who is not related to the person
nor a member of their household, any place where the conduct involved is
reasonably likely to be viewed by others, any building or property owned by any
unit of government or any building, property or premises open to or held out as
open to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 133.02) (Ord. 10-0849, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
133.99
**** PROSTITUTION ****
§ 133.15 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly performs, offers or agrees to perform any act
of sexual penetration as defined in § 11-0.1 of the Illinois Criminal Code of
2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. for anything of value, or any touching or fondling
of the sex organs of one person by another person, for anything of value, for
the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification commits an act of prostitution.
   (B)   A violation of this section is a Class A misdemeanor.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
accused engaged in or performed prostitution as a result of being a victim of
involuntary servitude or trafficking in persons as defined in § 10-9 of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is determined, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of this section is a person under the age of 18, that person
shall be immune from prosecution for a prostitution offense under this section,
and shall be subject to the temporary protective custody provisions of §§ 2-
5 and 2-6 of the Juvenile Court Act of 1987. Pursuant to the provisions of § 2-
6 of the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, a law enforcement officer who takes a
person under 18 years of age into custody under this section shall immediately
report an allegation of a violation of § 10-9 of this Code to the State
Department of Children and Family Services State Central Register, which shall
commence an initial investigation into child abuse or child neglect within 24
hours pursuant to § 7.4 of the Abused and Neglected Child Reporting Act.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.16 SOLICITING A PROSTITUTE.
   (A)   Any person who offers a person who is not their spouse money,
property, token, object or anything of value for that person or any other
person not their spouse to perform any act of sexual penetration as defined in
720 ILCS 5/11-0.1, or any touching or fondling of the sex organs of one person
by another person for the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification is guilty
of soliciting a prostitute.
   (B)   A person cannot be convicted under this section if the practice of
prostitution underlying the offense consists exclusively of the accused’s own
acts of prostitution under §
133.15.
(Prior Code, § 133.11) (Ord. 17-1400, passed 9-6-2017)
**** OBSCENITY ****
§ 133.30 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
they:
      (1)   Sell, deliver or provide or offer or agree to sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Present or direct an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publish, exhibit or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Perform an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of their body for gain;
      (5)   Create, buy, procure or possess obscene matter or material with
intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal laws or
regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertise or otherwise promote the sale of material represented or
held out by them to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, the evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of those people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in the
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material; and
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   (D)   Permissive inference. The trier of fact may infer an intent to
disseminate from the creation, purchase, procurement or possession of a mold,
engraved plate or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for
reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three copies of
obscene material.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age; or
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
   (F)   Forfeiture of property. A person who has been convicted previously of
the offense of obscenity and who is convicted of a second or subsequent offense
of obscenity is subject to the property forfeiture provisions set forth in
Article 124B of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963, being 725 ILCS 5/124B-
5 et seq.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20(a)—(c), (e)—(g)) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.31 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      HARMFUL TO MINORS. The quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic
abuse when, taken as a whole, it does the following:
         (a)   Predominately appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors;
         (b)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community in the state as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for
minors; and
         (c)   Lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value
for minors.
      KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents.
      MATERIAL.
         (a)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, film, video game,
computer game, video or similar visual depiction, including any such
representation or image which is stored electronically; or
         (b)   Any book, magazine, printed matter however reproduced or
recorded audio of any sort.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion below the top of
the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
      SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad
in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one clothed
for sexual gratification or stimulation.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse or physical
contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or,
if the person is a female, breast.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of distributing harmful material to a minor when
they do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly sell, lend, distribute, exhibit to, depict to or give
away to a minor any of the following, knowing that the minor is under the age
of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the person’s true
age:
         (a)   Any material which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or
sadomasochistic abuse, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal
descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or
sadomasochistic abuse and which taken as a whole is harmful to minors;
         (b)   A motion picture, show or other presentation which depicts
nudity, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse and is harmful to minors; or
         (c)   An admission ticket or pass to premises where there is exhibited
or to be exhibited such a motion picture, show or other presentation.
      (2)   Admits a minor to premises where there is exhibited or to be
exhibited such a motion picture, show or other presentation, knowing that the
minor is a person under the age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the person’s true age.
   (C)   In any prosecution arising under this section, it is an affirmative
defense:
      (1)   The minor as to whom the offense is alleged to have been committed
exhibited to the accused a draft card, driver’s license, birth certificate or
other official or apparently official document purporting to establish that the
minor was 18 years of age or older, which was relied upon by the accused;
      (2)   The defendant was in a parental or guardianship relationship with
the minor or that the minor was accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
      (3)   The defendant was a bona fide school, museum or public library, or
was a person acting in the course of their employment as an employee or
official of such organization or retail outlet affiliated with and serving the
educational purpose of the organization;
      (4)   The act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes; or
      (5)   An advertisement of harmful material as defined in this section
culminated in the sale or distribution of the harmful material to a child under
circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the child by the
defendant, their employees or agents, as where the order or request for the
harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, internet or similar means
of communication, and delivery of the harmful material to the child was by
mail, freight, internet or similar means of transport, which advertisement
contained the following statement, or a substantially similar statement, and
that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that they were not under
the age of 18 and that the purchaser falsely stated that they were not under
the age of 18: “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to
purchase the matter advertised. Any person under the age of 18 that falsely
states that they are not under the age of 18 for the purpose of obtaining the
material advertised is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor under the laws of the
state.”
   (D)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall be
judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the child
to whom the material was sold, lent, distributed or given, unless it appears
from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its dissemination or
distribution that it is designed for specially susceptible groups, in which
case the predominant appeal of the material shall be judged with reference to
its intended or probable recipient group.
   (E)   Telecommunications carriers, commercial mobile service providers and
providers of information services, including, but not limited to, internet
service providers and hosting service providers, are not liable under this
section, except for willful and wanton misconduct, by virtue of the
transmission, storage or caching of electronic communications or messages of
others or by virtue of the provision of other related telecommunications,
commercial mobile services or information services used by others in violation
of this section.
(720 ILCS 5/11-21(a)—(d), (h)) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.32 TIE-IN SALES OF OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS TO DISTRIBUTORS.
   Any person, firm or corporation, or any agent, officer or employee thereof,
engaged in the business of distributing books, magazines, periodicals, comic
books or other publications to retail dealers, who shall refuse to furnish to
any retail dealer a quantity of books, magazines, periodicals, comic books or
other publications as the retail dealer normally sells because the retail
dealer refuses to sell, or offer for sale, any books, magazines, periodicals,
comic books or other publications which are obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy
or indecent is guilty of a petty offense. Each publication sold or delivered in
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 133.22) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/11-22
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §
133.15 is a Class A misdemeanor.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.15 that the accused engaged in or performed prostitution as a result of
being a victim of involuntary servitude or trafficking in persons as defined in
720 ILCS 5/10-9.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is determined, after a
reasonable detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or
charged with a violation of this section is a person under the age of 18, that
person shall be immune from prosecution for a prostitution offense under this
section and shall be subject to the temporary protective custody provisions of
§§ 2-5 and 2-6 of the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, being 705 ILCS 405/2-5 and
405/2-6. Pursuant to the provisions of § 2-6 of the Juvenile Court Act of 1987,
a law enforcement officer who takes a person under 18 years of age into custody
under this section shall immediately report an allegation of a violation of 720
ILCS 5/10-9 to the State Department of Children and Family Services State
Central Register, which shall commence an initial investigation into child
abuse or child neglect within 24 hours pursuant to § 7.4 of the Abused and
Neglected Child Reporting Act, 325 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 133.10)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Disorderly conduct
   
134.02   Mob action; failure to disperse
   
134.03   Fighting
   
134.04   Reckless conduct
Public Demonstrations
   
134.15   Advance notice of assembly in writing required; contents
   
134.16   Limitations on size of assembly
   
134.17   Time of holding assembly
Interference with a Public Institution of Higher Education
   
134.30   Definitions
   
134.31   Interference with public institution of higher education
   
134.32   Lawful assembly and petition for redress not prohibited
Minors
   
134.45   Definitions
   
134.46   Curfew
   
134.47   Parental liability
   
134.48   Determination and limits of parental responsibility
   
134.49   Failure to exercise proper parental responsibility
   
134.50   Issuance of complaint
   
134.51   Conditional discharge
   
134.52   Harboring runaways
Harassment
   
134.65   Transmission of obscene messages prohibited
   
134.66   Harassment by telephone
   
134.67   Harassment through electronic communication
   
134.68   Evidence inference
 
   
134.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 134.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and, if liquid
or solid, patented or not containing alcoholic spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with the Acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by
volume.
   (B)   A person commits disorderly conduct when they knowingly:
      (1)   Do any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Transmit in any manner to the Village Fire Department a false alarm
of fire, knowing at the time of transmission that there is no reasonable ground
for believing that the fire exists;
      (3)   Transmit in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place;
      (4)   Transmit in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed;
      (5)   Enter upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it;
      (6)   While acting as a collection agency or as an employee of a
collection agency, and while attempting to collect an alleged debt, make a
telephone call to the alleged debtor which is designed to harass, annoy or
intimidate the alleged debtor;
      (7)   Transmit a false report to the Department of Children and Family
Services under 325 ILCS 5/4;
      (8)   Transmit or cause to be transmitted a false report to the
Department of Public Health under the Nursing Home Care Act, 210 ILCS 45/1-101
et seq.;
      (9)   Knowingly transmits a false report to the Department of Public
Health under 210 ILCS 45/1-101 et seq.;
      (10)   Transmits in any manner to the Police Department or Fire
Department or any privately-owned and operated ambulance service, a false
request for an ambulance, emergency medical technician-ambulance or emergency
medical technician-paramedic, knowing at the time there is no reasonable ground
for believing that such assistance is required;
      (11)   Transmits a false report under 320 ILCS 15/1 et seq.; or
      (12)   Calls the number 9-1-1 for the purpose of making or transmitting a
false alarm or complaint and reporting information when, at the time the call
or transmission is made, the person knows there is no reasonable ground for
making the call or transmission and further knows that the call or transmission
could result in the emergency response of any public safety agency.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or have in their possession
on any street, sidewalk, park or other public place or in any motor vehicle
within the village, containers of alcoholic liquor, except in the original
package with the seal unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 134.01) (Ord. passed 12-4-1974; Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988;
Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
§ 134.02 MOB ACTION; FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Mob action consists of any of the following:
      (1)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
      (2)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
      (3)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law, for
the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of any one supposed to
have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
   (B)   Any violation of division (A) above is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any participant in a mob action who does not withdraw on being
commanded to do so by any peace officer commits a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Any participant in a mob action which shall by violence inflict injury
to the person or property of another commits a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (E)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court shall
order any person convicted of mob action to perform community service for not
less than 30 and not more than 120 hours, if community service is available in
the jurisdiction and is funded and approved by the county board of the county
where the offense was committed. In addition, whenever any person is placed on
supervision for an alleged offense under this section, the supervision shall be
conditioned upon the performance of the community service. This division (E)
does not apply when the court imposes a sentence of incarceration.
(Prior Code, § 134.02) (Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/25-1
§ 134.03 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly:
   (A)   Start any fight;
   (B)   Continue any fight after having an opportunity to withdraw; or
   (C)   Commit an assault or battery in any public place, any place open to
the public or in any place within public view.
(Prior Code, § 134.03) (Ord. 08-0694, passed 8-6-2008) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 RECKLESS CONDUCT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A person is RECKLESS or ACTS RECKLESSLY when that person consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, and that disregard constitutes a gross deviation
from the standard of care that a reasonable person would exercise in that
situation.
   (B)   A person who causes bodily harm to or endangers the bodily safety of
an individual, by any means, commits reckless conduct if they perform
recklessly the acts that cause the harm or endanger safety, whether they
otherwise are lawful or unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 134.04) (Ord. 10-0860, passed 5-19-2010) Penalty, see §
134.99
**** PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS ****
§ 134.15 ADVANCE NOTICE OF ASSEMBLY IN WRITING REQUIRED; CONTENTS.
   It is unlawful for any group or organization to conduct or participate in
any march, assembly, meeting or gathering on roadways unless the principal law
enforcement officer has been given notice in writing of the location, the
maximum number of persons participating and the name and addresses of the
organizers of any such march, assembly, meeting or gathering, its route and its
time of inception and duration at least 24 hours before such inception.
(Prior Code, § 134.10) (Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 430 ILCS 70/5
§ 134.16 LIMITATIONS ON SIZE OF ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful for any group or organization, or any individual acting with
such group or organization, to conduct or participate in any watch, assembly,
meeting or gathering on roadways unless such march, assembly, meeting or
gathering is limited to such numbers as, in the opinion of the principal law
enforcement officer, will not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic in an
unreasonable manner. The principal law enforcement officer shall, within 12
hours of receiving the notice required by §
134.15, inform the group or organization as to the limitation on number of
persons allowed to participate.
(Prior Code, § 134.11) (Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 430 ILCS 70/4
§ 134.17 TIME OF HOLDING ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful for any group, organization or any individual to conduct or
participate in any march, assembly, meeting or gathering on roadways during
peak traffic periods unless authorized by the principal law enforcement officer
for the area in which the march, assembly, meeting or gathering is to be held.
Peak traffic periods, unless otherwise set by municipal or county authority,
are for the purposes of this section declared to be 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. in
the forenoon, and from 4:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. in the afternoon, Monday through
Friday except for state and national holidays.
(Prior Code, § 134.12) (Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 430 ILCS 70/6
**** INTERFERENCE WITH A PUBLIC
INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION ****
§ 134.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUE NOTICE. A person has received DUE NOTICE if they, or the group of which
they are a part, has been given oral or written notice from an authorized
representative of the public institution of education in a manner reasonably
designated to inform them, or the group of which they are a part, that they
should cease such action or depart from such premises. The notice may also be
given by a printed or written notice forbidding entry conspicuously posted or
exhibited at the main entrance of the building or other facility, or the
forbidden part thereof.
   FORCE or VIOLENCE. Includes, but is not limited to, use of one’s person,
individually or in concert with others, to impede access to or movement within
or otherwise to interfere with the conduct of the authorized activities of the
public institution of education, its trustees, school board members,
superintendent, principal, employees, students or invitees.
   PUBLIC INSTITUTION OF EDUCATION. An educational organization located in this
state which provides an organized elementary, secondary or post-high school
educational program, and which is supported in whole or in part by
appropriations of the General Assembly, a unit of local government or school
district.
(Prior Code, § 134.15) (Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21.2-5
§ 134.31 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.
   A person commits interference with a public institution of education when,
on the campus of a public institution of education, or at or in any building or
other facility owned, operated or controlled by the institution, without
authority from the institution they, through force or violence, actual or
threatened:
   (A)   Willfully denies to a trustee, school board member, superintendent,
principal, employee, student or invitee of the institution:
      (1)   Freedom of movement at such place;
      (2)   Use of the property or facilities of the institution; or
      (3)   The right of ingress or egress to the property or facilities of the
institution.
   (B)   Willfully impedes, obstructs, interferes with or disrupts:
      (1)   The performance of institutional duties by a trustee, school board
member, superintendent, principal or employee of the institution; or
      (2)   The pursuit of educational activities, as determined or prescribed
by the institution, by a trustee, school board member, superintendent,
principal, employee, student or invitee of the institution.
   (C)   Knowingly occupies or remains in or at any building, property or other
facility owned, operated or controlled by the institution after due notice to
depart.
(Prior Code, § 134.16) (Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21.2-2 and 5/21.2-4
§ 134.32 LAWFUL ASSEMBLY AND PETITION FOR REDRESS NOT PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in §
134.31 shall prevent lawful assembly of the trustees, school board members,
superintendent, principal, employees, students or invitees of a public
institution of education, or prevents orderly petition for redress of
grievances.
(Prior Code, § 134.17) (Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/21.2-3
**** MINORS ****
§ 134.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of
life. The term EMERGENCY includes, but is not limited to, a fire, natural
disaster and automobile accident.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. The person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by
the Circuit Court of the state, but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, 705
ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
   MINOR. A person who is under the age of 18 years and is not judicially
emancipated or married.
(Prior Code, § 134.25) (Ord. 614, passed 4-19-1978; Ord. 04-0134, passed 3-17-
2004; Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009; Ord. 16-1314, passed 9-7-2016)
§ 134.46 CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a minor to be or remain upon any street
or alley or other public place in the village between the hours of 10:30 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and
5:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
      (2)   It shall be a legal defense to a violation of division (A)(1) above
if the minor is:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian or any other
person 21 years or older authorize by the parent to be a caretaker for the
minor;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in lawful employment, or going to and from employment,
without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   In attendance at an official school, religious or other activity
sponsored by the village, a civic organization or other similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor, or going to or from, without any detour or
stop, such as activity supervised by adults; or
         (g)   Exercising their First Amendment rights, including free exercise
of religion, freedom of speech and the right to assembly or while going to or
from such exercise, without any detour or stop.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone having legal care, custody and control
of any minor to allow or permit the minor to go or be upon any public street,
alley or public place in the village beyond or in violation of the hours
prescribed in division (A) above, except as allowed in the exceptions contained
therein.
   (C)   Every member of the police force is authorized to detain any minor
violating the provisions of division (A) above if after questioning the
apparent offender to determine their age and reason for being in a public
place, a police officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred under
division (A)(1) above and that no defense exists under division (A)(2) above.
The minor shall be taken into custody and then released into the custody of the
minor’s parent, guardian or an adult acting in loco parentis. The police
officer shall notify the parent or guardian as soon as is practicable after
taking the minor into custody.
(Prior Code, § 134.26) (Ord. 298, passed 6-17-1970; Ord. 04-0134, passed 3-17-
2004; Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
§ 134.47 PARENTAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides
with the parent or legal guardian shall be liable for actual damages caused by
the acts of vandalism of the unemancipated minor, if the parent or legal
guardian is on notice as provided in §
134.49. In cases in which a parent or legal guardian is on notice, the parent
or legal guardian shall be made a party defendant in all enforcement
proceedings hereunder against the unemancipated minor child and shall be served
with all citations, summons, complaints, notices and other documents required
to be served the unemancipated minor defendant. In cases in which a parent or
legal guardian is not on notice, the parent or legal guardian shall not be made
a party defendant but shall be served either by certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, or by personal service with a written notice of
proceedings against the parent’s or legal guardian’s unemancipated minor, a
copy of the complaint and notice of the results of any hearing, trial or
adjudication.
   (B)   (1)   When, on notice, the parent or legal guardian or an
unemancipated minor defendant shall be liable for any condition of restitution
or reparation imposed by a court upon the unemancipated minor for committing an
act of vandalism.
      (2)   The court shall order that:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian shall be liable only after the
unemancipated minor fails to fulfill the conditions of restitution or
reparation within a period of time not to exceed six months; or
         (b)   The parent or legal guardian and unemancipated minor be
immediately, jointly and severally liable.
(Prior Code, § 134.27) (Ord. 614, passed 4-19-1978; Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-
2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.48 DETERMINATION AND LIMITS OF PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Parental responsibility shall be limited, for each violation of this
subchapter, to actual damage to property and shall not extend to responsibility
for personal injuries to persons. The amount of damages must be proven by
reasonable written repair or replacement estimates or bills; provided that the
person whose property was damaged may, at their option, perform repair work
themself, and then the actual damage shall include reasonable charges for their
labor. The parent, legal guardian or defendant may contest the reasonableness
of claimed actual damage and, to that extent, shall have the right to inspect
the damaged property and submit alternate repair or replacement estimates to
the court.
(Prior Code, § 134.28) (Ord. 614, passed 4-19-1978; Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-
2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.49 FAILURE TO EXERCISE PROPER PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with the
parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility. The minor
shall be deemed to have committed the acts described below with the knowledge
and permission of the parent and guardian, in violation of this subchapter,
upon the occurrence of the events described in divisions (A), (B) and (C)
below.
   (A)   An unemancipated minor residing with their parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property or
to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute regulating curfew hours, or
shall have incurred non-judicial sanction from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt or violation of an ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property or an admission of guilt or violation of any ordinance, law or statute
regulating curfew hours.
   (B)   The parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
Village Police Department following the adjudication or non-judicial sanction.
   (C)   If at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth in division (B) above, the minor is either adjudicated to be in violation
of any ordinance, law or statute as described in division (A) above, or shall
have incurred non-judicial sanction from another official agency resulting from
an admission of guilt or violation of any ordinance, law or statute as
described in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 134.29) (Ord. 614, passed 4-19-1978; Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-
2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.50 ISSUANCE OF COMPLAINT.
   The village or any person, partnership, corporation, association or any
incorporated or unincorporated religious, educational or charitable
organization whose property is damaged may swear out a complaint for the
enforcement of this subchapter. However, the proceedings shall be brought in
the name of the village.
(Prior Code, § 134.30) (Ord. 614, passed 4-19-1978; Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-
2009)
§ 134.51 CONDITIONAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The conditions of a conditional discharge may include that the
defendant:
      (1)   Not violate any criminal statute or quasi-criminal ordinance of any
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Periodically report to and appear in person before the person or
agency as directed by the court for the purpose of reviewing the defendant’s
fulfillment of the conditions of the conditional discharge;
      (3)   Work or pursue a course or study of vocational training;
      (4)   Undergo medical or psychiatric treatment, professional counsel or
treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism; and
      (5)   Subject to the limitations set forth in §
134.48, make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed actual loss
or damage to property and pecuniary loss.
   (B)   When a court orders restitution or reparation as a condition for a
conditional discharge, the court shall determine the amount and conditions of
payment. If prior to the expiration or termination of the period of conditional
discharge, the defendant violates a condition of payment, the court may impose
an additional period of not more than two years, only the conditions of payment
shall continue to apply during this additional period. The court shall retain
all of the incidents of the original sentence, including the authority to
modify or enlarge the conditions and to revoke the penalty of conditional
discharge if the conditions of payment are violated during the additional
period.
   (C)   When a petition is filed charging a violation of a condition imposed
for conditional discharge, the court:
      (1)   May order the issuance to the alleged offender of a summons to
appear;
      (2)   May, where the petitioner demonstrates the existence of probable
cause that the offender may flee the jurisdiction or cause serious harm to
others, or when the offender fails to answer a summons, order a warrant for the
offender’s arrest;
      (3)   Shall conduct a hearing of the alleged violation. The court may
admit the offender to bail pending the hearing;
      (4)   Shall receive evidence in open court with the right of
confrontation, cross-examination and representation by counsel. The village has
the burden of going forward with the evidence and proving the violation by the
preponderance of the evidence;
      (5)   Shall not revoke a conditional discharge for failure to comply with
conditions of a sentence which imposes financial obligations upon the offender
unless the failure is due to their wilful refusal to pay; and
      (6)   May modify the conditions of a conditional discharge on motion of
the village or on their own motion or at the request of the offender after
notice to all parties and a hearing.
   (D)   If the court finds that the offender has violated a condition at any
time prior to the expiration or termination of the period, it may continue the
offender on the existing period, with or without modifying or enlarging the
conditions, or may impose any other penalty that is available at the time of
the initial penalty. A judgment revoking probation of conditional discharge is
a final, appealable order.
(Prior Code, § 134.31) (Ord. 614, passed 4-19-1978; Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-
2009)
§ 134.52 HARBORING RUNAWAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an agency or
association providing crisis intervention services, without the knowledge and
consent of the minor’s parent or guardian, to knowingly give shelter to a
minor, other than a mature minor who has been emancipated under 750 ILCS 30/
1 et seq., for more than 48 hours without the consent of the minor’s parent or
guardian, and without notifying the local law enforcement authorities of the
minor’s name and the fact that the minor in being provided shelter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, with the intent to aid or abet or
to conceal the harboring of a runaway, to knowingly destroy, alter, conceal or
disguise physical evidence of the runaway minor’s whereabouts or to knowingly
furnish false information with respect to the runaway minor’s whereabouts.
(Prior Code, § 134.32) (Ord. 983-87, passed 2-4-1987; Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-
9-1988; Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
**** HARASSMENT ****
§ 134.65 TRANSMISSION OF OBSCENE MESSAGES PROHIBITED.
   Any person in this state who sends messages or uses language or terms which
are obscene, lewd or immoral with the intent to offend by means of or while
using a telephone or telegraph facilities, equipment or wires of any person,
firm or corporation engaged in the transmission of news or messages between
states or within the state is guilty of this offense. The use of language or
terms which are obscene, lewd or immoral is prima facie evidence of the intent
to offend.
(Prior Code, § 134.40) (Ord. 0010-03, passed 2-19-2003; Ord. 09-0793, passed
10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.66 HARASSMENT BY TELEPHONE.
   Harassment by telephone is use of telephone communication for any of the
following purposes:
   (A)   Making any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene,
lewd, lascivious, filthy or indecent with an intent to offend;
   (B)   Making a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, with
intent to abuse, threaten or harass any person at the called number;
   (C)   Making or causing the telephone of another repeatedly to ring, with
intent to harass any person at the called number;
   (D)   Making repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
solely to harass any person at the called number;
   (E)   Making a telephone call or knowingly inducing a person to make a
telephone call for the purpose of harassing another person who is under 13
years of age, regardless of whether the person under 13 years of age consents
to the harassment, if the defendant is at least 16 years of age at the time of
the commission of the offense; or
   (F)   Knowingly permitting any telephone under one’s control to be used for
any of the purposes mentioned herein.
(Prior Code, § 134.41) (Ord. 0010-03, passed 2-19-2003; Ord. 09-0793, passed
10-21-2009) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.67 HARASSMENT THROUGH ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION.
   (A)   Harassment through electronic communications is the use of electronic
communication for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   Making any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is
obscene with an intent to offend;
      (2)   Interrupting, with the intent to harass, the telephone service or
the electronic communication service of any person;
      (3)   Transmitting to any person, with the intent to harass and
regardless of whether the communication is read in its entirety or at all, any
file, document or other communication which prevents that person from using
their telephone service or electronic communications device;
      (4)   Transmitting an electronic communication or knowingly inducing a
person to transmit an electronic communication for the purpose of harassing
another person who is under 13 years of age, regardless of whether the person
under 13 years of age consents to the harassment, if the defendant is at least
16 years of age at the time of the commission of the offense;
      (5)   Threatening injury to the person or the property of the person to
whom an electronic communication is directed or to any of their family or
household members; or
      (6)   Knowingly permitting any electronic communications device to be
used for any of the purposes mentioned in this division (A).
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION. Any transfer of signs, signals, writings,
images, sounds, data or intelligence of any nature transmitted in whole or in
part by a wire, radio, electromagnetic, photoelectric or photo-optical system.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Includes spouses, former spouses, parents,
children, stepchildren and other persons related by blood or by present or
prior marriage, persons who share or formerly shared a common dwelling, persons
who have or allegedly share a blood relationship through a child, persons who
have or have had a dating engagement relationship and persons with disabilities
and their personal assistants.
   (C)   For purpose of this section, neither a casual acquaintanceship nor
ordinary fraternization between two individuals in business or social contexts
shall be deemed to constitute a dating relationship.
(Prior Code, § 134.42) (Ord. 0010-03, passed 2-19-2003; Ord. 09-0793, passed
10-21-2009)
§ 134.68 EVIDENCE INFERENCE.
   Evidence that a defendant made additional telephone calls or engaged in
additional electronic communications after having been requested by a named
complainant or by a family or household member of the complainant to stop may
be considered as evidence of an intent to harass unless disproved by evidence
to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 134.43) (Ord. 0010-03, passed 2-19-2003; Ord. 09-0793, passed
10-21-2009)
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
this title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 134.99)
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §
134.01(B)(1), (B)(3), (B)(4), (5), (B)(7), (B)(8), (B)(9), (B)(10), (B)(11) or
(B)(12) above is a misdemeanor; any violation of division (B)(6) above is a
business offense. A violation of §
134.01(B)(2) is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of disorderly conduct to perform community
service for not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours, if community service
is available in the jurisdiction and is funded and approved by the county board
of the county where the offense was committed. In addition, whenever any person
is placed on supervision for an alleged offense under this section, the
supervision shall be conditioned upon the performance of the community service.
This division does not apply when the court imposes a sentence of
incarceration.
(Prior Code, § 134.01)
   (C)   Reckless conduct under §
134.04 is unlawful, and shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $150.
(Prior Code, § 134.04)
   (D)   A person convicted of violation of §
134.31 commits a misdemeanor. If the interference with the public institution
of education is accompanied by a threat of personal injury or property damage,
the person commits a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(Prior Code, § 134.16)
(Ord. passed 12-4-1974; Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988; Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-
20-1996; Ord. 09-0793, passed 10-21-2009; Ord. 10-0860, passed 5-19-2010)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
Interference with Public Officers
   
135.01   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer, firefighter or correctional
institution employee
   
135.02   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
135.03   Escape
   
135.04   Aiding escape
   
135.05   Obstructing service of process
Interference with Judicial Procedure
   
135.20   Compounding a crime
   
135.21   Communicating with jurors
   
135.22   Harassment of jurors
   
135.24   Simulating legal process
   
135.25   Tampering with public notice
   
135.26   Violation of conditions of pretrial release
Official Misconduct
   
135.40   Failure to report offer of bribe
   
135.41   Failure to report bribe
 
   
135.99   Penalty
**** INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC OFFICERS ****
§ 135.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER, FIREFIGHTER OR CORRECTIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one
known to the person to be a peace officer, firefighter or correctional
institution employee of any authorized act within their official capacity
commits a misdemeanor as set out in §
130.99.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE. Any person employed to supervise and
control inmates incarcerated in a penitentiary, state farm, reformatory,
prison, jail, house of correction, police detention area, half-way house or
other institution or place for the incarceration or custody of persons under
sentence for offenses or awaiting trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest
for an offense, a violation of probation, a violation of parole, a violation of
aftercare release, a violation of mandatory supervised release or awaiting a
bail setting hearing or preliminary hearing or who are sexually dangerous
persons or who are sexually violent persons.
      FIREFIGHTER. Any individual, either as an employee or volunteer, of a
regularly constituted fire department of a municipality or fire protection
district who performs firefighting duties, including, but not limited to, the
Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, captain, engineer, driver, ladder person,
hose person, pipe person and any other member of a regularly constituted fire
department. FIREFIGHTER also means a person employed by the Office of the State
Fire Marshal to conduct arson investigations.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section if a
person resists or obstructs the performance of one known by the person to be a
firefighter by returning to or remaining in a dwelling, residence, building or
other structure to rescue or to attempt to rescue any person.
(720 ILCS 5/31-1) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.02 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   Whoever upon command refuses or knowingly fails reasonably to aid a person
known by them to be a peace officer in any of the following commits a petty
offense:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(720 ILCS 5/31-8) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.03 ESCAPE.
   (A)   A person convicted of a misdemeanor or charged with the commission of
a misdemeanor, or charged with or adjudicated delinquent for an act which, if
committed by an adult, would constitute a misdemeanor, who intentionally
escapes from any penal institution or from the custody of an employee of that
institution commits a misdemeanor. A person convicted of a misdemeanor, or
adjudicated delinquent for an act which, if committed by an adult, would
constitute a misdemeanor, who knowingly fails to report to a penal institution
or to report for periodic imprisonment at any time, or knowingly fails to
return from furlough or from work and day release, or who knowingly fails to
abide by the terms of home confinement is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   A person in the lawful custody of a peace officer for the alleged
commission of a misdemeanor offense or an act which, if committed by an adult,
would constitute a misdemeanor, who intentionally escapes from custody commits
a misdemeanor.
   (C)   A person in the lawful custody of a peace officer for an alleged
violation of a term or condition of supervision, probation or conditional
discharge for a misdemeanor or an act which, if committed by an adult, would
constitute a misdemeanor, who intentionally escapes from custody is guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 135.03) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-6
§ 135.04 AIDING ESCAPE.
   (A)   Whoever, with intent to aid any prisoner in escaping from any penal
institution, conveys into the institution, or transfers to the prisoner
anything for use in escaping commits a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Whoever knowingly aids a person convicted of a misdemeanor or charged
with the commission of a misdemeanor, or charged with or adjudicated delinquent
for an act which, if committed by an adult, would constitute a misdemeanor, in
escaping from any penal institution or from the custody of an employee of that
institution commits a misdemeanor. Whoever knowingly aids a person convicted of
a misdemeanor or charged with the commission of a misdemeanor, or charged with
or adjudicated delinquent for an act which, if committed by an adult, would
constitute a misdemeanor, in failing to return from furlough or from work and
day release is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Whoever knowingly aids a person in escaping from any public
institution, other than a penal institution, in which they are lawfully
detained, or from the custody of an employee of that institution, commits a
misdemeanor.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly aids a person in the lawful custody of a peace
officer in escaping from custody commits a misdemeanor.
   (E)   An officer or employee of any penal institution who recklessly permits
any prisoner in their custody to escape commits a misdemeanor.
   (F)   With respect to a person who is in the lawful custody of a peace
officer for an alleged violation of a term or condition of supervision,
probation or conditional discharge for a misdemeanor, whoever intentionally
aids that person to escape from that custody is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 135.04) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-7
§ 135.05 OBSTRUCTING SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Whoever knowingly resists or obstructs the authorized service or execution
of any civil or criminal process or order of any court commits a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 135.05) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/31-3
**** INTERFERENCE WITH JUDICIAL PROCEDURE ****
§ 135.20 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   A person commits compounding a crime when they knowingly receive or
offer to another any consideration for a promise not to prosecute or aid in the
prosecution of an offender.
   (B)   Compounding a crime is a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 135.10) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/32-1
§ 135.21 COMMUNICATING WITH JURORS.
   Communicating with jurors is now a felony offense under 720 ILCS 5/32-4.
(Prior Code, § 135.11)
§ 135.22 HARASSMENT OF JURORS.
   Harassment of jurors is now a felony offense under 720 ILCS 5/32-4a.
(Prior Code, § 135.12)
§ 135.24 SIMULATING LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   A person commits simulating legal process when they issue or deliver
any document which they know falsely purports to be or simulates any civil or
criminal process.
   (B)   Simulating legal process is a Class B misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 135.14) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/32-7
§ 135.25 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   A person commits tampering with public notice when they, knowingly and
without lawful authority, alter, destroy, deface, remove or conceal any public
notice, posted according to law, during the time for which the notice was to
remain posted.
(720 ILCS 5/32-9(a))
§ 135.26 VIOLATION OF CONDITIONS OF PRETRIAL RELEASE.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly violates a condition of pretrial release by
possessing a firearm in violation of their conditions of pretrial release
commits a Class 4 felony for a first violation and a Class 3 felony for a
second or subsequent violation.
   (B)   Whoever, having been released pretrial under conditions for appearance
before any court of this state, while charged with a criminal offense in which
the victim is a family or household member as defined in Article 112A of the
Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963, 725 ILCS 5/112A-1 et seq., knowingly
violates a condition of that release as set forth in § 110-10(d) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure of 1963, 725 ILCS 5/110-10(d), commits a Class A
misdemeanor.
   (C)   Whoever, having been released pretrial for appearance before any court
of this state for a felony, Class A misdemeanor or a criminal offense in which
the victim is a family or household member as defined in Article 112A of the
Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963, 725 ILCS 5/112A-1 et seq., is charged with
any other felony, Class A misdemeanor or a criminal offense in which the victim
is a family or household member as defined in Article 112A of the Code of
Criminal Procedure of 1963 while on this release, must appear before the court
and may not be released by law enforcement under § 109-1 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure of 1963, 725 ILCS 5/109-1, prior to the court appearance.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall interfere with or prevent the exercise
by any court of its power to punish for contempt. Any sentence imposed for
violation of this section may be served consecutive to the sentence imposed for
the charge for which pretrial release had been granted and with respect to
which the defendant has been convicted.
(Prior Code, § 135.16) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/32-10
   Violation of bail bond on felony charge or appeal, see 720 ILCS 5/32-10
**** OFFICIAL MISCONDUCT ****
§ 135.40 FAILURE TO REPORT OFFER OF BRIBE.
   Any person participating, officiating or connected with any professional or
amateur athletic contest, sporting event or exhibition, who fails to report
forthwith to their employer; the promoter of such contest, event or exhibition;
a peace officer; or the local state’s attorney, any offer or promise made to
them in violation of 720 ILCS 5/29-1, commits a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 135.20) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/29-3
§ 135.41 FAILURE TO REPORT BRIBE.
   Any public officer, public employee or juror who fails to report forthwith
to the local state’s attorney any offer made to them in violation of 720 ILCS
5/33-1 commits a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 135.21) Penalty, see §
135.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/33-2
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates §
135.01(A) commits a Class A misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a
court shall order any person convicted of resisting or obstructing a peace
officer, firefighter or correctional institution employee to be sentenced to a
minimum of 48 consecutive hours of imprisonment or ordered to perform community
service for not less than 100 hours as may be determined by the court.
         (b)   The person shall not be eligible for probation in order to
reduce the sentence of imprisonment or community service.
      (3)   A person convicted for a violation of this section whose violation
was the proximate cause of an injury to a peace officer, firefighter or
correctional institution employee is guilty of a Class 4 felony.
(720 ILCS 5/31-1)
   (C)   A person who violates §
135.03(A), (B) or (C) above while armed with a dangerous weapon commits a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(Prior Code, § 135.03)
   (D)   A person who violates §
135.04(B), (C), (E) or (F) above while armed with a dangerous weapon commits a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(Prior Code, §
135.04
   (E)   Tampering with public notice is a petty offense.
(720 ILCS 5/32-9(b))
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Drug Offenses
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Possession limits
   
136.03   Unlawful possession and use of cannabis
   
136.04   Possession of cannabis and cannabis paraphernalia by a minor
   
136.05   Unlawful use of cannabis
   
136.06   Unlawful possession of cannabis within a motor vehicle
   
136.07   Unlawful smoking of cannabis
   
136.08   Unlawful advertising
   
136.09   Possession with intent
   
136.10   Possession with intent to transfer to a minor
   
136.11   Production of cannabis sativa plant
   
136.12   Unlawful possession or sale of illegal drug paraphernalia
   
136.13   Prescription of drug use instruments by licensed physician; refills;
certificates
   
136.14   Possession of drug paraphernalia
Litter
   
136.25   Definitions
   
136.26   Dumping of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
136.27   Dumping litter from motor vehicles; private use of public receptacles
   
136.28   Dumping litter from motor vehicles; presumption
   
136.29   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
136.30   Placing and maintenance of litter receptacles in places open to the
public
   
136.31   Abandonment of motor vehicle; presumption
   
136.32   Court may order removal of litter by violator
Public Nuisance
   
136.45   Revocation of licenses, permits and certificates
Sale and Possession of Smoking Materials with Respect to Minors
   
136.60   Definitions
   
136.61   Prohibited sales, delivery
   
136.62   Warning signs
   
136.63   Minimum age to sell smoking materials
   
136.64   Purchase by minors prohibited
   
136.65   Possession by minors prohibited
   
136.66   Certain free distributions prohibited
   
136.67   Vending machines
   
136.68   Responsibility for agents and employees
   
136.69   Revocation of licenses
 
   
136.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
**** DRUG OFFENSES ****
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISE. To engage in promotional activities, including, but not limited
to, newspaper, radio, internet and electronic media and television advertising,
the distribution of fliers and circulars, billboard advertising and the display
of window and interior signs.
   CANNABIS. Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced, directly or indirectly, by extraction,
or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of
extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of
such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of
such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of
germination.
   CANNABIS CONCENTRATE. A product derived from cannabis that is produced by
extracting cannabinoids, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) from the plant
through the use of propylene glycol, glycerin, butter, olive oil or other
typical cooking fats; water, ice or dry ice; or butane, propane, CO2, ethanol
or isopropanol and with the intended use of smoking or making a cannabis-
infused product. The use of any other solvent is expressly prohibited unless
and until it is approved by the State Department of Agriculture.
   CANNABIS CONTAINER. A sealed, traceable container or package used for the
purpose of containment of cannabis or cannabis-infused product during
transportation.
   CANNABIS FLOWER. Marijuana, hashish and other substances that are identified
as including any parts of the plant cannabis sativa and including derivatives
or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis; including raw kief,
leaves and buds, but not resin that has been extracted from any part of such
plant; nor any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation
of such plant, its seeds or resin.
   CANNABIS-INFUSED PRODUCT. A beverage, food, oil, ointment, tincture, topical
formulation or another product containing cannabis that is not intended to be
smoked.
   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. Equipment, products and materials which are intended
to be used for planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting or otherwise
introducing cannabis into the human body.
   CASUAL DELIVERY. The delivery of not more than ten grams of any substance
containing cannabis without consideration.
   COMPASSIONATE USE OF MEDICAL CANNABIS PROGRAM ACT or COMPASSIONATE USE OF
MEDICAL CANNABIS ACT. 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
   DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession of cannabis, with or without consideration, whether or not there is
an agency relationship.
   ENCLOSED, LOCKED SPACE. A closet, room, greenhouse, building or other
enclosed area equipped with locks or other security devices that permit access
only by authorized individuals under this division. The term ENCLOSED, LOCKED
SPACE may include:
      (1)   A space within a residential building that is the primary residence
of the individual cultivating five or fewer cannabis plants that are more than
five inches tall and includes sleeping quarters and indoor plumbing and is only
accessible by a key or code that is different from any key or code that can be
used to access the residential building from the exterior; or
      (2)   A structure, such as a shed or greenhouse, that lies on the same
plot of land as a residential building that includes sleeping quarters and
indoor plumbing and is used as a primary residence by the person cultivating
five or fewer cannabis plants that are more than five inches tall. The
structure must remain locked when it is unoccupied by people.
   MANUFACTURE. The production, preparation, propagation, compounding,
conversion or processing of cannabis, either directly or indirectly, by
extraction from substances of natural origin, independently by means of
chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis,
and includes any packaging or repackaging of cannabis, or labeling of its
container, except that this term does not include the preparation, compounding,
packaging or labeling of cannabis as an incident to lawful research, teaching
or chemical analysis, and not for sale.
   MINOR. Any individual under the age of 21 years old.
   PERSON. A natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
   PRODUCE or PRODUCTION. Planting, cultivating, tending or harvesting.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be
observed by others. The term PUBLIC PLACE includes all parts of buildings,
parks, recreation areas, wildlife areas or playgrounds owned in whole or in
part, leased or managed by the state or a unit of local government. The term
PUBLIC PLACE does not include a private residence unless the private residence
is used to provide licensed child care, foster care or other similar social
service care on the premises.
   SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE. An offense under §§
136.02 through
136.05, the offender of which, prior to their conviction of the offense, has at
any time been convicted under these sections or under any laws of the United
States, this state or of any state relating to cannabis or any controlled
substance as defined in the Illinois Controlled Substance Act, 720 ILCS 570/100
et seq.
(Prior Code, § 136.01) (Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 550/3
§ 136.02 POSSESSION LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a state resident over the age of 21 years to
possess any amount of cannabis greater than:
      (1)   Thirty grams of cannabis flower;
      (2)   Five grams of cannabis concentrate; and
      (3)   Five hundred milligrams of THC contained in cannabis-infused
products.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a non-resident over the age of 21 years to
possess any amount of cannabis greater than:
      (1)   Fifteen grams of cannabis flower;
      (2)   Two and one-half grams of cannabis concentrate; and
      (3)   Two hundred fifty milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused
product.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly obtain, seek to
obtain or possess an amount of cannabis from a dispensing organization or craft
grower that would cause them to exceed the possession limit under this section,
including cannabis that is cultivated by a person under this division (C) or
obtained under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et
seq.
(Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION AND USE OF CANNABIS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or use cannabis in the
following places:
   (A)   A school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver
pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
   (B)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school, unless
permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.;
   (C)   In any correctional facility; and
   (D)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
child care, or other similar social service care on the premises.
(Ord. 24-1927, passed 8-21-2024; Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.04 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS AND CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA BY A MINOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person who is under 21 years of age to
possess any amount of cannabis, unless they are a qualified patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person who is under 21 years of age to
possess cannabis paraphernalia, unless they are a qualified patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
(Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.05 UNLAWFUL USES OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   Unlawful use of cannabis - motor vehicle; passenger. It shall be
unlawful for any person to use cannabis within the passenger area of any motor
vehicle upon a street within the village.
   (B)   Unlawful use of cannabis - public place. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use cannabis in any public place.
   (C)   Unlawful use of cannabis - near minor. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use cannabis while they are knowingly in close physical proximity to
anyone under 21 years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
   (D)   Unlawful use of cannabis - private property. It shall be unlawful for
a person, quest, client, lessee, customer or visitor to use cannabis on any
property, including on land owned in whole or in part, or managed in whole or
in part by the village, and including areas where motor vehicles are parked,
without the permission of the business or lawful possessor of the property.
(Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.06 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF CANNABIS WITHIN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess cannabis within any area of
any motor vehicle upon a street within the village, except in a sealed, odor-
proof, child-resistant cannabis container which is reasonably inaccessible
while the vehicle is moving.
(Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.07 UNLAWFUL SMOKING OF CANNABIS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke cannabis in a place where
smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free Illinois Act, 410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.
(Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.08 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to engage in advertising
that is false or misleading; promotes overconsumption of cannabis or cannabis
products; depicts the actual consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
depicts a person under 21 years of age consuming cannabis; makes any health,
medicinal or therapeutic claims about cannabis or cannabis-infused products;
includes the image of a cannabis leaf or bud; includes any image designed or
likely to appeal to minors, including cartoons, toys, animals or children or
any other likeness to images, characters or phrases that is designed in any
manner to be appealing to or encourage consumption by persons under 21 years of
age.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for or any person or entity to place or maintain
an advertisement of cannabis or a cannabis-infused product in any form or
through any medium:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of the perimeter of school grounds, a playground,
a recreation center or facility, a child care center, a public park or public
library or a game arcade;
      (2)   On or in a public transit vehicle or public transit shelter; and
      (3)   On or in publicly-owned or publicly- operated property.
(Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.09 POSSESSION WITH INTENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person not licensed by the state to
knowingly manufacture, deliver or possess with the intent to deliver or
manufacture any amount of cannabis.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
it is unlawful for any person knowingly to manufacture, deliver or possess with
intent to deliver or manufacture cannabis. Any person who violates this section
with respect to up to ten grams of any substance containing cannabis is guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Persons who violate this section with respect to more than ten grams
of any substance containing cannabis are guilty of a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   Any delivery of cannabis which is a casual delivery shall be treated
in all respects as possession of cannabis for purposes of penalties.
(Ord. 24-1927, passed 8-21-2024; Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 550/6 and 7
§ 136.10 POSSESSION WITH INTENT TO TRANSFER TO A MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to facilitate a minor in purchasing,
possessing, using, processing, transporting, growing or consuming cannabis or
cannabis paraphernalia except where authorized by the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., or by the community college
cannabis vocational pilot program.
(Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.11 PRODUCTION OF CANNABIS SATIVA PLANT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an individual to cultivate cannabis plants
unless they are licensed by the state or a registered qualifying patient under
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a registered qualifying patient of the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., to cultivate
cannabis plants:
      (1)   Outside an enclosed locked space;
      (2)   That are not for personal use;
      (3)   If the individual is under the age of 21 years old;
      (4)   In excess of five plants that are more than five inches tall;
      (5)   In a location where they are subject to ordinary public view;
      (6)   On nonresidential property; and
      (7)   Without the consent of the lawful owner of the property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a registered qualifying patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., to sell,
transfer or gift any home-grown cannabis as authorized under this section and
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
(Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.12 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OR SALE OF ILLEGAL DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions of §
136.14 shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess an item
of illegal drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it for ingesting or
otherwise introducing a controlled substance into the human body, or in
preparing a controlled substance purpose. In determining intent under this
division (B)(1), the trier of fact may take into consideration the proximity of
the controlled substance to drug paraphernalia or the presence of a controlled
substance on the drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   A person who violates any provision or provisions of this section,
upon conviction, shall be fined $750 as a civil penalty. Each day of the
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Upon satisfaction of the
penalty, records relating to the violation shall be expunged in the manner
provided by law.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep for sale, offer for
sale, sell or deliver for commercial consideration any item of illegal drug
paraphernalia. The penalty for violation of this division (B) shall be $1,000
for each such offense.
(Ord. 24-1927, passed 8-21-2024; Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.13 PRESCRIPTION OF DRUG USE INSTRUMENTS BY LICENSED PHYSICIAN; REFILLS;
CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   As used in this section, PRESCRIBER has the meaning ascribed to it in
§ 102 of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/102(mm).
   (B)   A prescriber may direct a patient under their immediate charge to have
in possession any of the instruments specified in §
136.12 which may be dispensed by a registered pharmacist in this state only:
      (1)   Upon a written prescription of the prescriber;
      (2)   Upon an oral or electronic order of the prescriber, which order is
reduced promptly to writing and filed by the pharmacist;
      (3)   By refilling any written, oral or electronic prescription if the
refilling is authorized by the prescriber either in the original prescription
or by oral order which is promptly reduced to writing and filled by the
pharmacist in the same manner and under the same conditions as any other
prescription issued by a practitioner licensed by law to write prescriptions;
or
      (4)   Upon a signed statement of the patient, upon proper identification,
stating that the prescriptions or instruments specified in §
136.12 were lost or broken, as the case may be; the name and address of the
prescriber, the name and address of the patient and the purpose for which the
prescription was ordered. The written, oral or electronic prescriptions when
reduced to writing, for instruments specified in §
136.12, shall contain the date of the prescription, the name and address of the
prescriber, the name and address of the patient, the purpose for which the
prescription is ordered and the date when dispensed and by whom dispensed.
   (C)   A licensed physician or other allied medical practitioner, authorized
by the laws of the state to prescribe or administer controlled substances or
cannabis to human beings or animals, may authorize any person, or the owner of
any animal, to purchase and have in their possession any of the instruments
specified in §
136.12, which may be sold to them without a specific written, oral or
electronic prescription or order, by any person authorized by the laws of the
state to sell and dispense controlled substances or cannabis, if the
authorization is in the form of a certificate giving the name and address of
the licensed physician or other allied medical practitioner; the name, address
and signature of the person, or of the owner of the animal, so authorized; the
purpose or reason of the authorization, and the date of the certificate; and in
that event, no other prescription, writing or record shall be required to
authorize the possession or sale of the instruments.
(Prior Code, § 136.09) (Ord. 24-1927, passed 8-21-2024; Ord. 25-1980, passed 4-
16-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 635/5
§ 136.14 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CANNABIS. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in § 3 of the Illinois
Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/3, as if that definition were incorporated
herein.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in § 102 of
the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/102, as if that definition
were incorporated herein.
      DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind,
other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined by § 10 of the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, 720 ILCS 646/10, which
are intended to be used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the
Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq., or the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq. It includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         (b)   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
         (c)   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private
home for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
cannabis or controlled substances;
         (d)   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for
cutting cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
         (e)   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human
body including, where applicable, the following items:
            1.   Water pipes;
            2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            5.   Carburetor pipes;
            6.   Electric pipes;
            7.   Air-driven pipes;
            8.   Chillums;
            9.   Bongs; and
            10.   Ice pipes or chillers.
         (f)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller,
is for use in violation of this section.
   (B)   Possession of drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis
or a controlled substance into the human body, or in preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance for that use, is guilty of unlawful possession of drug
paraphernalia for which the court shall impose a minimum fine of $750.
      (2)   In determining intent under division (B)(1) above, the trier of
fact may take into consideration the proximity of the cannabis or controlled
substances to drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled
substance on the drug paraphernalia.
      (3)   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia, but
whose intent is not necessarily to use it in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing cannabis or a controlled substance for that use, is also guilty of
unlawful possession of drug paraphernalia for which the court shall impose a
fine no less than $55 nor more than $750.
   (C)   Exempt items - determination. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for sale;
      (2)   (a)   Items historically and customarily used in connection with
the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting
or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance.
         (b)   Items exempt under this division (C)(2)(a) include, but are not
limited to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes and cigarette-
rolling papers.
      (3)   (a)   Items listed in division (A) above which are marketed for
decorative purposes, when such items have been rendered completely inoperable
or incapable of being used for any illicit purpose prohibited by this section.
         (b)   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under
this division, the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other
logically relevant factors, the following:
            1.   The general, usual, customary and historical use to which the
item involved has been put;
            2.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of
the item and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the
device upon its functioning;
            3.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
            4.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at
the time and place of sale or commercial delivery;
            5.   Any national or local advertising, concerning the design,
purpose or use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such
advertising occurs;
            6.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was
displayed for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or
otherwise exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
            7.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or rated items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products; and
            8.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in
the community.
(Prior Code, § 136.13) (Ord. 2412-96, passed 4-3-1996; Ord. 10-0859, passed 5-
19-2010)
**** LITTER ****
§ 136.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER.
      (1)   Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste.
      (2)   LITTER may include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash,
refuse, cigarettes, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden
waste, newspaper, magazines, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other
packaging construction material, abandoned vehicle (as defined in the Illinois
Vehicle Code (see 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.)), motor vehicle parts, furniture,
oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind,
any object likely to injure any person or create a traffic hazard, potentially
infectious medical waste as defined in § 3.360 of the Environmental Protection
Act (415 ILCS 5/3.360) or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature,
which has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
(415 ILCS 105/3(a))
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in
Chapter 70.
§ 136.26 DUMPING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or permit
the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of litter
upon any public or private property in the village, or upon or into any river,
lake, pond or other stream or body of water in the village unless:
   (A)   The property has been designated by the village or any of its agencies
for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the State Pollution
Control Board;
   (B)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
   (C)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession,
or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant
and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public nuisance or a
fire hazard;
   (D)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; and/or
   (E)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly disposes of any
litter, including, but not limited to, potentially infectious medical waste as
defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.360, when the emergency situation no longer exists.
(415 ILCS 105/4) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.27 DUMPING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLES; PRIVATE USE OF PUBLIC RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any
public or private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream or
body of water in this village except as permitted under §
136.26(A) through (E).
   (B)   Nor shall any person transport, by any means, garbage or refuse from
any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm or other site to and deposit
the material in, around or on top of trash barrels or other receptacles placed
along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
(415 ILCS 105/5) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.28 DUMPING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLES; PRESUMPTION.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
136.27, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(415 ILCS 105/9)
§ 136.29 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of another
person.
(415 ILCS 105/6) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.30 PLACING AND MAINTENANCE OF LITTER RECEPTACLES IN PLACES OPEN TO THE
PUBLIC.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this chapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes, but is not limited to, commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies and shopping
malls; and property held out to the public for assemblage, recreation or as a
public way includes, but is not limited to, any property that is publicly-owned
or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this division
(B) for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS but
excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas located thereon.
(415 ILCS 105/10) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.31 ABANDONMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE; PRESUMPTION.
   (A)   No person shall abandon a motor vehicle on any highway, on any public
property or on any private property of which they are not the owner or tenant
in lawful possession in the municipality. The person to whom last was issued
the certificate of title to the vehicle by the Secretary of State is presumed
to be the person to have abandoned that vehicle, but this presumption may be
rebutted.
   (B)   ABANDONED VEHICLES as used in this section shall be defined as all
motor vehicles in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being
delivered in its condition; or any vehicle that has not been moved in seven
consecutive days and is apparently deserted.
(Prior Code, § 136.21) (Ord. 2020-89, passed 8-2-1989) Penalty, see §
136.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandonment prohibited, see §
78.30
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 415 ILCS 105/7
§ 136.32 COURT MAY ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER BY VIOLATOR.
   In addition to any fine imposed under this section, the court may order that
the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly dispose of the
litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal and disposal and
may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the person so convicted.
(415 ILCS 105/8(b))
**** PUBLIC NUISANCE ****
§ 136.45 REVOCATION OF LICENSES, PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   All licenses, permits or certificates issued by the municipality authorizing
the serving of food or liquor on any premises found to constitute a public
nuisance as described in Chapter 92 shall be void and shall be revoked by the
issuing authority; and no license, permit or certificate so revoked shall be
reissued for the premises for a period of 60 days thereafter; nor shall any
person convicted of knowingly maintaining the nuisance be reissued a license,
permit or certificate for one year from their conviction. No license, permit or
certificate shall be revoked pursuant to this section without a full hearing
conducted by the commission or agency which issued the license.
(Prior Code, § 136.26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/37-3
**** SALE AND POSSESSION OF SMOKING
MATERIALS WITH RESPECT TO MINORS ****
§ 136.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. A person who has not yet attained the age of 21 years of age.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint venture or any employee or agent thereof.
   SMOKING MATERIALS. As used herein, SMOKING MATERIALS shall mean and include:
      (1)   Any type of tobacco or other leaf, herb or vegetation that is
intended or capable of bing lit or burned to produce smoke or vapors for
inhalation, exhalation or other consumption, including all such substances
contained or used within cigarettes, cigars, hookahs, pipes or other similar
devices;
      (2)   Any type of tobacco intended to be consumed orally without lighting
or burning, including, but not limited to, chewing tobacco, snuff, dip, snus or
tobacco in any other orally consumable form, such as pills, tablets, lozenges,
pellets or mints, whether “spitless” or not; and
      (3)   Any other substance or device intended or capable of delivering
nicotine into the human body, including, but not limited to, electronic
cigarettes, “e-cigs” or vaporizing devices, but excluding any product approved
by the FDA and marketed for smoking or tobacco use cessation purposes.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
smoking materials.
(Prior Code, § 136.35) (Ord. 2303-95, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 19-1574, passed 6-
5-2019; Ord. 19-1591, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 136.61 PROHIBITED SALES, DELIVERY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, buy for, offer for sale,
give away or deliver smoking materials to any person under the age of 21 years,
or for any person under the age of 21 years to buy smoking materials.
   (B)   Before selling, offering for sale, giving or furnishing smoking
materials to another person, the person selling, offering for sale, giving or
furnishing the smoking materials shall verify that the person is at least 21
years of age by:
      (1)   Examining from any person that appears to be under 30 years of age
a government-issued photographic identification that establishes the person to
be 21 years of age or older; or
      (2)   For sales of smoking materials made through the internet or other
remote sales methods, performing an age verification through an independent,
third party age verification service that compares information available from
public records to the personal information entered by the person during the
ordering process that establishes the person is 21 years of age or older.
(Prior Code, § 136.36) (Ord. 2303-95, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 19-1574, passed 6-
5-2019) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.62 WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the business of selling smoking materials
shall at all times display signs informing the public of the age restrictions
provided for herein. The sign shall be posted by every licensee at or near
every display of smoking materials and on or upon every vending machine which
offers smoking materials for sale.
   (B)   Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
“THE SALE OF SMOKING MATERIALS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW”
   (C)   The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background,
said letters to be at least one inch high.
(Prior Code, § 136.37) (Ord. 2303-95, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 19-1574, passed 6-
5-2019)
§ 136.63 MINIMUM AGE TO SELL SMOKING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful to engage, employ or permit any person less than 16
years of age to sell smoking materials.
(Prior Code, § 136.38) (Ord. 2303-95, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 19-1574, passed 6-
5-2019) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.64 PURCHASE BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase
smoking materials, or to misrepresent their identity or age, or to use any
false or altered identification for the purpose of purchasing smoking
materials. No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
(Prior Code, § 136.39) (Ord. 2303-95, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 19-1574, passed 6-
5-2019) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.65 POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to possess any
smoking materials; provided that the possession by a person under the age of 21
years under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian of such person in
the privacy of the parent’s or guardian’s home shall not be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 136.40) (Ord. 2303-95, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 19-1574, passed 6-
5-2019) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.66 CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the business of selling or otherwise
distributing, promoting or advertising smoking materials, or any employee or
agent of any such person, in the course of such person’s business, to
distribute, give away or deliver smoking materials free of charge to any person
on any right-of-way, park, playground or other property owned by the village,
any school district, any park district or any public library, or to give away
or distribute smoking materials under any circumstances where the same would be
prohibited by the Illinois Prevention of Tobacco Use by Persons under 21 Years
of Age and Sale and Distribution of Tobacco Products Act, 720 ILCS 675/1 et
seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 136.41) (Ord. 2303-95, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 19-1574, passed 6-
5-2019) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.67 VENDING MACHINES.
   Smoking materials may be sold through a vending machine only if such tobacco
products, electronic cigarettes and alternative nicotine products are not
placed together with any non-tobacco products, other than matches, in the
vending machine and the vending machine is in any of the following locations:
   (A)   Places to which persons under 21 years of age are not permitted access
at any time; and
   (B)   Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the premises
and the vending machine operation is under the direct supervision of the owner
or manager.
(Prior Code, § 136.42) (Ord. 2303-95, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 19-1574, passed 6-
5-2019) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.68 RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission of any nature which constitutes a violation of any of
the provisions of this subchapter by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any person possessing a village business license shall be
deemed and held to be the act of such licensee; and such licensee shall be
punishable in the same manner as if such act or omission had been done or
omitted by the licensee personally.
(Prior Code, § 136.43) (Ord. 2303-95, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 19-1574, passed 6-
5-2019) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.69 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   Violation of this subchapter shall constitute grounds for revocation and/or
suspension of any and all village licenses issued to the persons/premises where
such violations occur. Such revocation or suspension shall be as provided for
in the ordinance granting such license or in any other ordinance providing
procedures for the same.
(Prior Code, § 136.44) (Ord. 2303-95, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 19-1574, passed 6-
5-2019) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 136.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS OFFENSES
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
137.01   Unlawful possession of weapons
   
137.02   Exemptions to §
137.01 prohibitions
   
137.03   Unlawful sale or delivery of firearms
   
137.04   Register of sales by dealer
   
137.05   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
137.06   Defacing identification marks on firearms
   
137.07   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
Projectile Weapons
   
137.20   Definitions
   
137.21   Sale or transfer to minors
   
137.22   Possession of firing devices and projectiles
 
   
137.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Firearms and ammunition registration, see 430 ILCS 65/1 through 16-3
**** DEADLY WEAPONS ****
§ 137.01 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of weapons when
they knowingly:
      (1)   Sell, manufacture, purchase, possess or carry any bludgeon, black-
jack, slung-shot, sand-club, sand-bag, metal knuckles or other knuckle weapon,
regardless of its composition, throwing star or any knife, commonly referred to
as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike blade
as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed gas;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(1))
      (2)   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2))
      (3)   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another any firearm in a church, synagogue, mosque or other building, structure
or place used for religious worship;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2.5))
      (4)   Carry on or about their person or in any vehicle a tear gas gun
projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(3))
      (5)   Carry or possess in any vehicle or concealed on or about their
person except when on their land or in their own abode, legal dwelling or fixed
place of business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as
an invitee with that person’s permission, any pistol, revolver, stun gun or
taser or other firearm, except that this division (A)(5) does not apply to or
affect transportation of weapons that meet one of the following conditions:
         (a)   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
         (b)   Are not immediately accessible;
         (c)   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner’s identification card; or
         (d)   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(4))
      (6)   Sets a spring gun;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(5))
      (7)   (a)   Carries or possesses on or about their person, upon any
public street, alley or other public lands within the village limits, except
when an invitee thereon or therein, for the purpose of the display of such
weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or except when on their land or in
their own abode, legal dwelling or fixed place of business, or on the land or
in the legal dwelling of another person as an invitee with that person’s
permission, any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or other firearm, except
that this division (A)(7) does not apply to or affect transportation of weapons
that meet one of the following conditions:
            1.   Are broken down in a non-functioning state;
            2.   Are not immediately accessible;
            3.   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner’s identification card; or
            4.   Are carried or possessed in accordance with the Firearm
Concealed Carry Act by a person who has been issued a currently valid license
under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act.
         (b)   A STUN GUN or TASER, as used in this division (A)(7), means:
            1.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of wire
and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of disrupting
the person’s nervous system in such a manner as to render their incapable of
normal functioning; or
            2.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such
as batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out current capable of disrupting the person’s nervous system in such
a manner as to render their incapable of normal functioning.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(10))
      (8)   Sells, manufactures, delivers, imports, possesses or purchases any
assault weapon attachment or 0.50 caliber cartridge in violation of 720 ILCS 5/
24-1.9 or any explosive bullet. For purposes of this division (A)(8):
         (a)   CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed
at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the
propellant contained in such tube between the projectile and the cap; and
         (b)   EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of an ammunition
cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon
contact with the flesh of a human or an animal.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(11))
      (9)   Carries or possesses on or about their person while in a building
occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, other weapon of like character
or other instrument of like character intended for use as a weapon. For the
purposes of this division (A)(9), BILLY CLUB means a short stick or club
commonly carried by police officers which is either telescopic or constructed
of a solid piece of wood or other human-made material;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(13))
      (10)   Manufactures, possesses, sells or offers to sell, purchase,
manufacture, import, transfer or use any device, part, kit, tool, accessory or
combination of parts that is designed to and functions to increase the rate of
fire of a semi-automatic firearm above the standard rate of fire for semi-
automatic firearms that is not equipped with that device, part or combination
of parts;
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(14))
      (11)   Carries or possesses any assault weapon or 0.50 caliber rifle in
violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1.9; or
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(15))
      (12)   Manufactures, sells, delivers, imports or purchases any assault
weapon or 0.50 caliber rifle in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1.9.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(16))
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Crossbows, common or compound bows and underwater spearguns are
exempted from the definition of ballistic knife as defined in division (A)(1)
above.
      (2)   The provision of division (A)(1) above prohibiting the sale,
manufacture, purchase, possession or carrying of any knife, commonly referred
to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife, does not apply to a person who possesses a currently valid firearm
owner’s identification card previously issued in their name by the State Police
or to a person or an entity engaged in the business of selling or manufacturing
switchblade knives.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(e))
Penalty, see §
137.99
Statutory reference:
   Presence of weapon/substance in automobile evidence of possession, see 720
ILCS 5/24-1(d)
   Provisions concerning silencers on guns; machine guns; bombs; possession of
weapon in place authorized to sell intoxicating beverages or at public
gathering; possession of weapon while hooded, robed and/or masked; or
possession of weapons on school or university grounds (all of which are
felonies), see 720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(6), (7), (8) and (9) and 24-1(c),
respectively
   Violations constituting misdemeanors/felonies, imprisonment terms, see 720
ILCS 5/24(b)
§ 137.02 EXEMPTIONS TO § 137.01 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Section
137.01(A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(7) and (A)(9) do not apply to or affect any of the
following:
      (1)   Peace officers, and any person summoned by a peace officer to
assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in
assisting the officer;
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and places of employment;
      (3)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the State National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty;
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions, and guards of armored car companies, while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; and guards while actually engaged
in the performance of the duties of their employment;
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives or private alarm contractors or employed by a private security
contractor, private detective or private alarm contractor agency licensed by
the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, if their duties
include the carrying of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective,
Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004
(225 ILCS 447), while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of
their employment or commuting between their homes and places of employment. A
person shall be considered eligible for this exemption if they have completed
the required 20 hours of training for a private security contractor, private
detective or private alarm contractor, or employee of a licensed private
security contractor, private detective or private alarm contractor agency and
28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued a firearm control
card by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. Conditions for
the renewal of firearm control cards issued under the provisions of this
section shall be the same as for those cards issued under the provisions of the
Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor and
Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall be carried by the private
security contractor, private detective or private alarm contractor, or employee
of the licensed private security contractor, private detective or private alarm
contractor agency at all times when they are in possession of a concealable
weapon permitted by their firearm control card;
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to that commercial or industrial operation, while
actually engaged in the performance of their duty or traveling between sites or
properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is a member
of a security force registered with the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation; provided that the security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of
training that includes the theory of law enforcement, liability for acts and
the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered eligible for this
exemption if they have completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued
a firearm control card by the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under
the provisions of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued
under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004 (225 ILCS 447/5-5 et seq.). This
firearm control card shall be carried by the security guard at all times when
they are in possession of a concealable weapon permitted by their firearm
control card;
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the State Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
137.01(A)(4) and (A)(5) while on duty in the course of any investigation for
the Commission;
      (8)   (a)   Persons employed by a financial institution as a security
guard for the protection of other employees and property related to such
financial institution, while actually engaged in the performance of their
duties, commuting between their homes and places of employment or traveling
between sites or properties owned or operated by such financial institution,
and who, as a security guard, is a member of a security force registered with
the Department of Professional and Financial Regulation; provided that any
person so employed has successfully completed a course of study, approved by
and supervised by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation,
consisting of not less than 48 hours of training which includes theory of law
enforcement, liability for acts and the handling of weapons. A person shall be
considered to be eligible for this exemption if they have completed the
required 20 hours of training for a security officer and 28 hours of required
firearm training, and has been issued a firearm control card by the Department
of Financial and Professional Regulation. Conditions for renewal of firearm
control cards issued under the provisions of this division (A)(8) shall be the
same as for those issued under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private
Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor and Locksmith Act of 2004 (225 ILCS
447/5-5 et seq.).
         (b)   The firearm control card shall be carried by the security guard
at all times when they are in possession of a concealable weapon permitted by
their firearm control card. For purposes of this division (A)(8), FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and loan association, credit union or company
providing armored car services.
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car while actually engaged in the performance of their duties;
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to the
Peace Officer Fire Investigation Act (20 ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.);
      (11)   Investigators of the Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the Office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to § 7.06 of the
State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor’s Act (725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.);
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State’s Attorney under § 3-
9005 of the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/3-9005);
      (13)   Probation officers while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the chief judge of
the circuit for which they are employed, if they have received weapons training
according to requirements of the Peace Officer and Probation Officer Firearm
Training Act (50 ILCS 710);
      (14)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff;
      (15)   A person employed as an armed security guard at a nuclear energy,
storage, weapons or development site or facility regulated by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and training
mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; or
      (16)   Manufacture, transportation or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(15) above to possess those
weapons.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(a))
   (B)   Section 137.01(A)(1) does not apply to the purchase, possession, or
carrying of a black-jack or slung-shot by a police officer.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(d))
   (C)   Section 137.01(A)(5) and (A)(7) do not apply to or affect any of the
following:
      (1)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, while using their firearms on those target ranges;
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(f))
      (2)   Members of any club or organization organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets upon established target ranges, whether public
or private, and patrons of such ranges, while such members or patrons are using
their firearms on those target ranges;
      (3)   Duly authorized military or civil organizations while parading,
with the special permission of the Governor;
      (4)   Hunters, trappers or fishermen while engaged in lawful hunting,
trapping or fishing under the provisions of the Wildlife Code or the Fish and
Aquatic Life Code;
      (5)   Transportation of weapons that are broken down in a non-functioning
state or are not immediately accessible; and
      (6)   Carrying or possessing any pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser, or
other firearm on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as an
invitee with that person’s permission.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(b))
   (D)   Section 137.01(A)(5) and (A)(7) do not apply to or affect any parole
agent or parole supervisor who meets the qualifications and conditions
prescribed in § 3-14-1.5 of the Unified Code of Corrections (730 ILCS 5/3-14-
1.5).
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(g-6))
   (E)   Section 137.01(A)(8) does not apply to:
      (1)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United
States or the State National Guard, while in the performance of their official
duty;
      (2)   Bona fide collectors of antique or surplus military ordnance;
      (3)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance; or
      (4)   Commerce, preparation, assembly or possession of explosive bullets
by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (E)(1) above, or like organizations and persons outside the state, or
the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person exempted
in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by an
exempted manufacturer.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(g))
   (F)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this subchapter need not negate any exemptions contained in this subchapter.
The defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(h))
   (G)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to or affect the
transportation, carrying or possession of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license
with the state or the federal government where such transportation, carrying or
possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which the common carrier
is engaged. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to or affect the
transportation, carrying or possession of any pistol, revolver, stun gun, taser
or other firearm not the subject of and regulated by 720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(7),
which is unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box, shipping box or
other container by the possessor of a valid firearm owner’s identification
card.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2(i))
Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.03 UNLAWFUL SALE OR DELIVERY OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as 430 ILCS 65/1 et seq.
      HANDGUN. A firearm designed to be held and fired by the use of a single
hand, and includes a combination of parts from which a firearm can be
assembled.
      SCHOOL. A public or private elementary or secondary school, community
college, college or university.
      SCHOOL RELATED ACTIVITY. Any sporting, social, academic or other activity
for which students’ attendance or participation is sponsored, organized or
funded in whole or in part by a school or school district.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of unlawful sale or delivery of firearms
when they knowingly:
      (1)   Sells or give any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the
person to any person under 18 years of age;
      (2)   Sell or give any firearm to a person under 21 years of age who has
been convicted of a misdemeanor other than a traffic offense, or adjudged
delinquent;
      (3)   Sell or give any firearm to any narcotic addict;
      (4)   Sell or give any firearm to any person who has been convicted of a
felony under the laws of this or any other jurisdiction;
      (5)   Sell or give any firearm to any person who has been a patient in a
mental institution within the past five years. In this division (B)(5):
         (a)   MENTAL INSTITUTION means any hospital, institution, clinic,
evaluation facility, mental health center or part thereof, which is used
primarily for the care or treatment of persons with mental illness.
         (b)   PATIENT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION means the person was admitted,
either voluntarily or involuntarily, to a mental institution for mental health
treatment, unless the treatment was voluntary and solely for an alcohol abuse
disorder and no other secondary substance abuse disorder or mental illness;
      (6)   Sell or give any firearm to any person who is a person with an
intellectual disability;
      (7)   Deliver any firearm, incidental to a sale, without withholding
delivery of the firearm for at least 72 hours after application for its
purchase has been made, or delivers a stun gun or taser, incidental to a sale,
without withholding delivery of the stun gun or taser for at least 24 hours
after application for its purchase has been made. However, this division (B)(7)
shall not apply to:
         (a)   The sale of a firearm to a law enforcement officer or a person
who desires to purchase a firearm for use in promoting the public interest
incident to their employment as a bank guard, armed truck guard or other
similar employment;
         (b)   A mail order sale of a firearm from a federally licensed
firearms dealer to a nonresident of the state under which firearm is mailed to
a federally licensed firearms dealer outside the boundaries of the state;
         (c)   The sale of a firearm to a dealer licensed as a federal firearms
dealer under § 923 of the Federal Gun Control Act of 1968 (18 U.S.C. § 923); or
         (d)   The transfer or sale of any rifle, shotgun or other long gun to
a resident registered competitor or attendee or nonresident registered
competitor or attendee by any dealer licensed as a federal firearms dealer
under § 923 of the Federal Gun Control Act of 1968 at competitive shooting
events held at the World Shooting Complex sanctioned by a national governing
body. For purposes of transfers or sales under this division (7)(d), the
Department of Natural Resources shall give notice to the State Police at least
30 calendar days prior to any competitive shooting events at the World Shooting
Complex sanctioned by a national governing body. The notification shall be made
on a form prescribed by the State Police. The sanctioning body shall provide a
list of all registered competitors and attendees at least 24 hours before the
events to the State Police. Any changes to the list of registered competitors
and attendees shall be forwarded to the State Police as soon as practicable.
The State Police must destroy the list of registered competitors and attendees
no later than 30 days after the date of the event. Nothing in this division (B)
(7) relieves a federally licensed firearm dealer from the requirements of
conducting a NICS background check through the state point of contact under 18
U.S.C. § 922(t). For purposes of this division (B)(7), APPLICATION means when
the buyer and seller reach an agreement to purchase a firearm. For purposes of
this division (B)(7), NATIONAL GOVERNING BODY means a group of persons who
adopt rules and formulate policy on behalf of a national firearm sporting
organization.
      (8)   While holding any license as a dealer, importer, manufacturer or
pawnbroker under the Federal Gun Control Act of 1968, being 18 U.S.C. § 923,
manufacture, sell or deliver to any unlicensed person a handgun having a
barrel, slide, frame or receiver which is a die casting of zinc alloy or any
other nonhomogeneous metal which will melt or deform at a temperature of less
than 800°F;
      (9)   Sell or give a firearm of any size to any person under 18 years of
age who does not possess a valid firearm owner’s identification card;
      (10)   Sell or give a firearm while engaged in the business of selling
firearms at wholesale or retail without being licensed as a federal firearms
dealer under 18 U.S.C. § 923. In this division (10), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         (a)   A person ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS means a person who devotes
time, attention and labor to engaging in the activity as a regular course of
trade or business with the principal objective of livelihood and profit, but
does not include a person who makes occasional repairs of firearms or who
occasionally fits special barrels, stocks or trigger mechanisms to firearms.
         (b)   WITH THE PRINCIPAL OBJECTIVE OF LIVELIHOOD AND PROFIT means that
the intent underlying the sale or disposition of firearms is predominantly one
of obtaining livelihood and pecuniary gain, as opposed to other intents, such
as improving or liquidating a personal firearms collection; however, proof of
profit shall not be required as to a person who engages in the regular and
repetitive purchase and disposition of firearms for criminal purposes or
terrorism.
      (11)   (a)   Sell or transfer ownership of a firearm to a person who does
not display to the seller or transferor of the firearm either:
            1.   A currently valid firearm owner’s identification card that has
previously been issued in the transferee’s name by the State Police under the
provisions of the Firearm Owners Identification Card Act, 430 ILCS 65/0.01 et
seq.; or
            2.   A currently valid license to carry a concealed firearm that
has previously been issued in the transferee’s name by the State Police under
the Firearm Concealed Carry Act, 430 ILCS 66/1 et seq.
         (b)   This division (11) does not apply to the transfer of a firearm
to a person who is exempt from the requirement of possessing a firearm owner’s
identification card under § 2 of the Firearm Owners Identification Card Act,
430 ILCS 65/2. For the purposes of this section, a currently valid firearm
owner’s identification card or license to carry a concealed firearm means
receipt of an approval number issued in accordance with subsection (a-10) of §
3 or § 3.1 of the Firearm Owners Identification Card Act, being 430 ILCS 65/
3 or 430 ILCS 65/3.1, respectively.
         (c)   In addition to the other requirements of this division (B)(11),
all persons who are not federally licensed firearms dealers must also have
complied with subsection (a-10) of § 3 of the Firearm Owners Identification
Card Act by determining the validity of a purchaser’s firearm owner’s
identification card.
         (d)   All sellers or transferors who have complied with the
requirements of division (B)(11)(a) above shall not be liable for damages in
any civil action arising from the use or misuse by the transferee of the
firearm transferred, except for willful or wanton misconduct on the part of the
seller or transferor.
      (12)   Not being entitled to the possession of a firearm, deliver the
firearm, knowing it to have been stolen or converted. It may be inferred that a
person who possesses a firearm with knowledge that its serial number has been
removed or altered has knowledge that the firearm is stolen or converted.
   (C)   Division (B)(8) above shall not include firearms sold within six
months, after October 1, 1973, nor is any firearm legally owned or possessed by
any citizen or purchased by any citizen within six months after October 1,
1973, subject to confiscation or seizure under the provisions of this section.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the gift or trade of any
firearm if that firearm was legally held or acquired within six months after
October 1, 1973.
(Prior Code, § 137.03) Penalty, see §
137.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24-3
§ 137.04 REGISTER OF SALES BY DEALER.
   (A)   Any seller of firearms of a size which may be concealed upon the
person, other than a manufacturer selling to a bona fide wholesaler or retailer
or a wholesaler selling to a bona fide retailer, shall keep a register of all
firearms sold or given away.
   (B)   The register shall contain the date of the sale or gift, the name,
address, age and occupation of the person to whom the weapon is sold or given,
the price of the weapon, the kind and the purpose for which it is purchased and
obtained.
   (C)   The seller, on demand of a peace officer, shall produce for inspection
the register and allow the peace officer to inspect the register and all stock
on hand.
(Prior Code, § 137.04) Penalty, see §
137.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24-4
§ 137.05 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or
firearm ammunition when:
      (1)   They are under 18 years of age and have in their possession any
firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person;
      (2)   They are under 21 years of age, have been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent and have any
firearms or firearm ammunition in their possession;
      (3)   They are a narcotic addict and have any firearms or firearm
ammunition in their possession;
      (4)   They have been a patient in a mental institution within the past
five years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in their possession. For
purposes of this division (A)(4):
         (a)   MENTAL INSTITUTION means any hospital, institution, clinic,
evaluation facility, mental health center or part thereof, which is used
primarily for the care or treatment of persons with mental illness; and
         (b)   PATIENT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION means the person was admitted,
either voluntarily or involuntarily, to a mental institution for mental health
treatment, unless the treatment was voluntary and solely for an alcohol abuse
disorder and no other secondary substance abuse disorder or mental illness.
      (5)   They are a person with an intellectual disability and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in their possession; or
      (6)   They have in their possession any explosive bullet. For the
purposes of this division (A)(6):
         (a)   CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed
at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end thereof, with the
propellent contained in the tube between the projectile and the cap; and
         (b)   EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of an ammunition
cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon
contact with the flesh of a human or an animal.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A)(1) above prohibits a person under 18 years of
age from participating in any lawful recreational activity with a firearm, such
as, but not limited to, practice shooting at targets upon established public or
private target ranges or hunting, trapping or fishing in accordance with the
Wildlife Code (520 ILCS 5) or the Fish and Aquatic Life Code (515 ILCS 5).
(720 ILCS 5/24-3.1) Penalty, see §
137.99
Statutory reference:
   Unauthorized possession or storage of weapons on government-funded land, see
720 ILCS 5/21-6
§ 137.06 DEFACING IDENTIFICATION MARKS ON FIREARMS.
   (A)   Any person who shall knowingly or intentionally change, alter, remove
or obliterate the name of the importer’s or manufacturer’s serial number of any
firearm commits a Class 2 felony.
   (B)   A person who possesses any firearm upon which any such importer’s or
manufacturer’s serial number has been changed, altered, removed or obliterated
commits a Class 3 felony.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent a person from making repairs,
replacement of parts or other changes to a firearm if those repairs,
replacement of parts or changes cause the removal of the name of the maker,
model or other marks of identification other than the serial number on the
firearm’s frame or receiver.
   (D)   A prosecution for a violation of this section may be commenced within
six years after the commission of the offense.
(Prior Code, § 137.06) Penalty, see §
137.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24-5
§ 137.07 CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed
by the offender, any weapon seized shall be confiscated by the trial court.
   (B)   Any stolen weapon so confiscated, when no longer needed for
evidentiary purposes, shall be returned to the person entitled to possession,
if known. After the disposition of a criminal case or in any criminal case
where a final judgment in the case was not entered due to the death of the
defendant, and when a confiscated weapon is no longer needed for evidentiary
purposes, and when, in due course, no legitimate claim has been made for the
weapon, the court may transfer the weapon to the Sheriff of the County who may
proceed to destroy it, or may, in its discretion, order the weapon transferred
to the State Police for use by the crime laboratory system, for training
purposes or for any other application as deemed appropriate by the Department.
If, after the disposition of a criminal case, a need still exists for the use
of the confiscated weapons for evidentiary purposes, the court may transfer the
weapons to the custody of the State Department of Corrections for preservation.
The court may not order the transfer of the weapon to any private individual or
private organization other than to return a stolen weapon to its rightful
owner.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to violations of the
Fish and Aquatic Life Code (515 ILCS 5/1.1 et seq.) or the Wildlife Code (520
ILCS 5/1.1 et seq.) as now or hereafter amended. Confiscation of weapons for
Fish and Aquatic Life Code and Wildlife Code violations shall be only as
provided in those codes.
(Prior Code, § 137.07) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/24-6
**** PROJECTILE WEAPONS ****
§ 137.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR RIFLE. Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, BB gun,
pellet gun, air soft gun or any similar device that is not a firearm which
impels or propels a BB, pellet or similar object constructed of hard plastic,
lead, steel or other hard materials or any similar projectile with a force or
impact that is reasonably capable of causing bodily harm or property damage.
   BARREL PLUG. For a paintball gun/marker, a plug designed for the purpose of
capping off the barrel of the paintball gun/marker by pressure or otherwise
preventing the discharge of any paintball or other projectile from the
paintball gun or marker when not in use.
   BARREL SOCK. For a paintball gun/marker, a fitted device designed for the
purpose of fitting into the barrel of the paintball gun/marker in order to
prevent the discharge of any paintball or other projectile from the paintball
gun or marker when not in use.
   BLOW GUN or DART GUN. Any tube, barrel, shaft or similar device including
spear guns, which are designed, intended or used as a means to project darts,
pellets, BBs or other similar sharp or hard objects by air pressure, spring,
elastic band, expulsion of breath or by other force.
   BOW AND ARROW. Any prime equipment (i.e., any launching device and shafted
projectiles) that may be used in archery or hunting, including, but not limited
to, crossbows, bows, compound bows, arrows or darts.
   FIRING DEVICE. Any air rifle, blow gun/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball
gun/marker or slingshot.
   GASSED OFF. For a paintball gun/marker, in a state in which the force from
the pressure tank or cartridge is disconnected or shut off from the barrel of
the paintball gun/marker, whether by removing the pressure tank or cartridge,
or by tripping a device to disconnect the pressure from the pressure tank or
cartridge.
   IN LOCO PARENTIS. Standing legally in relation to a minor with parent-like
authority.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
   PAINTBALL GUN or MARKER. Any gun, pistol, spring gun, spring pistol or any
instrument that is not a firearm, which impels or propels a pellet or other
projectile constructed of plastic or other material containing paint or similar
substance.
   PRESSURE TANK or CARTRIDGE. A tank or cartridge containing carbon dioxide,
nitrogen, air or other gas, designed, intended or used to create pressure for
the firing of a projectile from a paintball gun/marker, air rifle or similar
device.
   PROJECTILE. Any pellet, whether plastic or metal, BB, dart, arrow, spear,
paintball or other similarly hard, sharp or staining object that is designed,
intended or used for the purpose of being projected by force out of or from an
air rifle, blow gun/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker or slingshot,
reasonably capable of causing bodily harm or property damage.
   SLINGSHOT. Any device of any kind, shape or size that utilizes a spring,
elastic band or similar device, alone or in conjunction with a physical act, to
propel a projectile.
(Prior Code, § 137.10) (Ord. 21-1717, passed 10-6-2021)
§ 137.21 SALE OR TRANSFER TO MINORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, lend, rent, give or otherwise
transfer to any minor a firing device, a projectile designed, intended or used
for discharge from a firing device or a pressure tank or cartridge designed,
intended or used to discharge a projectile from a firing device.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to fill for a minor any pressure tank or
cartridge with carbon dioxide, nitrogen, air or other substance designed,
intended or used in conjunction with a firing device.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, it shall be the affirmative
obligation of a person selling any firing device or projectile, or filling any
pressure tank or cartridge to make reasonable inquiry regarding the age of the
person to whom or for whom such action is being taken; and if such person does
not make reasonable inquiry regarding the age of the person for whom the action
is being taken, it shall be no defense to a charge of a violation of this
section the person charged was not aware that the person to whom or for whom
the action was taken is a minor.
   (D)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, it shall not be unlawful
for any person to:
      (1)   Sell, give, lend or otherwise transfer any of the items described
in divisions (A) and (B) above to a minor if the minor is accompanied by and
has the permission of a parent, guardian, instructor or teacher or person
standing otherwise in loco parentis to the minor; or
      (2)   Fill a pressure tank or cartridge for a minor if accompanied by a
parent, guardian, instructor or teacher, or a person standing otherwise in loco
parentis to the minor.
(Prior Code, § 137.11) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996; Ord. 21-1717, passed
10-6-2021) Penalty, see §
137.99
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
§ 137.22 POSSESSION OF FIRING DEVICES AND PROJECTILES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to possess or carry, concealed or not
concealed, any firing device or projectile, including any air rifle, blow gun/
dart gun, paintball gun/marker, slingshot or bow and arrow on or about one’s
person or within a motor vehicle, except on one’s own property, place of abode
or fixed place of business, unless:
      (1)   In the case of air rifles, it is broken down in a non-functioning
state, if possible, not immediately accessible, unloaded and enclosed in a
case, firearm carrying box, shipping box or other enclosed container;
      (2)   In the case of paintball guns/markers, it is gassed off, containing
a barrel plug or barrel sock, not immediately accessible unloaded and enclosed
in a case, shipping box or other enclosed container; and
      (3)   For bows and arrows, slingshots and blow guns/dart guns, it is not
immediately accessible, unloaded and with the firing device and projectiles in
separate enclosed in cases, shipping boxes or other enclosed containers.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to possess any air rifle, blow gun/
dart gun, slingshot, bow and arrow or paintball gun/marker at any time, except
within the minor’s own residence or when accompanied by an adult who is the
minor’s parent, legal guardian, instructor or person standing in loco parentis
or when directly and immediately supervised by any other adult with the express
permission of the minor’s parent, legal guardian, teacher, instructor or person
standing in loco parentis to the minor.
   (C)   Discharge of air rifles, blow gun/marker, bows and arrows, slingshots
and paintball guns/marker. It is unlawful for any person to discharge any air
rifle, blow gun/marker, bow and arrow, slingshot or paint ball gun/marker
within the municipal boundaries of the village at any time when:
      (1)   On public property of the village, unless such property shall have
been expressly designated and improved by the village for the purpose of
providing a range or like facility for the use of any designated firing devices
or projectiles;
      (2)   On or across any private property except when the activity is
conducted on an indoor or outdoor target range developed and approved in
accordance with the applicable requirements of Chapter 157, and subject to and
in accordance with guidelines for the particular type of range as promulgated
by the national association generally recognized as the governing body for
participation in the particular activity at issue; or
      (3)   By a minor at any time except under the direct and immediate
supervision of a parent, legal guardian, adult instructor or other person
standing in loco parentis to the minor, and only where otherwise permitted by
the provisions of this division (C).
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to represent falsely that one’s
age is 18 years or older in connection with the possession, discharge or
transfer of any firing device or projectile, including any air rifle, blow gun/
marker, slingshot, bow and arrow or paintball gun/marker.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the following
shall be unlawful under any circumstances:
      (1)   The retail sale or other transfer, possession or discharge of any
paintball containing iodine or other staining substance, except within an
indoor, controlled commercial arena or range developed and approved in
accordance with the applicable requirements of Chapter 157, and subject to and
in accordance with guidelines for the particular type of range or facility as
promulgated by the national association generally recognized as the governing
body for participation in the particular activity at issue;
      (2)   The firing of any projectile at or unreasonably close to any person
except for the discharge of paintballs in a controlled, commercial arena or
range developed and approved in accordance with the applicable requirements of
Chapter 157, and subject to and in accordance with guidelines for the
particular type of range or facility as promulgated by the national association
generally recognized as the governing body for participation in the particular
activity at issue with use of appropriate safety gear;
      (3)   The discharge of any marble, pellet, BB or other hard or sharp
projectile, other than non-staining paintballs that are commercially available
at local retail stores, from any paintball gun/marker; and
      (4)   This section shall not apply to any police officer engaged in
authorized police training or any other authorized police activity.
(Prior Code, § 137.12) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996; Ord. 21-1717, passed
10-6-2021) Penalty, see §
137.99
Cross-reference:
   Administrative warning tickets, see
Chapter 40
§ 137.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined no less than $50 nor
more than $750.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
137.01(A)(1) through (A)(5), (A)(8), (A)(10) or (A)(11) above shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. Any person who violates §
137.01(A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(9) or (A)(12) above, or of a second or subsequent
violation of §
137.01(A)(4) above, shall be prosecuted under state law. The possession of each
firearm or firearm ammunition in violation of this section constitutes a single
and separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 137.01)
   (C)   (1)   Any person convicted of unlawful sale or delivery of firearms in
violation of §
137.03(B)(10) commits a Class A misdemeanor. A second or subsequent violation
is a felony, and shall be prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   Any person convicted of any other provision of this section commits
a felony, and shall be prosecuted under state law.
(Prior Code, § 137.03)
   (D)   Violation of §
137.04 is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 137.04)
   (E)   Unlawful possession of firearms, other than handguns, and firearm
ammunition as set out in this section is punishable under §
137.99. Unlawful possession of handguns is a felony punishable under
appropriate state law. The possession of each firearm or firearm ammunition in
violation of this section constitutes a single and separate violation.
(720 ILCS 5/24-3.1)
(Prior Code, § 137.99) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988; Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-
20-1996)
CHAPTER 138: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Gambling
   
138.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
138.04   Restrictions on conduct of bingo
   
138.05   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
 
   
138.99   Penalty
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. Has the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.
   COMPUTER. Has the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.
   COMPUTER TAMPERING. Has the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-51.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill,
or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include:
      (1)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property;
      (2)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard;
      (3)   A crane game. For the purposes of this division, a CRANE GAME is an
amusement device involving skill, if it rewards the player exclusively with
merchandise contained within the amusement device proper and limited to toys,
novelties and prizes other than currency, each having a wholesale value which
is not more than $100;
      (4)   A redemption machine. For the purposes of this division, a
REDEMPTION MACHINE is a single-player or multi-player amusement device
involving a game, the object of which is throwing, rolling, bowling, shooting,
placing or propelling a ball or other object that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights into, upon or against a hole or
other target that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights, or stopping, by physical, mechanical or electronic means, a moving
object that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights into, upon or against a hole or other target that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights; provided that all of the
following conditions are met.
         (a)   The outcome of the game is predominantly determined by the skill
of the player.
         (b)   The award of the prize is based solely upon the player’s
achieving the object of the game or otherwise upon the player’s score.
         (c)   Only merchandise prizes are awarded.
         (d)   The wholesale value of prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or
tokens for single play of the device does not exceed $100.
         (e)   The redemption value of tickets, tokens and other
representatives of value, which may be accumulated by players to redeem prizes
of greater value, for a single play of the device does not exceed $100.
      (5)   Video gaming terminals at a licensed establishment, licensed truck
stop establishment, licensed large truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal
establishment or licensed veterans establishment licensed in accordance with
the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1.
   INTERNET. An interactive computer service or system or an information
service, system or access software provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server, including, but not limited to,
an information service, system or access software provider that provides access
to a network system commonly known as the internet or any comparable system or
service, and also including, but not limited to, a world-wide web page,
newsgroup, message board, mailing list or chat area on any interactive computer
service or system or other online service. ACCESS and COMPUTER have the
meanings ascribed to them in 720 ILCS 5/16D-2.
   LOTTERY. Any program or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such program or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name, excluding savings promotion raffles authorized
under 205 ILCS 5/5g, 205 ILCS 205/7008, 205 ILCS 305/42.7, § 5136B of the
National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. § 25a) or § 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (12
U.S.C. § 1463).
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. An electronic video gaming terminal or machine if
licensed and operated in compliance with the provisions of the Video Gaming Act
(230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.), the provisions of applicable regulations promulgated
from time to time by the State Gaming Board and the applicable provisions of
this code, including, but not limited to, the provisions of
Chapter 112 and
157 and §§
110.01 through
110.15.
(Prior Code, § 138.01) (Ord. 12-1021, passed 12-19-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/28-2
§ 138.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when they:
      (1)   Knowingly play a game of chance or skill for money or other thing
of value, unless excepted in division (B) below;
      (2)   Knowingly make a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any
political nomination, appointment or election;
      (3)   Knowingly operate, keep, own, use, purchase, exhibit, rent, sell,
bargain for the sale or lease of, manufacture or distribute any gambling
device;
      (4)   Contract to have or give themself or another the option to buy or
sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or other
commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it is at
the time of making such contract intended by both parties thereto that the
contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to § 8 of the Illinois
Securities Law of 1953 (815 ILCS 5/8), or by or through a person exempt from
such registration under § 8, of a put, call or other option to buy or sell
securities which have been registered with the Secretary of State or which are
exempt from such registration under § 3 of the Illinois Securities Law of 1953
(815 ILCS 5/3) is not gambling within the meaning of this division (A)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly own or possess any book, instrument or apparatus by means
of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or knowingly
possesses any money which they have received in the course of a bet or wager;
      (6)   Knowingly sell pools upon the result of any game or contest of
skill or chance, political nomination, appointment or election;
      (7)   Knowingly set up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Knowingly set up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to
sell or knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record,
document or other similar device;
      (9)   Kno wingly draft, print or publish any lottery ticket or share, or
any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the state or any other state or
foreign government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertise any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the state or any other state;
      (11)   Knowingly transmit information as to wagers, betting odds or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division (A)(11)
prohibits transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting
of sporting events or contests; or
      (12)   (a)   Knowingly establish, maintain or operate an Internet site
that permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other
thing of value by means of the Internet or to make a wager upon the result of
any game, contest, political nomination, appointment or election by means of
the Internet.
         (b)   This division (A)(12) does not apply to activities referenced in
divisions (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), (B)(8)(a), (B)(8)(b) and (B)(15) below.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of
chance, including, without limitation, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and
life or health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of the state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside the state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution or possession of video gaming terminals, as defined
in the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40), by manufacturers, distributors and
terminal operators licensed to do so under the Video Gaming Act;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo,” when conducted in accordance
with the Bingo License and Tax Act (230 ILCS 25);
      (6)   (a)   Lotteries when conducted by the state in accordance with the
Illinois Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605). This exemption includes any activity
conducted by the Department of Revenue to sell lottery tickets pursuant to the
provisions of the Illinois Lottery Law and its rules; and
         (b)   The purchase of lottery tickets through the Internet for a
lottery conducted by the state under the program established in § 7.12 of the
Illinois Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605/7.12).
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division (B)(7), an ANTIQUE
SLOT MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   (a)   Raffles and poker runs when conducted in accordance with the
Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15); and
         (b)   The purchase of raffle chances for a raffle conducted in
accordance with the Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15).
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the Charitable
Games Act (230 ILCS 30);
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois Pull
Tabs and Jar Games Act (230 ILCS 20);
      (11)   Gambling games when authorized by the Illinois Gambling Act (230
ILCS 10);
      (12)   Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed large truck stop establishment, licensed
fraternal establishment or licensed veterans establishment when conducted in
accordance with the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40);
      (13)   Games of skill or chance where money or other things of value can
be won but no payment or purchase is required to participate;
      (14)   Savings promotion raffles authorized under § 5g of the Illinois
Banking Act (205 ILCS 5/5g), § 7008 of the Savings Bank Act (205 ILCS 205/
7008), § 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act (205 ILCS 305/42.7), § 5136b of
the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. § 25a) or § 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (12
U.S.C. § 1463); and
      (15)   Sports wagering when conducted in accordance with the Sports
Wagering Act (230 ILCS 45).
   (C)   Circumstantial evidence. In prosecutions under this section,
circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in any
criminal prosecution.
(720 ILCS 5/28-1(a), (b), (d)) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling other than gambling conducted in the manner authorized by the Illinois
Gambling Act (230 ILCS 10), the Sports Wagering Act (230 ILCS 45) or the Video
Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40). No person shall knowingly permit any premises or
property owned or occupied by them or under their control to be used as a
gambling place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the Circuit Court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   The premises is declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such; and
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(720 ILCS 5/28-3) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.04 RESTRICTIONS ON CONDUCT OF BINGO.
   The conducting of bingo is subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds from bingo play must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member or employee of the sponsoring
organization may participate in the management or operation of bingo.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the game, except that if an organization
licensed under this act is associated with a school or other educational
institution, that school or institution may reduce tuition or fees for a
designated pupil based on participation in the management or operation of the
game by any member of the organization. The extent to which tuition and fees
are reduced shall relate proportionately to the amount of time volunteered by
the member, as determined by the school or other educational institution.
   (D)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded in any
single day of bingo may not exceed $2,250. The prize awarded for any one game,
including any game conducted after reaching the $2,250 limit as authorized in
this division, may not exceed $500 cash or its equivalent.
   (E)   The number of games, including regular and special games, may not
exceed 25 in any one day, except that this restriction on the number of games
shall not apply to bingo conducted at any county fair held in the state.
   (F)   The price paid for a single card under the license may not exceed $1
and such card is valid for all regular games on that day of bingo. A maximum of
five special games may be held on each bingo day, except that this restriction
on the number of special games shall not apply to bingo conducted at any county
fair held in the state. The price for a single special game card may not exceed
$0.50.
   (G)   The number of bingo days conducted by a licensee under 230 ILCS 25/
1 et seq. is limited to one per week, except as follows:
      (1)   Bingo may be conducted in accordance with the terms of a special
operator’s permit or limited license issued under 230 ILCS 25/1.3(7) or (8);
      (2)   Bingo may be conducted at any county fair held in the state under
230 ILCS 25/1.3(6); and
      (3)   A licensee which cancels a day of bingo because of inclement
weather or because the day is a holiday or the eve of a holiday may, after
giving notice to the Department of Transportation, conduct bingo on an
additional date which falls on a day of the week other than the day authorized
under the license.
   (H)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to conduct bingo only from an
organization which is also licensed as a provider of premises or exempt from
license requirements under 230 ILCS 25/1 et seq. If the organization providing
the premises is a metropolitan exposition, auditorium and office building
authority created by state law, a licensee may enter into a rental agreement
with the organization authorizing the licensee and the organization to share
the gross proceeds of bingo games; however, the organization shall not receive
more than 50% of the gross proceeds.
   (I)   No person under the age of 18 years may play or participate in the
conducting of bingo. Any person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where bingo is being played only when accompanied by their parent or
guardian.
   (J)   The promoter of bingo games must have a proprietary interest in the
game promoted.
   (K)   Raffles or other forms of gambling prohibited by law shall not be
conducted on the premises where bingo is being conducted, except that pull tabs
and jar games conducted under 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq. may be conducted on the
premises where bingo is being conducted. Prizes awarded in pull tabs and jar
games shall not be included in the bingo prize limitation.
   (L)   Organizations may be issued a special permit or limited license no
more than two times in any years. An organization holding a special operator’s
permit or a limited license may, as one of the occasions allowed by such permit
or license, conduct bingo for a maximum of two consecutive days. If an
organization conducts bingo pursuant to a limited license or special permit,
then the number of games played during each day may exceed 25, and regular game
cards need not be valid for all regular games. If only noncash prizes are
awarded during such occasions, the prize limits stated in division (A)(4) above
shall not apply; provided that the retail value of noncash prizes for any
single game shall not exceed $150.
(Prior Code, § 138.04) (Ord. 1065-88, passed 11-9-1988; Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-
20-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses for conducting of bingo, see 230 ILCS 25/1
   Penalty, see 230 ILCS 25/5
   Related provisions, see 230 ILCS 25/2
   Tax on gross proceeds of bingo games, see 230 ILCS 25/3
§ 138.05 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation and destruction by the State
Police or village authorities. As used in this section, a GAMBLING DEVICE
includes any slot machine, and includes any machine or device constructed for
the reception of money or other thing of value and so constructed as to return,
or cause someone to return, on chance to the player thereof money, property or
a right to receive money or property. With the exception of any device designed
for gambling which is incapable of lawful use, no gambling device shall be
forfeited or destroyed unless an individual with a property interest in the
device knows of the unlawful use of the device.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(a))
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited to the county
wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value integrally
related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited to the county wherein
the seizure occurs.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(b))
§ 138.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined no less than $50 nor
more than $750.
(Prior Code, § 138.99)
   (B)   Gambling, as set out in §
138.02, is a Class A misdemeanor. A second or subsequent conviction under §
138.02(A)(3) through (A)(12) is a Class 4 felony.
(720 ILCS 5/28-1(c))
(Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING, ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING AND MECHANICAL CODES
      
151.   HOUSING/PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODES
      
152.   POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITING
      
153.   RENTAL PROPERTY INSPECTIONS
      
154.   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY LICENSING AND CRIME-FREE HOUSING
      
155.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
156.   DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
      
157.   ZONING CODE
      
158.   OFFICIAL LANDMARK DESIGNATIONS
Cross-reference:
   Stormwater management, see
Chapter 57
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING, ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING AND MECHANICAL CODES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   Adoption of the 2021 International Building Code
   
150.03   Adoption of the 2021 International Residential Code
   
150.04   Adoption of the 2020 National Electrical Code
   
150.05   Adoption of 2014 Illinois Plumbing Code
   
150.06   Adoption of the 2021 International Mechanical Code
   
150.07   Adoption of the 2021 International Fuel Gas Code
   
150.08   Adoption of the International Energy Code
   
150.09   Building permit construction specifications
   
150.10   Adoption of the 2021 International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.11   Adoption of the 2015 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code
   
150.12   Adoption of the 2021 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
   
150.13   Adoption of the 2021 International Existing Building Code
   
150.14   Adoption of the Illinois Accessibility Code
Building Permits
   
150.25   Requirements
   
150.26   Permit application
   
150.27   Drawing requirements
   
150.28   Permit termination
   
150.29   Refunds
   
150.30   Permit renewal
   
150.31   Construction without permits
   
150.32   Fee schedule
   
150.33   Testing and inspection requirements
   
150.34   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention in multi-story buildings, see §§
91.45 through
91.50
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the International Building
Code, it shall be held to mean the Village of Romeoville.
   (B)   Wherever their CORPORATION COUNSEL is used in said code, it shall be
held to mean the Village Attorney.
   (C)   BUILDING/CODE OFFICIAL wherever references throughout this chapter
shall be held to the Director of Community Development, Building Commissioner
or such designee as determined by the Village President and the Village Board
of Trustees.
   (D)   I.C.C. Wherever referenced throughout this chapter, shall be held to
mean the International Code Council.
   (E)   FIRE CODE OFFICIAL. Wherever referenced throughout this chapter or the
adopted codes referring to the Fire Code, this shall be held to mean the Fire
Chief of such designee as determined by the Village President and the Village
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of the
buildings and structures, including permits and penalties, a building code
known as the “International Building Code, 2021 Edition” with all subsequent
amendments, and all its referenced standards, one copy of which has been and
now is filed in the office of the Village Clerk. The code is adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. From the date on which
this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in
the construction of all commercial and industrial buildings and other
structures therein contained within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Additions, amendments and deletions. The following sections are
revised as follows.
      (1)   Chapter 1.
         (a)   Section 101.1 Title is amended to read: “These regulations shall
be known as the Building Code of The Village of Romeoville hereinafter referred
to as ‘this code’.”
         (b)   Section 105.2 Work Exempt from Permit is amended to read:
“Building: numbers 3, 7, 8, 9, 11, and 12 are exempt from permits.”
         (c)   Section 105.8 Construction Hours adds a new section to read:
“Construction may commence between the hours of 7:00 a.m. until 8:00 p.m. for
Monday through Friday, from 8:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. on Saturday and from 9:00
a.m. until 6:00 p.m. on Sunday.”
         (d)   Section 109.2 Schedule of permit fees is amended to read: “a fee
for each plan examination, building permit, and inspections shall be paid in
accordance with Section 150.32 of this code and Chapter 42 of the Village of
Romeoville Code of Ordinances.”
         (e)   Section 109.4 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance is amended
to read: “In addition to any other fines, fees or penalties provided for by
applicable provisions of this Code, when any work for which a permit is
required under this code has begun or is completed without the required permit
having been obtained, the amount of the fee for the issuance of the required
permit under such circumstances shall be equal to the amount of the otherwise
applicable fee in cases not involving work without a permit or any other
violation of this Code, plus an additional amount calculated as follows: a) For
permits having an otherwise applicable fee of up to and including fifteen
hundred dollars ($1500.00), the additional amount added shall be equal to the
amount of the otherwise applicable permit fee; b) For permits having an
otherwise applicable fee in excess of fifteen hundred dollars ($1500.00), the
additional amount added shall be equal to fifteen hundred dollars ($1500.00),
plus twenty five percent (25%) of the amount of the otherwise applicable permit
fee.”
         (f)   Section 109.6 Refunds is amended to read: “Refunds are paid in
accordance with section 150.29 of this code.”
         (g)   Section 110.3.1.2 Approval of a Spot Survey adds a new section
to read: “a spot survey indicating the top of foundation elevations and
foundation distances to the lot lines must be submitted and approved prior to
the commencement of framing onto a foundation.”
         (h)   Section 113.3 Board of Appeals is deleted, and the following
text added: “Appeals shall be available as provided in Section 150.34 of this
Chapter.”
         (i)   Section 114.4 Violation Penalties is amended to read: “Any
person who shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to comply with
any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct, alter or repair
a building or structure in violation of an approved plan or directive of the
Building official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of
this Code, shall be subjected to fines in accordance with Section 150.99 of
this Chapter.”
         (j)   Section 115.3 Unlawful Continuance is amended to read: “Any
person, firm, corporation or entity who shall continue any work in or about any
building or structure after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as they may be directed to perform in order to remove a violation or
unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the first occurrence, a fine of not less than two hundred
and fifty dollars ($250.00) for the second occurrence, and a fine of not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and any subsequent
occurrence. As used herein, an “occurrence” shall denote any circumstance or
occasion during which work is performed in violation of the preceding sentence
within the scope of the permit issued or required to be issued for such work
under this Chapter.”
      (2)   Chapter 6. Section 603.1.2 Piping is amended to delete
“International Plumbing Code” and replace in lieu thereof the “2014 State of
Illinois Plumbing Code.”
      (3)   Chapter 11.
         (a)   1101.2 Design is amended to read: “Buildings and facilities
shall be designed and constructed to be accessible in accordance with this
code, ICC A117.1 and the State of Illinois Accessibility Code. The most
restrictive requirements shall govern.”
      (4)   Chapter 15. Section 1507.2.8.2 Ice Barrier is amended to delete the
exception in its entirety.
      (5)   Chapter 17.
         (a)   Section 1701.3 Used Materials is deleted in its entirety.
         (b)   Section 1704.2.3 State of Special Inspections is amended by
deleting the exceptions.
         (c)   Section 1705.17 Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS) is
amended by deleting exceptions 1 and 2 in their entirety.
      (6)   Chapter 18.
         (a)   Section 1809.12 Timber Footings is deleted in its entirety.
         (b)   Sections 1810.3.2.4 Timber and Section 1810.3.2.4.1 Preservative
Treatment is deleted in their entirety.
      (7)   Chapter 19.
         (a)   Section 1905.12 Cold Weather Requirements is deleted in its
entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following:
“Definitions and requirements: Cold weather defined by the American Concrete
Institute (ACI) 306 as: a period of more than three consecutive days where all
of the following occur:
The average daily temperature is less than forty (40) degrees Fahrenheit.
The air temperature is not greater than fifty (50) degrees Fahrenheit for more
than one-half of any 24 hour period.
The average daily air temperature is the average of the highest and lowest
temperatures occurring during the period from midnight to midnight.
When cold weather concrete is in effect; footings, trenches, foundations, and
piers shall be poured only on frost-free soil. The architect and/or engineer of
record shall provide to the building official a cold weather concrete outline
meeting ACI 306 requirements for review. Concrete must be protected for not
less than forty-eight (48) hours with insulating blankets.
Flatwork: After the first frost, the Building Official shall determine whether
flatwork can continue. No flatwork will be allowed outside of buildings or
garages from November 15th to April 1st without the approval of the Building
Official. Flatwork is allowed in a building or garage, as long as the inside
temperature is maintained at not less than fifty (50) degrees Fahrenheit for
not less than 48 hours.
The use of heaters that expel gases into the area above a concrete floor shall
be vented to the outside to avoid carbonation, which may cause dusting to the
concrete surface.”
         (b)   Section 1907.1 General is amended to delete the number “3-1/
2 inches (89 mm)” and in lieu thereof “4 inches (102 mm).”
      (8)   Chapter 23.
         (a)   Section 2308.5.1 Size, Height, and Spacing of Wood Studs: In the
section “Bearing Walls,” delete all references to “24” in the column
“Supporting roof and ceiling only” and the column “Supporting one floor, roof,
and ceiling” and substituting in lieu thereof “16 (406mm).”
         (b)   Section 2308.5.2 Framing Details is amended by deleting
exception 2.
         (c)   Section 2308.5.3.2 Top Plates is amended by deleting the
exception.
         (d)   Section 2308.7 Ceiling Joist and Rafter Framing is amended to
delete in the second sentence “1-inch (25 mm)” and substituting in lieu thereof
“2 inches (51 mm).”
      (9)   Chapter 29.
         (a)   Section 2902.3 Required Public Toilet Facilities is amended to
read: “Customers, patrons and visitors shall be provided with public toilet
facilities in structures and tenant spaces intended for public utilization. The
number of plumbing fixtures located within the required toilet facilities shall
be provided in accordance with the 2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code.
Employees shall be provided with toilet facilities in all occupancies. Employee
toilet facilities shall either be separate or combined employee and public
toilet facilities.”
         (b)   Section 2902.3.1 Access is amended to add at the end of the
third sentence “and the State of Illinois Accessibility Code.”
         (c)   Section 2902.3.2 Location of Toilet Facilities in Occupancies
Other than Covered Mall Buildings is amended to delete the exception in its
entirety. All other plumbing sections in Chapter 29 are deleted in their
entirety. All other plumbing requirements shall be referenced in the 2014
Illinois Plumbing Code as adopted and amended by the village.
      (10)   Chapter 30.
         (a)   Section 3001.3 Accessibility is amended to read: “Passenger
elevators are required to be accessible by Chapter 11, the requirements of ICC
A117.1-2017, the State of Illinois Accessibility Code and Chapter 91 of the
Fire Prevention Code of ordinances. The most restrictive shall govern.”
         (b)   Section 3002.4 Elevator Car to Accommodate Ambulance Stretcher
is amended to read: “Refer to Chapter 91 of the Fire Prevention Code of
Ordinances for requirements.”
         (c)   Elevators and Conveying Systems is amended to add the following
new sections:
“Section 3009 Inspections.
Section 3009.1 Periodic tests and inspections. Periodic tests shall be required
on all new and existing power elevators, and periodic inspections shall be made
of all new and existing equipment subject to the provisions of this chapter.
Section 3009.1.1 Periodic tests: Periodic tests shall be made by the Code
Official, or by an approved agency, and shall be made at the expense and
responsibility of the owner. Where such tests are not made by the Code
Official, the approved agency shall submit a detailed report of the tests to
the Code Official on approved forms not more than five (5) business days after
completion of the tests.
Section 3009.1.2 Periodic inspections: Periodic inspections shall be made by
the Code Official or by an approved agency. The fee for such an inspection/re-
inspection will incur a cost of $75.00 per inspection/re-inspection. Where such
inspections are not made by the Code Official, the approved agency shall submit
a detailed report of the inspection to the Code Official on approved forms no
later than the next business day.
   Section 3009.2 Posting a certificate of compliance: The owner or lessee
shall post the last issued certificate of compliance within the elevator car.”
      (11)   Chapter 33: Section 3305.1 Facilities Required is amended to
delete the language “International Plumbing Code” and insert “in accordance
with the Municipal and the 2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code.”
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1762, passed 3-16-2022; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.03 ADOPTION OF THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of
residential buildings and structures, including permits and penalties, a
building code known as the 2021 International Residential Code with all
subsequent amendments, and all its referenced standards for residential one-
and two-family construction, one copy of which has been and now is filed in the
Office of the Village Clerk. The code is adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein. From the date on which this section shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all
residential buildings and other structures therein contained within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Additions, amendments and deletions. The following sections are
revised as follows.
      (1)   Chapter 1.
         (a)   Section 101.l Title is amended to insert: “Village of
Romeoville.”
         (b)   Section 102.7.2 adds a new section: “Levels of work. Remodeling,
repair, alteration of existing single family, one- and two-family dwellings and
townhouses shall comply with this ordinance based on the level of work being
performed in different areas of the structure.
Definitions:
Remodeling level 1: The application of repairing drywall (without removal of
any drywall) repainting of walls and ceiling, replacing interior trim, doors,
and flooring. A permit is not required.
   Examples: Installation of new countertop or cabinets without removing any
drywall. The replacement of water closest and lavatory without removing any
drywall.
Remodeling level 2: The removal of any drywall from a wall or ceiling. The
replacement of a floor or any drywall, applications of a new interior finish.
This would include the removal and replacement of any cabinets, equipment or
fixtures on or in the wall or ceiling.
   Examples: Removal of cabinets, countertop and drywall in a kitchen.
   The removal and replacement of a water closest, lavatory, and drywall in a
bathroom. The removal of a bathtub, bathtub enclosure, shower or shower
enclosure.
Remodeling level 3: The removal of 50% or more of drywall in a structure or the
remodel costs exceed 50% or more of the replacement cost of the entire
structure caused by water damage, fire, remodeling, or an explosion. The entire
structure shall be reconstructed to all current Village of Romeoville codes
(building, mechanical, plumbing, electrical, and energy). Any room that has 50%
or more of drywall removed, that room shall be reconstructed to all current
Village of Romeoville codes.
Repair: The reconstruction or renewal of any type of an existing building for
the purpose of its maintenance.
Requirements:
Addition: An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or
structure.
Additions: all additions have to comply with current adopted village code. This
will also include any area, equipment, fixture or systems affected by the new
work. This applies to building, mechanical, electrical and plumbing additions.
All connections to existing systems have to be performed in compliance with the
new code. A new addition shall require the existing structure to have hard
wired with battery back-up smoke detectors interconnected with the new addition
required smoke detectors.
Alteration: Any construction or renovation to an existing structure other than
repair addition that requires a permit. Also, a change in a mechanical system
that involves an extension, addition or change to the arrangement, type or
purpose of the original installation that requires a permit.
Alterations: All alterations have to comply with the current code. This will
also include any area, equipment, fixture or systems affected by the new work.
This applies to building, mechanical, electrical and plumbing additions. All
connections to existing systems have to be performed in compliance with the new
code. This will not require the entire existing system to be upgraded unless it
creates an unsafe condition.
Remodeling level 1: All new finishes, equipment, fixtures, and appliances shall
comply with the current adopted village code. Any unsafe conditions shall be
corrected.
Remodeling level 2: Bedrooms, basements, living rooms, recreation rooms and
similar spaces. All interior spaces with the drywall removed shall have the
following upgraded:
   All exterior walls and ceiling spaces which are on outside walls or in
contact with an unconditioned space or area shall have insulation added to the
wall or ceiling space in compliance with the new code.
   All walls and ceiling shall have the electric system including receptacle
spacing, smoke detectors and wiring systems installed in compliance with the
new code.
   All rooms with the drywall removed shall upgrade the mechanical and duct
work system in compliance with the new code.
   All unfinished spaces or areas which had not been previously completed shall
comply with the current adopted village code when the spaces are finished.
   All connections to existing systems have to be performed in compliance with
the new code. This will not require the entire existing system to be upgrade
unless it creates an unsafe condition
   A minimum of one window in each bedroom shall comply with the requirements
for emergency escape.
   Bathroom Remodel:
All interior spaces with the drywall removed shall have the following upgraded:
   All exterior walls and ceiling spaces which are on outside walls or in
contact with an unconditioned space or area shall have insulation added to the
wall or ceiling space in compliance with the new code. This includes new
materials behind and bathtub and/or shower.
   All walls and ceiling shall have the electric system including receptacle
spacing, smoke detectors and wiring systems installed in compliance with the
new code.
All rooms with the drywall removed shall upgrade the mechanical and duct work
system in compliance with the new code. This will include ventilation of the
bathroom with exhaust fans ducted directly to the exterior.
   All unfinished bathrooms (previously roughed) which had not been completed
shall comply with the new code when the spaces are finished.
   The plumbing systems shall comply with the requirements for type and size
for all drain, waste and vent pipe.
   All connections to existing systems have to be performed in compliance with
the new code. This will not require the entire existing system to be upgraded
unless it creates an unsafe condition.
Kitchen Remodel:
All interior spaces with the drywall removed shall have the following upgraded:
   All exterior walls and ceiling spaces which are on outside walls or in
contact with an unconditioned space or area shall have insulation added to the
wall or ceiling space in compliance with the new code.
   All walls and ceiling shall have the electric system including receptacle
spacing, type of receptacles, and number of circuits and wiring systems
installed in compliance with the new code.
   All kitchens with the drywall removed shall upgrade the mechanical and duct
work system in compliance with the new code. This will include ventilation of
the kitchen with exhaust fans ducted directly to the exterior if there is
inadequate window area for proper light and ventilation.
   All unfinished kitchens (previously roughed) which had not been completed
shall comply with the new code when the spaces are finished.
   The plumbing systems shall comply with the requirements for type and size
for all drain, waste and vent pipe.
   All connections to existing systems have to be performed in compliance with
the new code. This will not require the entire existing system to be upgraded
unless it creates an unsafe condition.
Remodeling level 3: The entire structure shall be in compliance with the new
code.
Repair: All repair not classified shall have all new work performed in
compliance with the new code.”
         (c)   Section 105.2 Work Exempt from Permit is amended to delete
building numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 10.
         (d)   Section 106.1 Submittal Documents is amended to read:
“Construction documents, special inspection and structural observation programs
and other data shall be submitted in four sets with each application for a
permit.” Replace throughout “registered design professional” with “Illinois
registered design professional.”
         (e)   Section 106.1.2 Manufacturer’s Installation Instructions is
amended to read as follows: “Manufacturer’s installation instruction, as
required by this code and as required by the Building Official, shall be
available on the job site at the time of an inspection.”
         (f)   Section 106.2 Site Plan is amended by deleting the first
sentence and substitute to read as follows: “The construction documents
submitted with the application for permit shall be accompanied by a site plan
showing to scale the size and location of new construction/ improvements, and
existing structures on the site, distances from lot lines, the established
street grades, the proposed finished grades, top of foundation, elevations at
the property corners and any additional spot elevations required to indicate
drainage patterns; and it shall be drawn in accordance with an accurate
boundary survey by a registered Illinois Professional Land Surveyor.”
         (g)   Section 106.2.1 Spotted Plat of Survey adds a new section: “Upon
installation of the foundation the permit holder shall submit a spotted plat of
survey showing to scale the size and location of the new construction and
existing structures on the site, distances from lot lines, and top of
foundation drawn in accordance with an accurate boundary line survey by a
registered Illinois Professional Land Surveyor.”
         (h)   Section 106.2.2 Final Plat of Survey adds a new section: “Upon
completion of the new construction the permit holder shall submit a final plat
of survey showing to scale the size and location of all improvements, distances
from lot lines, proposed and final grades, spot elevations and elevations at
property corners, proposed and existing top of foundation, with an accurate
boundary line survey by a registered Illinois Professional Land Surveyor.”
         (i)   Section 106.4.1 As-Built Drawings adds a new section: “As-built
drawings shall be submitted upon completion of any new construction project
showing the exact location of all utility lines, major changes to the floor
plan and major deviations or changes made as field changes or an approved
design change from the original approved construction drawings. An additional
copy in a digitized format shall be submitted.”
         (j)   Section 107.5 Temporary Driveway adds a new section: “A
temporary driveway not less than a minimum of three (3) inch stone base shall
be installed after the foundation is constructed and before any further
construction shall commence.”
         (k)   Section 109.5 Construction Site Maintenance adds a new section:
“All construction sites and roads used to gain access to the construction site
shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary manner. The site and access
roads shall be free of mud, construction debris and be accessible to emergency
vehicles twenty-four (24) hours seven (7) days a week. Failure to comply shall
result in a stop work order posted on the property by the Building Official.”
         (l)   Section 109.5.l Responsibility adds a new section: “It shall be
the responsibility of the general contractor to maintain the construction site
and all access roads in accordance with section 109.5.”
         (m)   Section 112.3 Board of Appeals is deleted, and the following
text added: “Appeals shall be available as provided in Section 150.24 of this
Chapter.”
         (n)   Section 113.4 Violation Penalties is amended to read: “Any
person, firm, corporation, or entity who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall, in addition to any other fines, penalties, fees or remedies set forth
elsewhere in this Code or in applicable law, be subject to a fine not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1000.00) for
each violation. Each day on which a violation shall continue to exist shall be
deemed to constitute a separate offense under this Chapter. In addition, the
Village shall have the right to file suit to compel the demolition, repair, or
enclosure of work, buildings or structures in violation of this Chapter, to
obtain an injunction requiring compliance with this Chapter or to obtain the
recovery of costs incurred by the Village in causing compliance with this
Chapter, all as provided for by 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq. of the Illinois
Municipal Code.”
         (o)   Section 114.2 Unlawful Continuance is amended to read: “Any
person, firm, corporation or entity who shall continue to work in or about any
building or structure after having been served a stop work order, except such
work as they may be directed to perform in order to remove a violation or
unsafe condition, shall be subject to fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the first occurrence, a fine of not less than two hundred and
fifty dollars ($250.00) for the second occurrence, and a fine not less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and any subsequent occurrence. As
used herein, an “occurrence” shall denote any circumstance or occasion during
which work is performed in violation of the preceding sentence within the scope
of the permit issued or required to be issued for such work under this
Chapter.”
         (p)   Section 115 Hours of Construction adds a new section:
“Construction shall be permitted only during the hours: Monday through Friday
7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., Saturday 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and Sunday 9:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m.”
      (2)   Chapter 2.
         (a)   Section 202 Definitions is amended by adding the following
definition:
“Bedroom: A conditioned room with four (4) dry walled walls, a door and closet,
used for sleeping that shall be not less than seven (7) feet in any horizontal
dimension, not less than seventy (70) square feet, a ceiling height of not less
than seven (7) feet measured from the finished floor, electrical as required
for bedrooms in the 2020 National Electrical Code, an emergency escape and
rescue opening as required in the 2021 International Residential Code, section
R310.2., and mechanical ventilation as required in the 2021 International
Residential Code, Chapter 16.”
      (3)   Chapter 3.
         (a)   Table 301.2 (1) is amended as follows:
“Ground snow load is 30
Wind speed is 115
Seismic Design category is B
Weathering is severe
Frost line depth is 42 inches
Termite is moderate to heavy
Decay is slight to moderate
Winter design temperature is minus 4 degrees
Ice shield underlayment is required
Flood hazards Village Zoning
Air freezing index is 2000
Mean annual temperature is 50 degrees”
         (b)   Section 302.1 Exception #4 is amended to read: “Detached garages
accessory to a dwelling located within five (5) feet of a lot line are
permitted to have a roof eave projection not exceeding twelve (12) inches.”
         (c)   Section 309.1 Floor Surface is amended to add a new sentence
that reads: “If a service door opening occurs between the garage and dwelling
that door must be self-closing and weather sealed.”
      (4)   Chapter 4.
         (a)   Section 401.3 Drainage is amended to add after the last
sentence: “All dwellings and detached garages shall be equipped with gutters,
downspouts and splash blocks adequately designed and installed to accommodate
roof drainage. All roof drainage shall be discharged through this system.”
         (b)   Sections 402.1 Wood Foundations through 402.1.2 Wood Treatment
are deleted in their entirety.
         (c)   Sections 402.3 Precast Concrete and 402.3.1 are deleted in their
entirety.
         (d)   Section 403.1 General is amended by deleting the words “fully
grouted masonry,” “crushed stone footings” and “wood foundations” and adding
the following the use of wood footings or foundations are not allowed.
         (e)   Section 403.1.1 Minimum Size is amended by deleting the words
“masonry footings” in the first and last sentences in this section.
         (f)   Section 403.1.3 Sheds are added to read: “A manufactured plastic
or rubber (kit) shed that does not exceed sixty-four (64) square feet in size
is not required to be constructed on a concrete slab. Any shed that exceeds
sixty-four (64) square feet in size shall be supported by the following method:
The shed shall be anchored to a concrete slab. The perimeter of the slab shall
be not less than twelve (12) inches deep (six inches above grade and six (6)
inches below grade) by eight (8) inches in width at the bottom sloping up at a
45-degree angle to meet the bottom of a four (4) inch slab. The base course
shall be not less than four (4) inches of CA-6 mechanically compacted road mix.
The shed shall be anchored with ½ inch by ten (10) inch anchor bolts with
washers and nuts. The bolts shall extend not less than seven (7) inches into
the thickened slab, placed not more than 6 feet on center, not greater than
twelve (12) inches away from any sill plate break, not greater than twelve
inches from each corner of the structure and not less than two (2) bolts per
sill plate.”
         (g)   Section 403.1.4.1 Frost Protection is amended by deleting item
2, exceptions 2 and 3.
         (h)   Section 403.2 Footings for Wood Foundations is deleted in its
entirety.
         (i)   Section 403.3 Frost Protected Shallow Foundations is deleted in
its entirety.
         (j)   Section 404.1.7 Backfill Placement is amended by deleting “or
has been sufficiently braced to prevent damage by the backfill.” and replace
with “or braced in a manner approved by the Building Official.” Backfill shall
occur not less than ten (10) days after foundation is poured and the forms
removed.
         (k)   Section 404.1.8 Rubble Stone Masonry is deleted in its entirety.
         (l)   Section 404.2 Wood Foundation Walls is deleted in its entirety.
         (m)   Section 405.1 Concrete or Masonry Foundations is amended to
read: “Drains shall be provided around all concrete or masonry foundations that
retain earth and habitable or usable spaces located below grade. A continuous
sleeved perforated tile shall extend not less than twelve (12) inches beyond
the outside edge of the footing and rest on not less than two (2) inches of
washed gravel not less than one (1) sieve size larger than the perforation and
covered with not less than twelve (12) inches of the same material.”
         (n)   Section 405.1 is further amended by deleting the exception.
         (o)   Section 405.1.1 Precast Concrete Foundation and Section 405.2.3
Wood Foundation is amended by deleting in their entirety.
         (p)   Section 408.4 Access is amended by deleting the last sentence.
         (q)   Section 409 adds a new section: “Cold Weather Concrete
Requirements:
When the air temperature is thirty-two (32) degrees Fahrenheit, footings and
trenches shall be poured on frost-free soil. Footings and trenches shall be
covered with concrete insulating blankets for not less than forty-eight (48)
hours.
When the air temperature is thirty-two (32) degrees Fahrenheit, foundations
shall be poured and covered from footing to footing with concrete insulating
blankets for not less than forty-eight (48) hours.
Flatwork: After the first frost, the Building Official shall determine whether
flatwork shall continue. Flatwork will not be allowed from November 15th to
April 1st. Flatwork shall be allowed in basements and attached garages, when
the temperature is maintained at not less than fifty (50) degrees for forty-
eight (48) hours.
The use of heaters that expel gases in the area above a concrete floor shall be
vented to the outside to avoid carbonation, which may cause dusting to the
concrete surface.”
         (r)   Sections 504.1 Pressure Treated-Wood Floors (On Ground) is
deleted in its entirety.
         (s)   Section 506.1 General is deleting the same in its entirety and
by substituting in lieu thereof the following: “Concrete slab-on-ground floors
shall be not less than four (4) inches thick. The floor shall be reinforced
with a minimum #10 gage 6x6 wire mesh or equivalent. Exception: Crawl space
floors shall consist of not less than two (2) inches of concrete on a vapor
retarder as specified in 506.2.3. If plumbing fixtures are located on the floor
directly above the crawlspace area, a floor drain shall be installed per the
2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code.”
         (t)   Section 506.2.1 Fill is amended by removing the word “sand” in
the paragraph.
         (u)   Section 506.2.2 Base is amended to read: “A four (4) inch base
course consisting of CA-6 type gravel shall be placed and machine compacted on
all slabs. The exception is deleted in its entirety.”
      (5)   Chapter 6.
         (a)   Table 602.3(1) is amended by deleted in the “Number and Type of
Fasteners” column any and all references to staples. Staples are not allowed to
be used for any wall construction.
         (b)   Section 602.3.2 Top Plate is amended to add a sentence at the
end of the paragraph to read: “The top plate must break over the stud. The
exceptions are deleted in their entirety.”
         (c)   Section 602.5 Interior Nonbearing Walls is amended to read:
“Interior nonbearing walls shall be constructed with studs sixteen (16) inches
on center. Interior nonbearing walls shall be fire blocked in accordance with
Section 602.8.”
         (d)   Section 602.7.4 Nonbearing Walls is amended by deleting the last
sentence in the paragraph.
         (e)   Section 602.8 Fire Blocking Required is amended by adding at the
end of the sentence “and the approval from the Building Official.”
         (f)   Section 606.1.l Professional Registration Not Required is
amended to read: “When the empirical design provisions of ACI 530/ASCE 5/TMS
402 Chapter 5 or the provision of this section are used to design masonry,
project drawings, typical details and specifications are required to bear the
seal of a State of Illinois licensed architect or structural engineer.”
         (g)   Section 610.1 General is amended by requiring the “drawings,
details and specifications shall bear the seal of a State of Illinois licensed
architect or structural engineer responsible for the design.”
      (6)   Chapter 7.
         (a)   Section 703.3.1 and Table 703.3(1) are amended by deleting any
and all references to the use of staples for fasteners. Staples are not allowed
for use in any wall construction.
         (b)   Section 703.3.2 Staple Attachment is deleted in its entirety.
      (7)   Chapter 8. Section 801.3 Roof Drainage is amended to read: “All
dwellings and detached garages shall have a controlled method of water disposal
from roofs (gutters and downspouts) that will collect and discharge roof
drainage to the ground surface not less than five (5) feet from the foundation
walls or to an approved drainage system.”
      (8)   Chapter 9.
         (a)   Section 903.4.1 Overflow Drains and Scuppers is amended by
deleting the words “International Plumbing Code” in the last sentence and
substituting in lieu thereof “the 2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code.”
         (b)   Section 905.1.2 Ice Barrier is amended by deleting the exception
in its entirety.
      (9)   Chapter 10.
         (a)   Section 1004.1.1 Insulated Fire Boxes adds a new section to
read: “When a factory-built fireplace is install on an outside wall, the framed
cavity surrounding the firebox shall be insulated in the same manner as the
adjacent wall areas. A minimum of 5/8” type X gypsum board shall be installed
over combustible materials extending from the bottom of the firebox to the
required fire stop located above the appliance.”
         (b)   Section 1005.4.1 Chimney Enclosure adds a new section to read:
“Portions of the chimney which pass through habitable spaces and closets shall
be enclosed in a 5/8” type X gypsum board chase to avoid personal contact and
damage to the chimney.”
         (c)   Section 1005.4.2 Insulated Chase adds a new section to read:
“When a fireplace chase is located on an outside wall or adjacent to an
unheated area, it shall be insulated and fire stopped in the same manner as the
adjacent walls. The insulation shall be covered with 5/8” type X gypsum board.”
      (10)   Chapter 11. Chapter 11 is amended by deleting in its entirety and
substituting in lieu thereof the following: “The 2021 International Energy
Conservation Code with the State of Illinois amendments as adopted by the
Village of Romeoville.”
      (11)   Chapter 12. Section M1201.1 Scope is amended by revising the first
sentence to read: “The provisions of Chapter 12 through 24 and applicable
SMACNA, ASHRAE, NIMA, ADC standards and the 2021 International Mechanical Code
shall regulate the design, installation, maintenance, alteration, and
inspection of mechanical systems that are permanently installed and utilized to
provide control of environmental conditions within buildings. The most
restrictive shall govern.”
      (12)   Chapter 13.
         (a)   Section M1305.1.2 Appliances in Attics is amended by deleting in
its entirety. Appliances shall not be installed in attics.
         (b)   Section M1305.1.3 Appliances under Floors is amended by deleting
in its entirety. Appliances shall not be installed under floors.
      (13)   Chapter 14.
         (a)   Section M1405.1 General, Section 1406.1 General, Section 1406.2
Clearances and Section 1407.1 General are amended to delete the phase “Chapters
33 through 42 of this code” and substituting in lieu thereof the following:
“the applicable provisions of the 2020 National Electrical Code.”
         (b)   Section M1416 Unvented Room Heaters and Fireplaces adds a new
section to read: “Unvented fuel-fired room heaters and fireplaces are
prohibited as adopted by the Village of Romeoville.”
      (14)   Chapter 15. Section M1502.4.2 Duct Installation is amended by
changing the last sentence to read: “Exhaust ducts shall not be joined with
screws or similar fasteners, all connections shall be taped with UL 181 and
each vertical riser shall have an accessible cleanout in the duct exhaust
system.”
      (15)   Chapter 16.
         (a)   Section M1601.1 Duct design is amended to read: “Duct systems
serving, heating, cooling, and ventilation equipment shall be fabricated in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, SMACNA, NAIMA, ADC, and ASRAE
standards, ACCA manuals, D, J, and S.”
         (b)   Section M1601.1.1 Above-Ground Duct Systems is amended by
deleting condition #7 and its subsections in their entirety and substituting in
lieu thereof the following: “Stud wall cavities and the spaces between the
floor joists shall not be used for air plenums serving habitable spaces. Supply
and return air shall be conveyed in a ducted system.”
         (c)   Section M1601.4.4 Support is amended by deleting the last
sentence and substituting in lieu thereof the following: “Nonmetallic ducts
shall be supported in accordance with manufacturer’s installation instruction,
except that flexible ducts shall be supported at intervals not exceeding 5 feet
horizontally and 6 feet vertically. Hangers or other material supporting
flexible ducts shall not as a result of their use, reduce the internal diameter
of the duct.”
      (16)   Chapter 20.
         (a)   Section M2004.1 General is amended to delete in its entirety and
substitute in lieu thereof the following: “Water heaters used to supply both
potable hot water and hot water for space heating shall be installed in
accordance with Chapter 24, the manufacturer’s installation instructions, the
2021 International Fuel Gas Code, and the 2014 State of Illinois Plumbing
Code.”
         (b)   Section M2005.1 General shall be amended to delete the first and
second sentence in their entirety and by substituting in lieu thereof the
following: “Water heaters shall be installed in accordance with Chapter 24, the
manufacturer’s installation instructions, the 2021 International Fuel Gas Code
and the 2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code.”
         (c)   Section M2005.3 Electric Water Heaters is amended to read:
“Electric water heaters shall also be installed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the 2020 National Electrical Code.”
      (17)   Chapter 24. Chapter 24 is amended by where there is a conflict
between this chapter and the 2021 International Fuel Gas Code as adopted and
amended by the village, the most restrictive shall govern.
      (18)   Chapter 25 through 33. Chapters 25 through 33 are amended by
deleting in their entirety and by substituting in lieu thereof the following:
“See the 2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code as adopted and amended by the
Village.”
      (19)   Chapter 34 through 43. Chapters 34 through 43 are amended by
deleting in their entirety and by substituting in lieu thereof the following:
“See the 2020 National Electrical Code as adopted and amended by the Village of
Romeoville.”
      (20)   Appendix AM. Appendix AM shall be adopted.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.04 ADOPTION OF THE 2020 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of the
buildings and structures, including permits and penalties, an electrical code
known as the National Electrical Code, being particularly the 2020 edition,
with all subsequent amendments, of which not less than one copy has been and
now are filed in the Office of the Village Clerk. The code is adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. From the date on which
this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling the
construction of all buildings and other structures therein contained within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Additions, amendments and deletions. The following sections are
revised as follows.
      (1)   Article 90.7 Examination of Equipment for Safety: “For specific
items of equipment and materials referred to in this Code, examinations for
safety made under standard conditions provide a basis for approval where the
record is made generally available through promulgation by organizations
properly equipped and qualified for experimental testing, inspections of the
run of goods at factories, and service-value determination through field
inspections. This avoids the necessity for repetition of examinations by
different examiners, frequently with inadequate facilities for such work, and
the confusion that would result from conflicting reports on the suitability of
devices and materials examined for a given purpose.
      It is the intent of this Code that factory-installed internal wiring or
the construction of equipment need not be inspected at the time of installation
of the equipment, except to detect alterations or damage, if the equipment has
been listed by a qualified electrical testing laboratory that is recognized as
having the facilities described in the preceding paragraph and that requires
suitability for installation in accordance with this Code.
(1)   Article 90.7A The NEC, along with OSHA and the U.S. Department of Labor,
require all industrial machines and equipment to be tested and listed by NRTL.
   Machines that are custom made or made by a manufacturer that no longer
exists or that are constructed on site for a specific use may be inspected by a
third party “Licensed Electrical Engineer” to determine that it is safe for
use. This engineer may provide a letter to the Municipal Building Department,
or AHJ, with his/her stamp on it, stating that he/she inspected the machine for
electrical safety and has determined that it is safe to operate. This is an
acceptable method of field certification. This letter is to be kept on file on
site and at the municipality/AHJ office.”
      (2)   New section added 90.8(A)(1) Future Expansion: “New panelboards
shall be designed for future expansion. They shall not be filled to more than
80% of their available breaker space.”
      (3)   New section added 90.8(B)(1): Number of Circuits in Enclosures:
“The maximum number of overcurrent devices in a panelboard is 42.”
      (4)   Article 90.8(C) Wire Planning add the following: “All changes of
services will require the installation of smoke and carbon monoxide detectors.
All new detectors shall be installed in hard pipe in series.”
      (5)   Article 110.5 is hereby revised to read as follows:
“Article 110.5 Conductors. Conductors used to carry current in this code shall
be of copper. Where the conductor material is not specified, the material and
the sizes given in this Code shall apply to copper conductors.”
      (6)   New section added Article 210.8(A)(2): “The receptacle for the
garage opener is not required to be ground fault protected.”
      (7)   New section added Article 210.8(G) Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter
Protection for Personnel is amended to read: “All 125-volt through 250-volt
receptacles supplied by a single-phase branch circuit rated 150 or less to
ground, 50 amps or less, and all receptacles supplied by three phase branch
circuits rated 150 volts to ground, 100 amps or less, installed in slabs or
floors shall be ground-fault protected. 150 volts or less to ground, 50 amps or
less, and all receptacles supplied by three-phase branch circuits. Rated 150
volts to the ground, 100 amps or less, installed in slabs or floors shall be
ground-fault protected.”
      (8)   Article 210.63(A)(1): Equipment Requiring Servicing: “The following
text is added to the presently existing Article 210.63: A service receptacle
shall be mounted to furnace along with disconnect switch in residential
dwellings.”
      (9)   Article 210.52(G)(1): Basements, Garages, and Accessory Buildings:
“All attached and detached garages shall have not less than one receptacle
outlet installed in each vehicle bay and not more than 1.7m (5.5ft.) above the
floor. The exception under (G)(1) of this section has been deleted from the
code.”
      (10)   Article 210.52(J): adds a new location for outlets: “Not less than
one (1) outlet per wall shall be provided for commercial offices.”
      (11)   Article 210.70(A)(2)(5): Lighting Outlets Required: the following
text is added to the presently existing Article 210.70:
“A service light shall be installed within four (4) feet of a furnace at the
ceiling or wall and from a different circuit.”
      (12)   Article 225.27: add a new section Secondary Feeders: “Secondary
feeders from utility transformers to buildings. When installed underground
beneath parking lots and paved drives shall be encased in a minimum of 2”
concrete, 30” below grade minimum, and marked either with coloration of
concrete or warning tape at 12” from grade.
There is to be only one electric utility service meter allowed for single
family dwellings.”
      (13)   Article 230.43 Types of Wiring Methods for Service Entrance
Conductors 600 Volts, Nominal, or Less is hereby revised to read as follows:
“Wiring Methods for 600 Volts, Nominal, or Less. Service-Entrance conductors
shall be installed in accordance with the applicable requirements of this code
covering the type of wiring method used and shall be limited to the following
methods:
   i.   Rigid metal Conduit
   ii.   Intermediate metal conduit
   iii.   Wireways
   iv.   Busways
   v.   Auxiliary gutters
   vi.   Rigid nonmetallic conduit (limited to underground applications)
   vii.   Cablebus
   viii.   Mineral-Insulated, metal-sheathed cable (limited to fire pumps or
hazardous locations only)
   ix.   Flexible metal conduit not over 1.8 m (6 ft.) long or liquid tight
flexible metal conduit over 1.8 m (6 ft.) long between raceways, or between
raceway and service equipment, with equipment bonding jumper routed with the
flexible metal conduit or the liquid tight metal conduit according to the
provisions of 250.103(A), (B), (C), and (E).”
      (14)   Article 230.70(A)(1) is hereby deleted from this code as adopted
by the village and replaced with the following language:
“Article 230.70 - (A)(1) Readily Accessible Location. The main circuit breakers
or fused service disconnecting means shall be installed at a readily accessible
location either outside of a building or structure, or in the basement of 1st
floor area within the main wall of the building opposite of meter not to exceed
5 ft from the point of entrance of the service conductors.”
      (15)   Article 230.90 Service Equipment Overcurrent Protection. Exception
number 2 is hereby deleted from this code as adopted by the village.
      (16)   Article 240.4 B is hereby deleted and replaced with the following
language:
“Article 240.4 B Protection of Conductors. Devices Rated 800 Amperes or Less.
The ampacity of the conductors it protects shall be equal to or greater than
the rating of the overcurrent device defined in 240.6.”
      (17)   Article 240 Circuit Breakers: “the use of mini tandem and
Piggyback type breakers will not be acceptable. Only one circuit breaker shall
be installed per panel per bus space.”
      (18)   Insert Article 250.118(15): “A copper equipment grounding
conductor to be supplied with all feeder and branch circuits sized in
accordance with NEC 250.122 (A) & (B) for all raceways in Commercial and
Industrial Installation.”
      (19)   Article 300.11(A)(3) Securing and Supporting: “In commercial and
Industrial Buildings, roof decking shall not be used as a support for raceways,
boxes, enclosures, fixtures, luminaires, tie wires or hangers.”
      (20)   Article 312.8(A)(4) Splices, Taps, and Feedthrough Conductors:
“Devices that are permitted to be tapped on the line side of the service
disconnect, per 230.82, shall not be tapped on feeders in an overhead meter
enclosure. Taps may be permitted when lug adapters are installed on the load
side of the meter to permit an additional wiring termination point. Taps are
allowed in the service feeders in an underground meter enclosure.”
      (21)   Article 314.23(I) Luminaire Support: “When luminaires are
supported from the bar joist, the supports shall be connected to the top member
of the bar joist.”
      (22)   Article 320.10: Armored Cable: Type AC Uses Permitted is hereby
revised as follows: “Type AC cable shall be permitted for remodeling only and
to be fished in concealed walls only.”
      (23)   Article 326: Integrated Gas Spacer Cable: “Type IGS is hereby
deleted from this Code as adopted by the Village.”
      (24)   Article 330: Metal-Clad Cable: Type MC uses permitted as follows:
“Type MC cable shall be permitted for remodeling only and to be fished in
concealed walls only.”
      (25)   Article 332.10: Mineral-Insulated, Metal-Sheathed Cable: Type MI
Uses Permitted is hereby revised as follows: “Type MI cable shall be permitted
for fire pumps and for hazardous locations only.”
      (26)   Article 334: Nonmetallic-Sheathed Cable: Types NM, NMC, and NMS
are hereby deleted from this Code as adopted by the Village.
      (27)   Article 338: Service-Entrance Cable: Types SE and USE is hereby
deleted from this code as adopted by the village.
      (28)   Article 340: Underground Feeder and Branch-Circuit Cable: Type UF
cable is hereby deleted from this code as adopted by the village.
      (29)   Article 352.10 delete the article and insert Uses permitted the
use of RNC shall be permitted in accordance with (A) and (B).
“(A)   Corrosive influences RNC shall be permitted in locations subject to
severe corrosive influences as covered in Article 300.6 and where subject to
chemicals for which the materials are specifically approved.
(B)   Underground installations RNC shall be permitted for underground
installations per Articles 300.5 and 300.50 horizontal only.”
      (30)   Article 358.10(B): EMT - Corrosion Protection is hereby revised to
read as follows: “Ferrous or nonferrous EMT, elbows, couplings, and fittings
shall be permitted for installation in areas subject to severe corrosive
influences where protected by corrosion protection and judged suitable for the
condition.”
      (31)   Article 358.12(3): EMT Use Not Permitted is hereby revised to read
as follows:
         “a)   In cinder concrete or cinder fill
         b)   Outdoors in wet locations
         c)   Not to be installed for direct burial
         d)   Not to be installed in concrete (interior or exterior)”
      (32)   Article 362: Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing: Type ENT is hereby
deleted from this code as adopted by the village.
      (33)   Article 382: Nonmetallic Extensions is hereby deleted from this
code as adopted by the village.
      (34)   Article 393 - Low Voltage Suspended Ceiling Power Distribution
Systems is deleted in its entirety.
      (35)   Article 394: Concealed Knob-and-Tube Wiring is hereby deleted from
this code as adopted by the village.
      (36)   Article 396: Messenger Supported Wiring is hereby deleted from
this code as adopted by the village.
      (37)   Article 398: Open Wiring on Insulators is hereby deleted from this
code as adopted by the village.
      (38)   Article 408.20(A): “All floor standing switchboards and panel
boards to be elevated on a six (6) inch concrete platform sized to the length,
width, and depth of the equipment.”
      (39)   Article 408.36 Overcurrent Protection is amended by adding a
sentence at the end of the paragraph that reads: “A 2 position (mini-breaker)
single pole circuit breakers shall not be allowed in a panelboard.”
      (40)   Article 410.1.6(A)(4) Luminaires in Clothes Closets add the
following: “all clothes closets shall have a luminaire installed in compliance
with this article.”
      (41)   Article 410.36(B) Means of Support- Suspended Ceilings: Amended to
read: “2’ x 2’ and 2’ x 4’ fixtures shall be supported by not less than two
wires, at opposite cross corners of a fixture, from the building structure.”
      (42)   Article 410.4.8(A) Luminaire Wiring: “In Line Fuses: Provide in
line fuses inside hand holes for outdoor lighting poles for parking lots and
drives.”
      (43)   Article 450.3 add new section (D): “Disconnecting Means: A switch
or circuit breaker that simultaneously opens all ungrounded conductors of the
circuits shall be installed within sight of each transformer or motor location
for disconnecting that transformer or motor. The conductors feeding the
disconnecting device shall be equal to or greater than the ampacity of the fuse
or circuit breaker protecting that transformer or motor. The overcurrent device
protecting a motor shall comply with the requirements from Article 430.”
      (44)   Article 604 Manufactured Wiring Systems is hereby deleted from
this code as adopted by the village.
      (45)   Article 605 Office Furnishings delete this section in its
entirety. Office furnishings or cubicles shall not be pre-wired.
      (46)   Article 705.11(A) Output Rating: amended to read: “The sum of the
power source continuous current output ratings on a service, other than those
controlled in accordance with 705.13, shall not exceed the ampacity of the
service conductors or the overcurrent device protecting the service.”
      (47)   Articles 725, 760, 770, 800, 805, 810, 820, 830 and 840: The
following text is added to the existing articles:
“All low voltage cables shall be installed at 90-degree angles and not to be
run over electric-discharge luminaries (lighting fixtures). For commercial and
industrial installations cables, shall be installed in EMT conduit where
concealed in walls until accessible open ceiling areas. Where surface-mounted
on walls EMT, conduit shall be used for protection of cables to a height of
ceiling trusses.
Low voltage cables to each multi-group of workstations shall be bundled
together. Low voltage systems from the same discipline shall be bundled
together separately and independently of other systems.
All low voltage system cables shall be UL labeled and listed for air plenum use
and approved for the purpose by the applicable code authority.
Provide conduits above ceilings for all low voltage system cables wherever low
voltage system cables would be inaccessible (not above lay-in ceilings) after
installation.
Provide conduits for low voltage cables above drywall or plaster ceilings, to a
point above accessible ceilings.
Regardless of the type of areas that the low voltage system cables and/or
conductors are being installed or of the type of cables and/or conductors being
used, the following installation methods for open type wiring shall be in
strict compliance.
      a.   All low voltage system cables, conductors, etc., shall be installed
in a neat workmanship manner.
      b.   If, in the opinion of the applicable code authority, the low voltage
system cables and/or conductor system is not installed in a neat and
workmanship manner the low voltage system cables or conductor system shall be
replaced.
      c.   All low voltage system cables and/or conductors shall be supported
using metal hangers (such as bridal rings, etc.) metal clips, cable trays,
threaded rod with Unistrut, etc. to building structural members.
      d.   The method of using “wire” to support the low voltage system cables
and/or conductor wiring system is not acceptable.
      e.   The method of using the suspension system that is installed to
support the ceiling system shall not be used or employed to support the low
voltage system cables and/or conductor installation and will not be accepted.
      f.   All low voltage cable systems and/or conductors shall be supported
at intervals not to exceed five feet apart.
In all new and existing residential subdivisions, the developer or property
owner shall coordinate the installation of electric, phone, cable TV and gas
with appropriate utilities. The installation shall be underground parallel to
the rear yard lot line not less than two (2) feet from said lot line (but
otherwise as close to said lot line as is reasonably possible) and along the
side yard lot line not less than two (2) feet from said lot line (but otherwise
as close to said lot line as is reasonably possible) until perpendicular to the
connection point at the building and at the shortest possible distance from the
building. No utilities will be permitted to run across lot, and shall in all
cases be required to be located to the maximum possible extent within expressly
granted and delineated easements appearing of record. Where a Village-owned
utility such as water, storm sewer or sanitary sewer is present within the
easement, the utility shall be placed within the easement as far as practicable
from the Village’s utility and in all cases a minimum of four feet from the
utility and shall be placed in easement on the opposite side of the lot line
where possible. The plat of survey, architectural drawings and specifications
submitted for permit review must indicate the proposed location of all
utilities.”
      (48)   Registration for Electrical Contractors:
“Definition - The term “Electrical Contractor” shall be understood to mean any
person engaged in business of installing or altering by contract electrical
equipment for the utilization of electricity supplied for any purpose. Not
including equipment installed for or by public utilities which are under the
jurisdiction of the Illinois Commerce Commission.
         1.   Registration - It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
the business of electrical contractor as defined above, without being
registered, bonded, and insured with the Village of Romeoville.
         2.   Property Homeowner - The provisions herein shall not prohibit the
owner of a single-family dwelling, townhouse or one- and two-family dwellings
from personally doing his/her own electrical work except for installing a new
service or relocating an existing service. An owner of a commercial/industrial
or retail building shall not install his or her own electrical work.”
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 06-0428, passed 9-20-2006; Ord. 08-0646, passed 4-16-2008; Ord.
11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed
12-7-2022)
§ 150.05 ADOPTION OF 2014 ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of the
buildings and structures, including permits and penalties, a plumbing code
known as the 2014 Illinois Plumbing Code, with all subsequent amendments, of
which not less than one copy has been filed in the Office of the Village Clerk.
The code is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
From the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof
shall be controlling the construction of the buildings and other structures
therein contained within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Additions, amendments and deletions. The following sections are
revised as follows. All fees specified in the Illinois Plumbing Code shall be
superseded and replaced by those set forth in §
150.29 and
Chapter 43.
      (1)   The utility meter (water meter) shall be located within the
building. Amends section 890.1190-B. The first sentence to be deleted.
      (2)   Water service pipe sizing. Water service piping from the street
main into the building shall be a minimum size of 1 (one) inch in diameter and
type K copper. Amends section 890.1200-A.
      (3)   Section 890, appendix A: Materials approved for building drainage/
vent pipe:
   2)   Brass pipe
   3)   Cast iron pipe
   4)   Chlorinated Polyvinyl Chloride (CPVC) only for chemical waste drainage
systems
   5)   Copper/Copper alloy
   6)   Copper/Copper alloy tubing- type K, L or M
   7)   Galvanized steel pipe
   8)   Glass fiber borosilicate
   9)   High silicone content cast iron pipe
   11)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe and fittings
   14)   Solder
   15)   Stainless steel - types 304 and 316L
   16)   Stainless steel buttweld fittings
   17)   Stainless steel flanges
   18)   Identification of piping systems
   Delete #1, #10, #12 and #13.
      (4)   Section 890, Appendix A: Materials approved for building sewer:
   7)   Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) - White and SDR26 - green
Delete #1, #2, #3, #4, #5, #6, #8, #9, #10 and #11
      (5)   Section 890, Appendix A: Materials approved for water service
piping:
   3)   Cast iron (ductile iron) water pipe for commercial use only 2” inches
or larger
   5)   Copper/Copper alloy pipe
   6)   Copper/Copper alloy tubing
Delete #1, #2, #4, #7, #8, #9, #10, #11, #12, #13, #14 and #15
      (6)   Section 890, Appendix A: Materials approved for water distribution
piping:
   1)   Brass pipe
   3)   Copper/Copper alloy pipe
   4)   Copper/Copper alloy tubing
   6)   Galvanized steel pipe
   10)   Lead free solder
   11)   Welded copper water tube
   12)   Lead free solder
Delete #2, #5, #7, #8 and #9.
Toilet Facilities for Workers - ANSI Z43-2005 Standard Section 311, Toilet
facilities shall be provided for construction workers and such facilities shall
be maintained in a sanitary condition. Construction workers toilet facility of
the non-sewer type shall conform to ANSI 4.3 2005.
Portable units cannot be stored on Village of Romeoville property. They must be
on private property.
2021 International Building Code, Section 2902.3, Required Public Toilet
Facilities adds a new section to read: Customers, patrons and visitors shall be
provided with public men’s and women’s toilet facilities in structures and
tenant spaces intended for public utilizations. The accessible route to public
facilities shall not pass-through kitchens, storage rooms, closets or similar
spaces. Employees shall be provided with toilet facilities in all occupancies.
Employee toilet facilities shall be both separate or combined employee and
public toilet facilities.
2021 International Building Code, Section 2902.3.2 Location of Toilet
Facilities in Occupancies other than covered mall buildings. In occupancies
other than covered malls, the required public and employee toilet facilities
shall be located not more than one story above or below the space required to
be provided with toilet facilities and the path of travel to such facilities
shall not exceed a distance of 500 feet (152m). The exception is deleted in its
entirety.
(Prior Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.06 ADOPTION OF THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of the
buildings and structures, including permits and penalties, a mechanical code
known as the 2021 International Mechanical Code, of which not less than one
copy has been and is filed in the Office of the Village Clerk. The code is
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. From the date
on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling the construction of all buildings and other structures therein the
corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Additions, amendments and deletions. The following sections are
revised as follows.
      (1)   Chapter 1.
         (a)   Section 101.1 Title Insert: These regulations shall be known as
the Mechanical Code of the Village of Romeoville, hereinafter referred to as
“this code.”
         (b)   Section 102.3.1 Equipment Log adds a new section: “An equipment
log must be maintained on all cooler and freezer units showing date and time of
start-up for each unit, length of time taken by each unit to reach correct
temperature and five (5) consecutive days showing temperature was maintained.
This log shall be available to the inspector at time of the final.”
         (c)   Section 106.4.3 Expiration is amended to delete the language
“180 days” and in two locations insert in lieu thereof “365 days.”
         (d)   Section 109.4 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance is amended
to read: “Any person, firm, corporation, or entity that commences work on a
mechanical system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject
fines, penalties and fees set forth in Section 150.32 of this Chapter.”
         (e)   Section 115.4 Violation Penalties is amended to read: “Any
person, firm, corporation, or entity who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall, in addition to any other fines, penalties, fees or remedies set forth
elsewhere in this Code or in applicable law, be subject to a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1000.00) for each violation. Each day on which a violation shall continue to
exist shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense under this Chapter. In
addition, the Village shall have the right to file suit to compel the
demolition, repair, or enclosure of work, buildings or structures in violation
of this Chapter, to obtain an injunction requiring compliance with this Chapter
or to obtain the recovery costs incurred by the Village in causing compliance
with this Chapter, all as provided for by 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq. of the
Illinois Municipal Code.”
         (f)   Section 113.4 Stop Work Orders is amended to read: “Any person,
firm, corporation, or entity who violates any provision of this Chapter shall,
in addition to any other fines, penalties, fees or remedies set forth elsewhere
in this Code or in applicable law, be subject to a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1000.00) for
each violation. Each day on which a violation shall continue to exist shall be
deemed to constitute a separate offense under this Chapter. In addition, the
Village shall have the right to file suit to compel the demolition, repair, or
enclosure of work in buildings or structures in violation of this Chapter, to
obtain an injunction requiring compliance with this Chapter or to obtain the
recovery costs incurred by the Village in causing compliance with this Chapter,
all as provided for by 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq. of the Illinois Municipal
Code.”
         (g)   Section 114.3 Board of Appeals is deleted, and the following
text added: “The Appeals Board shall consist of the Village Manager, Director
of Community Development and the Fire Chief or their designee.”
      (2)   Chapter 2. Section 201.3 Terms Defined in Other Codes is amended to
delete “International Plumbing Code” and insert in lieu thereof “2014 Illinois
State Plumbing Code.”
      (3)   Chapter 3.
         (a)   Section 301.11 Plumbing Connections is amended to delete
“International Plumbing Code” and insert in lieu thereof “2014 Illinois State
Plumbing Code.”
         (b)   Section 306.3 Appliances in Attics is amended to delete the
exception in its entirety.
         (c)   Section 306.4 Appliances Under Floors is amended to delete the
exception in its entirety.
         (d)   Section 309.2 Thermostats adds a new section: “All thermostats
must be addressed along with the mechanical equipment it controls. The label
must be on both the unit and thermostat cover.”
      (4)   Chapter 5.
         (a)   Section 504.4 Exhaust Installation is amended by deleting the
third sentence in the paragraph and substituting in lieu thereof the following:
“Ducts shall not be connected or installed with sheet metal screws or
fasteners. All connections shall be sealed with UL 181 tape.”
         (b)   Section 504.5 Dryer Exhaust Duct Power Ventilators is amended by
deleting this section in its entirety.
         (c)   Section 504.9.2 Duct Installation is amended by deleting the
last sentence and substituting in lieu thereof the following: “Ducts shall not
be joined with screws or similar fasteners. Ducts shall be sealed with UL 181
tape.”
      (5)   Chapter 6.
         (a)   Section 602.3 Stud Cavities and Joist Space Plenums is amended
to read: “Stud wall cavities and the spaces between solid floor joists shall
not be utilized for supply or return air plenums servicing habitable spaces.
Supply and return air must be ducted in wall cavities.”
         (b)   Section 603.6.1.1 Duct length is amended to read: “Flexible air
ducts shall be limited to six (6) feet in length.”
         (c)   Section 603.6.2.2.1 Installation Instructions for Flexible Air
Ducts and Air Duct Connectors adds a new section to read as follows: “Flexible
Air Ducts and Air Connectors shall follow the manufacturer’s installations, Air
Duct Council (ADC) 5th edition of the Flexible Performance & Installation
Standards, and this code. Flexible Air Ducts and Air Duct Connectors shall be
installed in accessible areas only. Where a code provision is less restrictive
than the manufacturer’s installation instructions, the manufacturer’s
installation instructions shall govern.”
         (d)   Section 603.6.2.1 Connector Length is amended to read: “Flexible
air connectors shall be limited in length to six (6) feet.”
         (e)   Section 607.3.2.1.1 Fire Damper Inspection adds a new section to
read as follows: “Fire dampers for all HVAC applications shall have a rough and
final inspection. All interlock motorized dampers must be inspected during the
rough and final installations by the mechanical and electrical inspectors.”
         (f)   Section 607.3.2.3.1 Combination Fire/Smoke Damper Inspection
adds a new section to read as follows: “Fire/smoke dampers shall have a rough
and final inspection.”
         (g)   Section 608.1 Balancing is amended to add a sentence at the end
of the paragraph: “A Test and Balance report must be completed for the entire
HVAC system by an independent AABC or NEBB certified balancer and supplied to
the Building Department not less than three (3) days prior to final
inspection.”
      (5)   Chapter 15 Referenced Standards is amended to delete all references
to the “International Plumbing Code” and substituting in lieu thereof the “2014
State of Illinois Plumbing Code.”
(Prior Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.07 ADOPTION OF THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of the
building and structures, including permits and penalties, a fuel gas code known
as the 2021 International Fuel Gas Code, of which not less than one copy has
been and is filed in the Office of the Village Clerk. The code is adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. From the date on which
this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling the
construction of all buildings and other structures therein the corporate limits
of the village.
   (B)   Additions, amendments and deletions. The following sections are
revised as follows.
      (1)   Chapter 1.
         (a)   Section 101.1 Title insert: “These regulations shall be known as
the Fuel Gas Code of the Village of Romeoville, hereinafter referred to as
“this code.”
         (b)   Section 109.2 Fee schedule: “A fee for each plan examination,
permit and inspection shall be paid in accordance with the attached schedule
under Section 150.29 of this Chapter and Chapter 43 of the Village of
Romeoville Code of Ordinance.”
         (c)   Section 109.4 Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance is amended
to read: “In addition to any other fines, fees or penalties provided for by
applicable provisions of this Code, when any work for which a permit is
required under this Code has begun or is completed without the required permit
having been obtained, the amount of the fee for the issuance of the required
permit under such circumstances shall be equal to the amount of the otherwise
applicable fee in cases not involving work without a permit or any other
violation of this Code, plus an additional amount calculated as follows: a) For
permits having an otherwise applicable fee of up to and including fifteen
hundred dollars ($1500.00), the additional amount added shall be equal to the
amount of the otherwise applicable permit fee; b) For permits having an
otherwise applicable fee in excess of fifteen hundred dollars ($1500.00), plus
twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the otherwise applicable permit
fee.”
         (d)   Section 109.6 Refunds: delete in its entirety and refer to
Section 150.26 of this Chapter for refunds.
         (e)   Section 115.4 Violation Penalties is amended to read: “Any
person, firm, corporation, or entity who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall, in addition to any other fines, penalties, fees or remedies set forth
elsewhere in this Code or in applicable law, be subject to a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1000.00) for each violation. Each day on which a violation shall continue to
exist shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense under this Chapter. In
addition, the Village shall have the right to file suit to compel the
demolition, repair, or enclosure of work, buildings or structures in violation
of this Chapter, to obtain an injunction requiring compliance with this
Chapter, all as provided for by 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq. of the Illinois
Municipal Code.”
         (f)   Section 116.5 Stop Work Orders adds a section that reads: “Any
person, firm, corporation or entity who shall continue any work in or about any
building or structure after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as they may be directed to perform in order to remove a violation or
unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the first occurrence, a fine of not less than two hundred
fifty ($250.00) for the second occurrence, and a fine not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and any subsequent occurrence. As used
herein, an “occurrence” shall denote any circumstance or occasion during which
work is performed in violation of the preceding sentence within the scope of
the permit issued or required to be issued for such work under this Chapter.”
         (g)   Sections 113.1 through 113.4 Means of Appeal is deleted in their
entirety.
         (h)   Section 114.1 Board of Appeals is deleted, and the following
text added: “Appeals shall be available as provided in Section 150.34 of this
Chapter.”
      (2)   Chapter 2. Section 201.3 Terms Defined in Other Codes is amended to
delete “International Plumbing Code” and substituting in lieu thereof “2014
State of Illinois Plumbing Code.”
      (3)   Chapter 3.
         (a)   Section 301.6 Plumbing Connections is amended to delete
“International Plumbing Code” and insert in lieu thereof “2014 Illinois State
Plumbing Code.”
         (b)   Section 306.3 Appliances in Attics is deleted in its entirety.
         (c)   Section 306.4 Appliances under Floors is deleted in its
entirety.
      (4)   Chapter 8: Referenced Standards is amended to delete “International
Plumbing code” and substituting in lieu thereof “The 2014 Illinois State
Plumbing Code.”
(Prior Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-
1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.08 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for public safety as it pertains to
establishing rules and regulations for energy conservation for all buildings
and structures, an energy conservation code known as the Illinois Energy
Conservation Code as codified at 71 Ill. Adm. Code 600 et seq., as the same is
amended from time to time by the state, of which not less than one copy has
been filed with and shall remain in the Office of the Village Clerk. The code
is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. From the
date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling the construction of all buildings and other structures therein the
corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Additions, amendments and deletions. The following sections are
revised as follows. Chapter 1:
      (1)   Section C101.1 and R101.1 Title is amended to read: “This code
shall be known as the International Energy Conservation Code of the Village of
Romeoville. It is referred to herein as “the Code”.”
      (2)   Section C104.1 and R104.1 Fee is amended to read: “A fee for each
plan examination, permit or inspection shall be paid in accordance with Section
150.29 of this Chapter and Chapter 43 of the Village of Romeoville Code of
Ordinances.”
      (3)   Section C109.4 and R109.4 Failure to comply is amended to read:
“Any person, firm, corporation or entity who shall continue any work in or
about any building or structure after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as they may be directed to perform in order to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first occurrence, a fine not less than two
hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for the second occurrence, and a fine of
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and any subsequent
occurrence. As used herein, an “occurrence” shall denote any circumstance or
occasion during which work is performed in violation of the preceding sentence
within the scope of the permit issued or required to be issued for such work
under this Chapter.”
      (4)   Section C110.1 through C110.3 and R110.1 through 110.4 Board of
Appeals is deleted and the following text added: “Appeals shall be available as
provided in Section 150.34 of this Chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 150.08) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.09 BUILDING PERMIT CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   There is adopted by the village for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use and occupancy, location and maintenance of the buildings and structures,
standards specifications to be known as the “Construction Specifications,”
which not less than one copy has been and is filed in the Office of the Village
Clerk. The specifications are adopted and incorporated in full as if set out at
length herein. From the date on which this section shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling the construction of all buildings and
other structures therein the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 150.09) (Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-
1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.10 ADOPTION OF THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the maintenance of building, site,
properties, structures and premises, including permits and penalties, a
property maintenance code known as the 2021 International Property Maintenance
Code, of which not less than one copy has been and are filed in the Office of
the Village Clerk. The code is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein. From the date on which this section shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling the construction of all buildings and
other structures therein the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Additions, amendments and deletions. The following sections are
revised as follows.
      (1)   Chapter 1.
         (a)   Section Title: “These regulations shall be known as the Property
Maintenance Code of the Village of Romeoville, hereinafter referred to as “this
code”.”
         (b)   Section 102.3 Application of Other Codes is amended to delete
the last sentence of the paragraph.
         (c)   Section 103.1 Creation of Agency is amended to read: “the
Community Development department is hereby created and the official in charge
thereof shall be known as the code official. The function of the agency shall
be the implementation, administration, and enforcement of the provisions of
this code.”
         (d)   Section 104.1 Fees is amended to read: “The fees for activities
and services performed are referenced in section 150.32 of this chapter.”
         (e)   Section 109.4 Violation Penalties is amended to read: “Any
person, firm, corporation or entity who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall, in addition to any other fines, penalties, fees or remedies set forth
elsewhere in this Code or in applicable law, be subject to a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1000.00) for each violation. Each day on which a violation shall continue to
exist shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense under this Chapter. In
addition, the village shall have the right to fine suit to compel the
demolition, repair, or enclosure of work, buildings or structures in violation
of this Chapter, to obtain an injunction requiring compliance with this Chapter
or to obtain the recovery of costs incurred by the Village in causing
compliance with this Chapter, all as provided by 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq. of
the Illinois Municipal Code.”
         (f)   Section 113.5 Grading adds a new section to read as follows:
“Within 15 days of any construction, building or premises that are demolished
in accordance with the provisions of this code, the owner shall remove all
debris from the demolition site and restore the site to its original grade.”
         (g)   Section 107.1 through 107.4 Means of Appeal is deleted in its
entirety
         (h)   Section 108.1 Board of Appeals is deleted and the following text
added: “Appeals shall be available as provided in Section 150.34 of this
Chapter.”
         (i)   Section 110.4 Failure to Comply is amended to read: “Any person,
firm, corporation or entity who shall continue any work in or about any
building or structure after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as they may be directed to perform in order to remove a violation or
unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the first occurrence, a fine of not less than two hundred
and fifty dollars ($250.00) for the second occurrence, and a fine of not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and any subsequent
occurrence. As used herein, an “occurrence” shall denote any circumstance or
occasion during which work is performed in violation of the preceding sentence
within the scope of the permit issued or required to be issued for such work
under this Chapter.”
      (2)   Chapter 2.
         (a)   Bedroom: A conditioned room with four (4) dry walled walls and
ceiling, a door and closet, used for sleeping that shall be not less than seven
(7) feet in any horizontal dimension, not less than seventy (70) square feet, a
ceiling height of not less than seven (7) feet measured from the finished
floor, electrical as required for bedrooms in the 2020 National Electrical Code
and an emergency escape and rescue opening as required in the 2021
International Residential Code section R3l0.2, and mechanical ventilation as
required in Chapter 16.
         (b)   Noxious Weeds: Noxious weeds means any plant now or hereafter
listed by the State of Illinois as a noxious weed pursuant to the Illinois
Noxious Weed Act, 505 ILCS 100/1 et seq., any plant now or hereafter listed as
an exotic weed by the Illinois Exotic Weed Law, 525 ILCS 10/1 et seq.,
dandelions, poison ivy (Toxicendron Radicans), Poison Oak (Toxicendron Querico
folium) and Poison Sumac (Toxicendron Vemix).
         (c)   Section 201.3 Terms Defined in Other Codes is amended to read:
“Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in the 2021
International Building Code, 2021 International Residential Code, 2021
International Fire Code, 2014 State Plumbing Code, 2020 National Electrical
Code, 2021 International Mechanical Code, 2021 International Fuel Gas Code,
2021 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2021 International Energy
Conservation Code and Chapter 158 of the Village of Romeoville code of
ordinances, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as stated in
those codes.”
      (3)   Chapter 3.
         (a)   Section 303.2 is deleted in its entirety. Refer to zoning code.
Section 302.4 Weeds is amended by adding: “Six (6) inches is the maximum height
allowed for weeds.”
         (b)   Section 304.14 Insect Screens is amended to read: “screens are
required from April 1st to November 1st.”
         (c)   307.1 General is amended to delete the numbers 30 and 42 in the
second sentence and substitute in lieu thereof the numbers 34 and 38. The last
sentence deletes the number 30 and inserts 36.
      (4)   Chapter 5. Section 505.1 General is amended by deleting the words
“International Plumbing Code” and substituting in lieu thereof the following
“2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code.”
      (5)   Chapter 6.
         (a)   Section 602.2 Residential Occupancies is amended to read:
“Dwellings shall be provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining a
room temperature of sixty-eight (68) Fahrenheit in all habitable rooms,
bathrooms, and toilet rooms when the temperature is above negative four
Fahrenheit (-4) degrees outside. Cooking appliances shall not be used to
provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section.”
         (b)   Section 602.3 Heat Supply is amended by adding the following
dates “September 21st through May 31st.”
Exception 1 is deleted in its entirety and is amended to read: “When the
outdoor temperature is below negative four Fahrenheit (-4) degrees outside,
maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall not be required provided the
heat heating system is operating at its full design capacity.”
Exception 2 is deleted in its entirety.
         (c)   Section 602.4 Occupiable Workspaces is amended by adding the
following dates “from September 21 to May 31st.”
      (6)   Chapter 7.
         (a)   Section 702.1 General is amended by adding the words “2021
International Building Code” and “2021 International Residential Code” at the
end of the last sentence.
         (b)   Section 702.2 Aisles is amended by adding the words “and 2021
International Building Code.”
         (c)   Section 704.l General is amended by adding the words “and the
2021 International Building Codes” at the end of the sentence.
         (d)   Section 705.2.1 Carbon Monoxide Detectors adds a new section to
read as follows: “Carbon Monoxide alarms are required in any building with
sleeping facilities that relies on combustion of fossil fuel for heat,
ventilation, hot water, or fireplace within the building, and buildings with
attached garages. Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with at least one
approved carbon monoxide alarm within fifteen (15) feet of every room used for
sleeping purposes. The carbon monoxide alarms may be either battery powered,
plug-in with battery back-up, or wired into an existing electrical system with
a battery back-up. The detectors must be installed and maintained per their
device listing.”
      (7)   Chapter 8.
         (a)   Referenced Standards is amended to delete all references to the
“ICC Electric Code” and substitute in lieu thereof the following: “The 2020
National Electrical Code as adopted and amended by the Village.”
         (b)   Delete all references to the “International Plumbing Code” and
substitute in lieu thereof the following: “2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code
as adopted and amended by the Village.”
         (c)   Delete all references to the “International Zoning Code” and
substitute in lieu thereof the following: “Romeoville Zoning Ordinance as
adopted and amended by the Village of Romeoville.”
(Prior Code, § 150.10) (Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-
1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.11 ADOPTION OF THE 2015 INTERNATIONAL WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE.
   (A)   There is adopted by the village for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction, alteration, movement, repair, maintenance
and use of any building, structure or premises, including permits and
penalties, a building code known as the 2015 International Wildland-Urban
Interface Code with all subsequent amendments, and all its referenced
standards, one copy of which has been and now is filed in the office of the
Village Clerk. The code is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein. From the date on which this section effect, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all buildings and
structures therein contained within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Section 106.1 is deleted and the following text added: “The Appeals
Board shall consist of the Village Manager, Director of Community Development
and the Fire Chief or their designee.”
(Prior Code, § 150.11) (Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-
1-2017)
§ 150.12 ADOPTION OF THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of swimming
pools and spas, including permits and penalties, a swimming pool and spa code
known as the 2021 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, including the ICC-
7, of which not less than one copy has been and is filed in the Office of the
Village Clerk. The code is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein. From the date on which this section shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling the construction of all buildings and
other structures therein the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Additions, amendments and deletions. The following sections are
revised as follows.
      (1)   Chapter 1.
         (a)   Section Title: “These regulations shall be known as the Swimming
Pool and Spa Code of the Village of Romeoville, hereinafter referred to as
“this code”.”
         (b)   Section 108.1 Fees is amended to read: “The fees for activities
and services performed are referenced in section 150.32 of this chapter.”
         (c)   Section 113.4 Violation Penalties is amended to read: “Any
person, firm, corporation, or entity who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall, in addition to any other fines, penalties, fees or remedies set forth
elsewhere in this Code or in applicable law, be subject to a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1000.00) for each violation. Each day on which a violation shall continue to
exist shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense under this Chapter. In
addition, the village shall have the right to fine suit to compel the
demolition, repair, or enclosure of work, buildings or structures in violation
of this Chapter, to obtain an injunction requiring compliance with this Chapter
or to obtain the recovery of costs incurred by the Village in causing
compliance with this Chapter, all as provided by 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq. of
the Illinois Municipal Code.”
         (d)   Section 111.1 through 111.4 Means of Appeal are deleted in their
entirety.
         (e)   Section 112.1 Board of Appeals is deleted and the following text
added: “Appeals shall be available as provided in Section 150.34 of this
Chapter.”
         (f)   Section 114.4 Failure to Comply is amended to read: “Any person,
firm, corporation or entity who shall continue any work in or about any
building or structure after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as they may be directed to perform in order to remove a violation or
unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the first occurrence, a fine of not less than two hundred
and fifty dollars ($250.00) for the second occurrence, and a fine of not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and any subsequent
occurrence. As used herein, an “occurrence” shall denote any circumstance or
occasion during which work is performed in violation of the preceding sentence
within the scope of the permit issued or required to be issued for such work
under this Chapter.”
         (g)   Section 305.2.4 Mesh Fence as a Barrier shall be deleted in its
entirety.
(Prior Code, § 150.12) (Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-
7-2022)
§ 150.13 ADOPTION OF THE 2021 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is adopted by the village for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of the
existing buildings and structures, including permits and penalties, an existing
building code known as the 2021 International Existing Building Code, inclusive
of Appendix G thereto, of which not less than one copy has been and are filed
in the Office of the Village Clerk. The code is adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein. From the date on which this section shall
take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling the construction of
all buildings and other structures therein the corporate limits of the village
   (B)   Additions, amendments and deletions. The following sections are
revised as follows.
      (1)   Chapter 1.
         (a)   Section Title: “These regulations shall be known as the Existing
Building Code of the Village of Romeoville, hereinafter referred to as “this
code”.”
         (b)   Section 108.1 Fees is amended to read: “The fees for activities
and services performed are referenced in section 150.27 of this chapter.”
         (c)   Section 113.4 Violation Penalties is amended to read: “Any
person, firm, corporation, or entity who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall, in addition to any other fines, penalties, fees or remedies set forth
elsewhere in this Code or in applicable law, be subject to a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1000.00) for each violation. Each day on which a violation shall continue to
exist shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense under this Chapter. In
addition, the village shall have the right to fine suit to compel the
demolition, repair, or enclosure of work, buildings or structures in violation
of this Chapter, to obtain an injunction requiring compliance with this Chapter
or to obtain the recovery of costs incurred by the Village in causing
compliance with this Chapter, all as provided by 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq. of
the Illinois Municipal Code.”
         (d)   Section 117.5 Grading adds a new section to read as follows:
“Within 15 days of any construction, building or premises that are demolished
in accordance with the provisions of this code, the owner shall remove all
debris from the demolition site and restore the site to its original grade.”
         (e)   Section 112.1 through 112.4 Means of Appeal are deleted in their
entirety
         (f)   Section 112.5 Board of Appeals adds a new section to read
Appeals shall be available as provided in Section 150.34 of this Chapter.
         (g)   Section 114.4 Failure to Comply is amended to read: “Any person,
firm, corporation or entity who shall continue any work in or about any
building or structure after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as they may be directed to perform in order to remove a violation or
unsafe condition, shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the first occurrence, a fine of not less than two hundred
and fifty dollars ($250.00) for the second occurrence, and a fine of not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the third and any subsequent
occurrence. As used herein, an “occurrence” shall denote any circumstance or
occasion during which work is performed in violation of the preceding sentence
within the scope of the permit issued or required to be issued for such work
under this Chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 150.13) (Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-
7-2022; Ord. 25-1963, passed 1-15-2025)
§ 150.14 ADOPTION OF THE ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY CODE.
   There is adopted by the village for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for public safety as it pertains to establishing rules and
regulations for accessibility to all buildings, premises, sites and
appurtenances an accessibility code known as the Illinois Accessibility Code as
codified at 71 I.A.C. §§ 400 et seq., as the same is amended from time to time
by the state, of which not less than one copy has been filed with and shall
remain in the Office of the Village Clerk. The code is adopted and incorporated
as fully as if set out at length herein. From the date on which this section
shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling the construction
of all buildings and other structures therein the corporate limits of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 150.14) (Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-
7-2022)
**** BUILDING PERMITS ****
§ 150.25 REQUIREMENTS.
   Before proceeding with the construction, alteration, repair, demolition or
removal of any building or any part thereof within the village, a permit shall
first be obtained from the Village Clerk, as herein provided by the owner or
their agent of the real estate on which the construction, alteration, repair,
demolition or removal of any buildings or any part thereof is to take place. It
shall be unlawful to proceed with construction, alteration, repair, demolition
or removal of any building or any part thereof unless a permit has been issued
from the Building Department.
(Prior Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 06-0481, passed 12-6-2006; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-7-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The owner or their agent shall make application to the Village Clerk
for a permit as set forth in §
150.09 and shall file with the Village Clerk a written application in such form
as may be furnished from time to time by the village, stating the owner of the
real estate or their agent; the name of the contractor, if any; the location of
the proposed building or building to be repaired, altered, demolished or
removed; the nature of the proposed construction, alterations or repairs; and
containing an undertaking by the owner, their agent or the contractor that if
the permit is granted the work will be done in accordance with the plans and
specifications, the provisions of the permit and provision of this subchapter.
A plot of survey made by a registered land surveyor shall accompany the
application, except for repairs to demolition or removal of a building. It
shall show the location of the proposed building or structure or proposed
alteration on the real estate. Complete plans and specifications shall be
furnished with the application. The Village Clerk shall refer the application
along with any accompanying documents to the Building Inspector who shall
examine the application.
   (B)   Commercial land use, which serve the driving public, such as
automobiles, filling stations, hotels, motels or drive-in restaurants and
similar operations, shall have their application, along with any accompanying
documents, referred for review to the Planning and Zoning Commission or the
Building Inspector. The review might be aided by the Village Engineer, Director
of Public Works and the Police and Fire Chiefs. They shall consider safety
provisions for ingress and egress to the lot, the effect night lighting and
display signs will have on surrounding residential properties and requirements
for utility connections, traffic safety and fire protection. After review, the
Planning Commission will report its findings to the Building Inspector. In
regards to an unfavorable report, the Board of Trustees will be notified and
shall act on the final disposition of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 150.16) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.27 DRAWING REQUIREMENTS.
   Plans and specifications filed with an application shall be filed in
duplicate; plans should be drawn to a scale not less than one-quarter of an
inch to the foot. Architectural and/or engineering stamped, signed and dated
drawings shall be required for room additions, sunrooms, three-season rooms and
any roof structure attached to a dwelling above a patio. The plans shall be
sized not less than 24 inches by 30 inches in size and show the location of all
sources of water and sewage disposal facilities; the location, character and
the connection of the plumbing, electrical fixtures and the heating and
ventilating equipment; the location, elevation and dimensions of foundations,
basements, crawl space and all floors and the roof. All plans and
specifications shall be reviewed and approved by the Building Inspector, so in
charge, with permanent approval stamp on each sheet or the cover/index sheet.
(Prior Code, § 150.17) (Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-
1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.28 PERMIT TERMINATION.
   Every permit issued under this chapter shall expire 12 months after its date
unless work has been commenced under it in the meantime. It may be revoked or
canceled by the Building Inspector, upon written notice to the applicant, at
any time after abandonment or discontinuance of the work for the continuous
period of six months. If a permit is terminated because of abandonment after
the work has begun, the owner shall restore the site to its condition prior to
the beginning of the work. If the property owner fails to restore the property
within a reasonable time, the village shall have the right to restore the site
at the property owner’s expense and any representative of the village may enter
the property for that purpose. If the property owner cannot cover the said
expense, then the village can assess a lien against the property with proper
notice to the homeowner.
(Prior Code, § 150.18) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.29 REFUNDS.
   Prior to the expiration of a permit, a portion of the permit fee will be
refunded provided no work has commenced. The village shall retain 50% of the
permit fee to cover any and all administrative costs associated with issuance
and/or termination of the original permit.
(Prior Code, § 150.19) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.30 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   A permit, which has expired or has been revoked or canceled, may be
renewed, if the work thereby authorized is permitted by ordinance in force at
the time of the renewal.
   (B)   Upon the filing of an application for renewal and upon payment of all
amounts remaining due to fees and deposits on the original permit, a renewal
fee is not less than the following fee shall apply to the permit(s) for the re-
issuance of said permit(s):
 
Permit renewal costs: 25% of original permit fee; minimum fee $25
 
(Prior Code, § 150.20) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.31 CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT PERMITS.
   In addition to any other fines, fees or penalties provided for by applicable
provisions of this code, when any work for which a permit is required under
this code has begun or is completed, without the required permit having been
obtained, the amount of the fee for the issuance of the required permit under
such circumstances shall be equal to the amount of the otherwise applicable fee
in cases not involving work without a permit or any other violation of this
code, plus an additional amount calculated as follows:
   (A)   For permits having an otherwise applicable fee up to and including
$1,500, the additional amount added shall be equal to the amount of the
otherwise applicable permit fee; and
   (B)   For permits having an otherwise applicable fee in excess of $1,500,
the additional amount added shall be equal to $1,500, plus 25% of the amount of
the otherwise applicable permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 150.21) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.32 FEE SCHEDULE.
   See
Chapter 43 for the current fee schedule.
   (A)   Zoning fees/certificates for commercial/ industrial. See
Chapter 43 for the current fee structure.
   (B)   Re-inspection fees. Any residential, commercial, industrial or
manufacturing development are subject to the following reinsertion fees:
 First Time Second Time Third Time Fourth Time or More
                First Time Second Time Third Time Fourth Time or More
Commercial Construction
Construction    $75        $150        $300       $600 for each
Electrical      $75        $150        $300       $600 for each
Fire Prevention $75        $150        $300       $600 for each
Mechanical      $75        $150        $300       $600 for each
Plumbing        $75        $150        $300       $600 for each
Industrial/Manufacturing Construction
Construction    $100       $200        $400       $800 for each
Electrical      $100       $200        $400       $800 for each
Fire Prevention $100       $200        $400       $800 for each
Mechanical      $100       $200        $400       $800 for each
Plumbing        $100       $200        $400       $800 for each
Residential Construction
Construction    $50        $100        $200       $400 for each
Electrical      $50        $100        $200       $400 for each
Fire Prevention $50        $100        $200       $400 for each
Mechanical      $50        $100        $200       $400 for each
Plumbing        $50        $100        $200       $400 for each
 
   (C)   Additional fees.
      (1)   In the event it shall appear from the plans and specifications
submitted for any building permit for the construction, reconstruction or
alteration of any improvement of any building that the approval of the same,
the issuance of a permit therefor or the inspections of the same during and
after construction requires the special expertise of an engineer or other
consultant, the cost to be incurred by the village for the services of such
engineer or consultant shall be determined, and the same shall be charged as
additional building permit fees in addition to such other fees which may be
provided, and the permit for the same shall not be issued until the same has
been paid.
      (2)   Such engineer or consultant shall be engaged by the Building
Inspector to perform such services as determined necessary.
      (3)   The additional building fees provided for herein shall be used to
defray the costs for which they are provided.
(Prior Code, § 150.22) (Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-
21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.33 TESTING AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Part A. The Village Building Department shall require all necessary
testing, test procedures and inspections as listed and prescribed in the 2021
International Building Code, 2021 International Residential Code, 2021
International Mechanical Code, 2021 International Fuel Gas Code, the
International Energy Conservation Code, 2021 International Property Maintenance
Code, 2014 State of Illinois Plumbing Code, the 2020 National Electrical Code,
2021 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2021 International Existing
Building Code and the Illinois Accessibility Code. Additional testing and
inspections are listed in Part B in division (B) below. Contact the Building
Commissioner for clarity on particular issues as necessary. No exceptions will
be made or deviations from the listed required testing, testing procedures and
inspections. Testing reports and inspections shall be submitted to the Village
Building Department in a timely matter so as not to hold up the construction
process and ultimately the final processing of a certificate of occupancy. All
activities including organization and execution of the actual testing and
inspection work shall be scheduled by the general contractor or permit holder.
   (B)   Part B. The Village Building Department also requires tests and
inspections listed below in addition to the tests and inspections listed above
for electrical, building, mechanical and plumbing. Electrical inspections are
as follows: underground trench raceway inspections, office, warehouse, factory
ceiling light fixtures rough and final inspections, new electrical main gear
service wiring rough and final inspections, transformer and generator rough and
final inspections, parking lot lights and pole bases rough and final
inspections, antenna cell towers rough and final inspections, conveyor and pick
modular wiring rough and final inspections, furnace, roof top units and air
conditioning units, swimming pool, spas, hot tubs, wiring rough and final
inspections, office furniture wiring rough and final inspections, construction
trailer inspection, illuminated wall sign inspection, any type of crane wiring
rough and final inspections and any warehouse machinery or equipment. Building
inspections are as follows: prepour and final inspections for concrete
footings, trenches, foundations, backfill, slabs, driveways, patios, sidewalks,
stoops, aprons, walls, floors and ceiling rough framing and final inspections,
ceiling grid inspection, a fire stopping rough inspection, ceiling insulation
rough and final inspections, siding, roof, deck, shed, gazebo, arbor, sunroom,
three-season room, porch, screened-in porch and porch rough and final
inspections and warehouse racking inspection. Mechanical inspections are as
follows: Rough duct and duct insulation inspection, underground duct in slab
inspection, furnace, roof top unit, air conditioning unit, chiller and cooler
rough and final inspections, refrigerant piping inspection, commercial Type I
and II kitchen hoods rough and final inspections, fire dampers rough and final
inspections, restroom exhaust fans rough and final inspections, dryer exhaust
rough and final duct inspections, commercial kitchen exhaust black iron weld
inspection and fire wrap inspection, and battery charging station ducted
exhaust inspection. Plumbing inspections are as follows: all underground sewer
and water trench rough and final inspections, irrigation rough and final
inspections, above ceiling rough and final inspections, eye wash station rough
and final inspections and gas piping rough and final inspections. This list is
not all inclusive. Any other inspections deemed necessary for code compliance
shall be determined by the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   Part C. The Village Building Commissioner or their designee reserves
the right to require other tests, testing procedures or inspections as they see
fit to meet the special needs or unique complexity of a specific construction
project. All general contractors, subcontractors or concerned parties are
strongly advised to contact the Building Commissioner to explore the potential
need for additional testing and inspection requirements. Failure to contact the
Building Commissioner concerning specifics on additional testing or inspections
will result in the inability of the Village Building Department’s final closing
of the construction permit process and preventing occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 150.23) (Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-
1-2017; Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.34 APPEALS.
   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter or of any referenced
code or standard adopted by reference by any section of this chapter, any
appeal of any action taken or any administrative decision made by any village
personnel charged with the administration, enforcement or application of any of
the provisions of this chapter or of any referenced code or standard adopted by
reference by any section of this chapter shall be taken to and heard by the
village administrative hearing officer, pursuant to §
41.20, and the otherwise applicable provisions of
Chapter 41.
(Prior Code, § 150.24) (Ord. 22-1812, passed 12-7-2022)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or entity who violates any provision of this
chapter shall, in addition to any other fines, penalties, fees or remedies set
forth elsewhere in this code or in applicable law, be subject to a fine of not
less than $100 nor more than $1,000 for each violation. Each day on which a
violation shall continue to exist shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense under this chapter. In addition, the village shall have the right to
file suit to compel the demolition, repair or enclosure of work, buildings or
structures in violation of this chapter, to obtain an injunction requiring
compliance with this chapter or to obtain the recovery of costs incurred by the
village in causing compliance with this chapter, all as provided for by 65 ILCS
5/11-31-1 et seq. of the Illinois Municipal Code.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 2689-99, passed 9-1-1999; Ord. 05-0252, passed 4-
6-2005; Ord. 11-0923, passed 9-21-2011; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 22-
1812, passed 12-7-2022)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSING/PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODES
Section
   
151.01   Definitions and construction
   
151.02   Title, scope and intent
   
151.03   Adoption of 2021 International Property Maintenance Code
   
151.04   Additions, insertions and changes
   
151.05   Property Maintenance Code Enforcement Department
   
151.06   Notices of violation; warning notices; violations, penalties and
abatement
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever the words THE MUNICIPALITY, THE JURISDICTION or VILLAGE are
used in this chapter or any code incorporated thereby, such words shall mean
the village.
   (B)   Whenever the provisions of the Property Maintenance Code, adopted by
this chapter, contain any reference to any other code, standard, reference work
or similar material or authority, such reference shall be construed to mean and
refer to the provisions of those codes, standards, reference works or other
similar materials or authorities as adopted by the village other than in
connection with the adoption of the provisions of this chapter in all cases
where the village has in fact adopted any such codes, standards, reference
works or other similar materials or authorities, but in all cases where the
village has not otherwise adopted or approved any such codes, standards,
reference works or other similar materials or authorities, then the reference
to codes, standards, reference works or other similar materials or authorities
contained within the provisions of the Property Maintenance Code adopted by
this chapter shall apply and be in full force and effect.
   (C)   Whenever the term PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE is used in the provisions
of this chapter, it shall be held to mean the 2015 International Property
Maintenance Code, as adopted in §
150.10, together with all local amendments as set forth in said §
150.10.
   (D)   Unless the context or text of this chapter otherwise clearly requires,
the term CODE OFFICIAL as used in the Property Maintenance Code shall have the
same meaning as and be interchangeable with the term CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
as hereinafter defined.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 2339-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 0043-02, passed 6-
19-2002; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017)
§ 151.02 TITLE, SCOPE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the “Property Maintenance
Code of the Village of Romeoville” and may hereinafter be referred to as “the
code.”
   (B)   Scope. This code is to protect the public health, safety and welfare
in all existing structures, residential and nonresidential and on all existing
premises by establishing minimum requirements and standards for premises,
structures, equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating,
sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and
other hazards and for safe and sanitary maintenance; fixing the responsibility
of owners, operators and occupants; regulating the occupancy of existing
structures and premises; and providing for administration, enforcement and
penalties.
   (C)   Intent. This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent,
which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they are
affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises.
Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall
be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as
required herein.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 2339-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-
1-2017)
§ 151.03 ADOPTION OF 2021 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The village adopts by reference as if fully set forth herein the 2021
International Property Maintenance Code, as set forth in §
150.10, together with all local amendments set forth in said §
150.10, as and for the Property Maintenance Code of the village, which shall
apply to all residential and nonresidential structures and other existing
premises within the village, and which shall establish minimum standards for
the maintenance and upkeep of such premises, buildings and structures and the
equipment and systems thereof with respect to lighting, ventilation, space,
heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from
fire and other hazards, occupancy and for the administration and enforcement of
all such standards. Not less than three copies of the Property Maintenance Code
and all revisions and amendments thereto that are contained within this chapter
shall be kept on file in the Village Clerk’s Office at all times. All
references in this code or in other ordinances, resolutions or regulations of
the village shall denote the Property Maintenance Code as adopted by this
section.
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 2339, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 0043-02, passed 6-19-
2002; Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 24-1943, passed 11-6-2024)
§ 151.04 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   Those sections of the Property Maintenance Code adopted by this section
enumerated below shall be amended and revised in the manner hereinafter set
forth in §
150.10, but any section of the Property Maintenance Code not specifically set
forth therein shall be adopted in the same manner and to the same extent as
adopted by said §
150.10.
(Prior Code, § 151.04) (Ord. 2339-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 0043-02, passed 6-
19-2002; Ord. 0042-03, passed 6-18-2003; Ord. 04-0227, passed 2-2-2005; Ord.
17-1347, passed 3-1-2017)
§ 151.05 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ENFORCEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   There is established within and under the supervision, control and
jurisdiction of the Village Police Department a Residential Property
Maintenance Code Enforcement Department (hereinafter sometimes referred to as
“Residential Code Enforcement”). The Chief of Police shall have charge of the
management and operation of such department and its operations, and may
delegate such other personnel from the Police Department to exercise managerial
or supervisory authority over Code Enforcement field personnel (such
Residential Code Enforcement field personnel hereinafter sometimes referred to
as “Residential Code Enforcement Officers”), who shall be employees of the
Village Police Department and subject to the rules and regulations thereof.
Subject to the approval of the President and Village Board of Trustees, the
Chief of Police may hire or appoint such other officers or employees as may be
needed to enforce and administer the provisions of this code from time to time.
While subject to the management and supervision of the Chief of Police or their
designees, Residential Code Enforcement Officers shall not be sworn officers of
the Department (but the foregoing shall not preclude any sworn officers of the
Department from enforcing the provisions of this code as may be necessary from
time to time or as directed by the Chief of Police). Residential Code
Enforcement, as herein constituted and established, shall primarily be
designated with the responsibility for enforcing the provisions of this chapter
as the same may apply to residentially zoned, developed or occupied properties
within the village, but shall not be precluded from enforcing the provisions of
this chapter as applied to nonresidentially zoned, developed or occupied
properties. Additionally, Residential Code Enforcement Officers shall have the
primary responsibility for enforcing
Chapter 92, and for enforcing the provisions of §
132.078 prohibiting graffiti, as well as such other codes and ordinances of the
village as may practically be assigned to residential code enforcement from
time to time by the Village Manager and/or the Chief of Police. Sworn officers
of the Village Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
as directed by the Chief of Police or their designee.
      (2)   There is established within and under the supervision, control and
jurisdiction of the Village Fire Department a Commercial Property Maintenance
Code Enforcement Division (hereinafter sometimes referred to as “Commercial
Code Enforcement”). The Fire Chief shall have charge of the management and
operation of such division and its operations, and may delegate such other
personnel from the Fire Department to exercise managerial or supervisory
authority over Commercial Code Enforcement field personnel (such Commercial
Code Enforcement field personnel hereinafter sometimes referred to as
“Commercial Code Enforcement Officers”), who shall be employees of the Village
Fire Department and subject to the rules and regulations thereof. Subject to
the approval of the President and Village Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief may
hire or appoint such other officers or employees as may be needed to enforce
and administer the provisions of this code from time to time. While subject to
the management and supervision of the Fire Chief or their designees, Commercial
Code Enforcement Officers need not be sworn personnel of the Fire Department
(but the foregoing shall not preclude any sworn personnel of the Fire
Department from enforcing the provisions of this code as may be necessary from
time to time or as directed by the Fire Chief). Commercial Code Enforcement, as
herein constituted and established, shall primarily be designated with the
responsibility for enforcing the provisions of this chapter and
Chapter 157 as the same may apply to nonresidentially zoned, developed or
occupied properties within the village, but shall not be precluded from
enforcing the provisions of this chapter as applied to residentially zoned,
developed or occupied properties. Commercial Code Enforcement Officers shall
also enforce such other ordinances of the village as may practically be
assigned to Commercial Code Enforcement from time to time by the Village
Manager.
   (B)   Fees. Applicable fees for inspections, permits, approvals or other
actions (excluding fines, costs or costs of remediation imposed in any
proceeding for violation of this chapter or this code) shall be as set forth
from time to time in
Chapter 43.
(Prior Code, § 151.05) (Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017; Ord. 24-1914, passed 5-
1-2024)
§ 151.06 NOTICES OF VIOLATION; WARNING NOTICES; VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND
ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notices of violation; warning notices. A complaint filed with the
Circuit Court of the 12th Judicial Circuit of the county for the violation of
this code, prepared and served in accordance with the applicable requirements
of this chapter, the Illinois Municipal Code and the other laws of the state
shall constitute a notice of violation under the Property Maintenance Code.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Property Maintenance Code to the contrary,
and except in cases brought pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Illinois
Municipal Code involving the condemnation of a building or structure as unsafe
or unfit for occupancy or cases brought pursuant to the relevant provisions of
the Illinois Municipal Code involving the demolition of a building or
structure, in which cases a warning notice under the provisions of the Property
Maintenance Code and such other and further notice as may be required under the
laws of the state shall be mandatory, no warning or preliminary notice need be
given prior to the issuance of a notice of violation or the filing of a
judicial complaint as outlined above, but such notices may be given by Code
Enforcement in an effort to secure prompt, voluntary and expeditious compliance
with the Property Maintenance Code. In the event that a warning notice is
issued prior to the issuance of a notice of violation, the warning notice shall
afford the persons to whom it is directed a reasonable opportunity to abate any
existing violations described in the warning notice and to comply with the
applicable provisions of this chapter or of this code without the commencement
of court proceedings or the issuance of a notice of violation. Warning notices
shall also specify the actions necessary to achieve compliance with this
chapter or this code, and provide a reasonable time period for such actions to
be taken, which reasonable time period shall not be less than five days, but
which shall otherwise be subject to the reasonable discretion of the code
enforcement officer issuing the warning notice; provided, however, that in any
case where the laws of this state or other applicable provisions of this code
provide for some other or further means of warning or like notice, such other
or further notice shall be issued by the code enforcement officer. Warning
notices shall be served in a manner reasonably calculated to provide actual
notice to the intended recipients of the contents thereof.
   (B)   Violations, penalties and abatement. Violations, penalties and
abatement remedies shall be as set forth in §
150.10, and shall include the local amendments to § 106.4 of the Property
Maintenance Code as set forth therein.
(Prior Code, § 151.06) (Ord. 17-1347, passed 3-1-2017)
CHAPTER 152: POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITING
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Applicability
   
152.03   Approval of pollution control facilities
   
152.04   Hearing officer
   
152.05   Procedure for filing an application for approval of a pollution
control facility
   
152.06   Procedure for filing written comments to an application for site
location approval for a PCF
   
152.07   Hearings on applications
   
152.08   Decisions
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Illinois Environmental Protection Act, as amended from time to
time (415 ILCS 5/1 et seq).
      APPLICANT. Any person, firm or partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind proposing to obtain site location approval
and IEPA permits for a pollution control facility subsequent to review by the
village and includes the fee owner of such site, the proposed operator and any
other party with an interest in the site, such as a lessee, contract purchaser
or land trust beneficiary.
      BOARD. The State Pollution Control Board.
      COUNTY. Will County, Illinois.
      COUNTY BOARD. The Will County Board.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. A site at which hazardous waste is
disposed. HAZARDOUS WASTE is waste as defined in the Act.
      IEPA. The State Environmental Protection Agency.
      NEW PCF. Includes modifications to an existing PCF which requires village
siting approval under the Act.
      PCF. A pollution control facility as defined in the Act. PCF includes a
new pollution control facility as defined by the Act.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Romeoville.
      VILLAGE BOARD. The President and Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter and defined in the Act shall have
the same definitions and meanings as found in said Act (including, but not
limited to, those terms defined in § 3 thereof).
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 2392-95, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 152.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall control all applications to site a pollution control
facility which are filed on or after December 6, 1995.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 2392-95, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 152.03 APPROVAL OF POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES.
   No site location approval for the development or construction of a new PCF
in the village may be granted by the Village Board unless an application in
conformance with Exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a
part hereof as if set out in full is filed for approval of such site and is
submitted for consideration to the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 2392-95, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 152.04 HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Village Board shall designate a hearing officer to serve during
any public hearing concerning an application for site location approval. The
hearing officer shall serve at the pleasure of the Village Board. Compensation
for the services of the hearing officer shall be agreed upon between the
hearing officer and the village before a hearing.
   (B)   The duties of the hearing officer shall include:
      (1)   Presiding at the public hearing and make decisions concerning the
admission of evidence and the manner in which the hearing is conducted. All
rulings and decisions shall be made in accordance with fundamental fairness;
      (2)   Making written findings of fact and seasonably submit them to the
Village Board; and
      (3)   Performing such other tasks as are reasonable and necessary to
carry out the terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 2392-95, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 152.05 PROCEDURE FOR FILING AN APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF A POLLUTION
CONTROL FACILITY.
   (A)   (1)   In order to request siting approval for a new PCF in the
village, an applicant must file an application with the Village Clerk. The
applicant must file a minimum of 35 copies of the application, and the
substance of the applicant’s proposal showing sufficient details describing the
proposed facility to demonstrate compliance with the Act and Board regulations,
including all site plans; engineering, including calculations, exhibits and
maps; and all documents, if any, to be submitted to the IEPA as of the date of
filing the application. At a minimum, the application shall comply with the
form of application attached hereto the ordinance incorporated herein, marked
as Exhibit A.
      (2)   The applicant shall deposit with the village at the time of filing
the application for site approval of a new PCF a filing fee deposit of $250,000
for facilities not to be designed for hazardous waste disposal and a filing fee
deposit of $750,000 if said proposed facility is designed as a hazardous waste
disposal site. If the applicant elects to file an amended application for site
location approval for any PCF in accordance with this chapter, such filing
shall be accompanied by payment of a supplemental fee of $100,000.
         (a)   The applicable filing fee is intended to defray the reasonable
and necessary costs of processing the application, including, but not limited
to: costs of site inspection, clerical expenses, copying costs, space rental,
hearing officer compensation, court reporter expenses, transcription costs,
public notice expenses, staff review time, reasonable attorneys’ fees and
village consultants (such as qualified professional engineers, planners,
appraisers, environmental counsel and the like), including tests, exhibits and
other testimony, if any, provided by said consultants, and other relevant costs
incident to the consideration of an application, the costs incident to
preparing the record for appeal and the cost of representing the village on
appeal in case of an appeal of the granting or denial of the application (the
“village costs”).
         (b)   If there are funds remaining in the filing fee deposit after
payment of the village costs, such amount shall be refunded to the applicant
upon the final resolution of the application process (including appeals to the
State Pollution Control Board, Appellate Court, State Supreme Court, federal
courts and administrative review in the courts, if any). Should the village
incur any additional costs in excess of the applicable filing fee deposit, the
applicant shall bear any and all such additional costs and shall promptly pay
over such additional amount to the village upon request or demand.
      (3)   (a)   The application must be complete, with answers provided for
each question on the application form. The application must contain
consecutively numbered pages and it must be accompanied by all site plans,
exhibits, maps and documents required by this chapter and such further
documents as are necessary to fully and accurately set forth the applicant’s
proposal. The date that the applicant files a complete application in proper
form, together with the applicable filing fee deposit, with the Village Clerk,
shall be considered the official filing date for all time limit purposes. The
application is not effective unless the application is in strict compliance
with this chapter and with the Act. If, upon review of the application within
14 days of its submittal, it is determined by the village to be incomplete and
not in strict conformance with the aforesaid, the application is deemed not
filed and the filing fee (less village costs and expenses incurred) shall be
returned to the applicant.
         (b)   At any time prior to completion by the applicant of the
presentation of the applicant’s factual evidence and an opportunity for cross-
questioning by the Village Board, village representatives and any participants,
the applicant may file not more than one amended application upon payment of
additional fees pursuant to § 39.2(k) of the Act, 415 ILCS 5/39.2(k), and
division (A)(2) above. Provided, however, that in the event of such an
amendment, the time limitation for final action set forth in § 39.2(e) of the
Act, 415 ILCS 5/39.2(e), and §
152.08(B) shall be extended for an additional period of 90 days.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application, and payment of the applicable
filing fee deposit, the Village Clerk shall date stamp all the copies.
      (2)   In order to develop a record sufficient to form the basis of an
appeal of the Village Board’s decision, the village may retain consultants on
behalf of the village. The consultants and the village shall then commence a
study of the application. The applicant shall cooperate fully with the
consultants and the technical staff of the village in their review of the
application, including providing access to the site for study or testing,
including, but not limited to, geophysical testing.
   (C)   A copy of the application and all related documents or other materials
on file with the Village Board shall be made available for public inspection in
the Office of the Village Clerk. Members of the public shall be allowed to
obtain a copy of the application or any part thereof upon payment of the actual
cost of reproduction as outlined in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act, 5
ILCS 140/1 et seq.
   (D)   (1)   It is the applicant’s duty to comply with all notice
requirements set forth in the Act.
      (2)   The applicant shall do as follows.
         (a)   No later than 14 days prior to filing an application for site
location approval with the Village Clerk, cause written notice of such
application to be served either in person or by registered mail, return receipt
requested, on the owners of all property within the subject area not solely
owned by the applicant, and on the owners of all property within 250 feet in
each direction of the lot line of the subject property, said owners being such
persons or entities which appear from the authentic tax records of the county
in which the site is located; provided that the number of all feet occupied by
public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in
computing the 250 feet requirement; provided further that in no event shall
this requirement exceed 400 feet, including public streets, alleys and other
public ways;
         (b)   The applicant shall serve such notice upon each member of the
General Assembly from the legislative district in which the proposed facility
is to be located, and this notice shall also be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county in which the site is located;
         (c)   The applicant shall state in such notice the name and address of
the applicant, the location of the proposed site, the nature and size of the
development, the nature of the activity proposed, the probable life of the
proposed activity, the date when the request for site approval will be
submitted to the Village Clerk, a description of the right of persons to
comment on such request as hereafter provided and any other information as may
be required by the Act;
         (d)   Any and such additional notice requirements as are provided for
in the Act; and
         (e)   The applicant shall include in the application proof of
compliance with all prefiling notice requirements.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 2392-95, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 152.06 PROCEDURE FOR FILING WRITTEN COMMENTS TO AN APPLICATION FOR SITE
LOCATION APPROVAL FOR A PCF.
   (A)   Any person may file written comments with the Village Clerk concerning
the appropriateness of the proposed site for its intended purpose. The Village
Board shall consider any comment received or postmarked from the date of
acceptance of the application through and until 30 days after the date of the
last public hearing in making its final determination. The written comments
shall be mailed or delivered to the Village Clerk, Romeoville Municipal
Building, 1050 W Romeo Road, Romeoville, IL 60446. The written comments shall
clearly designate reference to the PCF application to which they refer to
ensure their consideration by the Village Board. Upon receipt, the Village
Clerk shall date stamp the comments and refer them to the applicant, hearing
officer and Village Board.
   (B)   The above mentioned written comments shall become part of the record
of the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 2392-95, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 152.07 HEARINGS ON APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   At least one public hearing shall be held no sooner than 90 days but
no later than 120 days from and after the receipt of the complete application
for PCF site location approval.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall cause to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county in which the site is located a notice of such
public hearing not later than 14 days prior to the hearing.
      (2)   The applicant shall also serve written notice of such hearing by
certified mail, return receipt requested, on all members of the State General
Assembly from the district in which the proposed site is located, to the
governing authority of every municipality contiguous to the village and to the
IEPA. The applicant shall file with the Village Clerk copies of each notice
with proof of service of such notice prior to the commencement of said public
hearing.
   (C)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date and location of
the public hearing at least 21 days prior to such hearing.
   (D)   (1)   The public hearing shall develop a record sufficient to form the
basis of any appeal. During the course of the public hearing, the hearing
officer shall receive testimony from the applicant and witnesses whom the
applicant may call in support of the application, any village witnesses, any
objectors and any other witnesses having relevant information, and shall
recommend approval only if the proposed facility meets the following criteria
(or such amended criteria as may be set forth from time to time in the Act):
         (a)   That the facility is necessary to accommodate the waste needs of
the area that it is intended to serve;
         (b)   That the facility is so designed, located and proposed to be
operated that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected;
         (c)   That the facility is located so as to minimize incompatibility
with the character of the surrounding area and to minimize the effect on the
value of the surrounding property;
         (d)   That the facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-
year floodplain, or that the site is floodproofed;
         (e)   That the plan of operations for the facility is designed to
minimize the danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills or other
operational accidents;
         (f)   That traffic patterns to or from the facility are so designed to
minimize the impact of existing traffic flows;
         (g)   That if the facility will be treating, storing or disposing of
hazardous waste, an emergency response plan exists for the facility which
includes notification, containment and evacuation procedures to be used in case
of an accidental release;
         (h)   That if the County Board in which the facility is located has
adopted a solid waste management plan, consistent with the planning
requirements of the Local Solid Waste Disposal Act, 415 ILCS 10/1 et seq., or
the Solid Waste Planning and Recycling Act, 415 ILCS 15/1 et seq., the facility
is consistent with that plan; and
         (i)   That if the facility will be located within a regulated recharge
area, any applicable requirements specified by the Board for such areas have
been met.
      (2)   The Village Board may also consider as evidence the previous
operating experience and past record of convictions or admissions of violations
of the applicant (and any subsidiary or parent corporation of the applicant) in
the field of solid waste management when considering criteria of divisions (D)
(1)(b) and (D)(1)(e) above.
   (E)   A transcript shall be kept of all proceedings before the hearing
officer. The hearing officer shall preside at the public hearing and shall make
any decisions concerning the admission of evidence and the manner in which the
hearing is conducted subject to this chapter. The hearing officer shall make
all rulings and decisions in accordance with fundamental fairness. No ruling of
the hearing officer concerning admissibility of evidence or procedural issues
at the public hearing shall be appealable to the Village Board. Issues of
jurisdiction shall be finally determined by the Village Board.
   (F)   The applicant for site location approval shall have the burden of
proof and the burden of going forward with evidence. The testimonial evidence
introduced by the applicant may not exceed the scope of the application. Such
oral testimony may only explain and clarify the application, not expand or
amend the application.
   (G)   All persons desiring to be participants in the hearing, including
members of the public, must submit written notification of the intent to the
Village Clerk before the first day of the hearing or register with the hearing
officer on the first day of the hearing. Any person so appearing at such public
hearing shall have the right to present testimony and witnesses. Any such
person shall have the right to be represented by an attorney at said public
hearing. Opportunity for any persons appearing at the hearing to cross-examine
any witness may be reasonably limited in time and duration by the hearing
officer, to assure completion of the hearings in accordance with the deadlines
of the Act. The hearing officer may propound questions to any witness or to the
applicant to clarify the record established by the participants at the hearing
or to bring out relevant information. The village shall be deemed a participant
and a party to all proceedings.
   (H)   The applicant and the village’s counsel shall be allowed to cross-
examine witnesses by right, subject to such reasonable limitation as may be set
by the hearing officer. Cross-examination by the village shall not be limited
to matters contained in the application. Parties represented by attorneys may
be allowed to cross-examine in the discretion of the hearing officer. Other
persons shall be allowed to submit questions to the hearing officer, who shall
exercise discretion in the manner in which such questions are to be posed to
witnesses. Sufficient examination of witnesses is to be allowed so as to
provide for fundamental fairness.
   (I)   All witnesses shall testify under oath. Testimony may include the use
of prepared statements and exhibits. If testimony is by prepared statement,
copies of such prepared statements shall be made available at the hearings (or,
prior to the first hearing date, at the Office of the Village Clerk) at least
one day in advance of such testimony being given. All witnesses shall be
subject to reasonable examination as follows: direct, cross-examination,
redirect and recross.
   (J)   The hearing officer may exercise discretion to allow public comment at
each hearing or may set a time for public comment.
   (K)   The decision of the village on the application shall be in writing,
specifying the reason(s) for the decision, in accordance with division (D)
above.
   (L)   The siting approval procedures and criteria provided for in this
chapter for new RCFs shall be the exclusive siting procedures and rules and
approval procedures.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. 2392-95, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 152.08 DECISIONS.
   (A)   Once the hearing officer has made their findings and reduced their
findings and recommendation to writing, the same shall be submitted to the
Village Board for its decision as to the ultimate approval or disapproval of
the proposed site location.
   (B)   The Village Board shall make a decision based on the record from the
public hearing and review of the findings and recommendation of the hearing
officer. The decision of the Village Board shall be by ordinance or resolution,
in writing, specifying the reasons for the decision, such reasons to be in
conformity with § 39.2(a) of the Act, 415 ILCS 5/39.2(a). In granting site
location approval, the Village Board may impose such conditions as may be
reasonable and necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Act to the extent
that said conditions are not inconsistent with the Act and the regulations
promulgated by the State Pollution Control Board. Such decisions shall be
available for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk and may be
copied upon payment of the cost of reproduction. If there is no final action by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees within 180 days after the filing of the
application for site location approval, the applicant may deem the application
approved.
   (C)   An applicant may not file an application for site location approval
which is substantially the same as a request which was disapproved, pursuant to
a finding against the applicant under any criteria of §
152.07(D)(1)(a) through (D)(1)(i), and of § 39.2(a) of the Act, 415 ILCS 5/39.2
(a), within two years.
(Prior Code, § 152.08) (Ord. 2392-95, passed 12-6-1995)
CHAPTER 153: RENTAL PROPERTY INSPECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Title, scope and purpose
Rental Property Provisions
   
153.15   Registration of rental property
   
153.16   Rental occupancy inspections requirements
   
153.17   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.18   Application for certificate of occupancy
   
153.19   Permit fee
Inspection Requirements
   
153.30   Inspections
   
153.31   Inspection criteria
   
153.32   Issuance or withholding of occupancy
   
153.33   Certificates of occupancy/rental inspections for multi-unit complexes
   
153.34   Expiration or revocation of a certificate
   
153.35   Compliance required
   
153.36   Right to appeal
   
153.37   Liability
   
153.38   Additional remedies
   
153.39   Challenge of validity
 
   
153.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. Any person, firm or agency assigned by the owner of the property to
represent their interest in the rental, lease or sublease of a dwelling unit or
units.
   BENEFICIAL INTEREST. Any interest, regardless of how small or minimal such
interest may be, in a land trust, held by a trustee for the benefit of
beneficiaries of such land trust.
   BENEFICIARY. Any person, body politic, corporate or other entity having a
beneficial interest in a land trust.
   COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY. Any building in an area zoned for commercial use
of which all or a portion of the building is to be rented or leased to an
occupant other than the owner.
   COMMON AREA. All hallways, foyers, communal laundry or storage areas,
meeting or party rooms and any other area that is used by all the residents of
a building or the general public.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. Any building or structure used or held out to the public to
be a place where sleeping accommodations are furnished or maintained for 20 or
more persons for a period of one day or more.
   INDUSTRIAL RENTAL PROPERTY. Any building in an area zoned for industrial or
research use of which all or a portion of the building is to be rented or
leased to an occupant other than the owner.
   INSTALLMENT LAND CONTRACT. A conditional contract for the sale of real
estate whereby the buyer makes periodic payments to the seller and the seller
retains title to the property until all payments are made. Also known as a
CONTRACT FOR DEED.
   LAND TRUST. Any express agreement or arrangement whereof a use, confidence
or trust is declared of any land, or of any charge upon land, for the use or
benefit of any beneficiary, under which the title to real property, both legal
and equitable, is held by a trustee, subject only to the execution of the
trust, which may be enforced by the beneficiaries who have the exclusive right
to manage and control the real estate, to have the possession thereof, to
receive the net proceeds from the rental, sale, hypothecation or other
disposition thereof, and under which the interest of the beneficiary is
personal property only.
   MANAGER. See AGENT and PROPERTY MANAGER.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY RENTAL UNIT. Denotes a rental property within any structure
in which more than two rental dwelling units are located and access to which is
through a common area (does not include hotel or motel), but excluding rental
properties located within hotels or motels and any rental properties located
within a multi-unit complex, all as defined in this section.
   MULTI-UNIT COMPLEX. Denotes any development as defined in §
153.33.
   OWNER. The person or persons, jointly or severally, that hold the legal or
equitable title or the most substantial or controlling portion thereof to a
parcel of property, including a mortgage holder in possession. Without
otherwise limiting the generality of the foregoing, an OWNER shall include all
persons or entities that lease or otherwise allow any persons other than such
owner to occupy or possess any rental property or rental unit as herein
defined.
   POWER OF DIRECTION. The authority to direct the trustee to convey, execute a
mortgage, distribute proceeds of a sale or financing and execute any other
documents incidental to the existence of a land trust.
   PROPERTY MANAGER. Any person either residing in or on rental property and
functioning as an agent for nonresident rental property owners.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. Any dwelling unit or commercial/industrial space or
building that is located either within a multiple-family rental unit, a multi-
unit complex, townhome structure, single-family detached residence or
commercial/industrial structure that is rented, leased or subleased to an
occupant is intended for occupancy by one other than the owner, or a dwelling
unit occupied by a contract purchaser under an installment land contract.
Notwithstanding the absence of a traditional written or oral lease, a dwelling
unit or commercial/industrial space or building that is located either within a
multiple-family dwelling unit, a multi-unit complex, townhome structure,
single-family detached residence or commercial/industrial structure shall
nonetheless be deemed to be a RENTAL PROPERTY where, under the totality of the
circumstances, it appears that the property is intended to be used and occupied
by persons other than the real or substantial owner thereof. Factors relevant
to the determination that a property is a RENTAL PROPERTY within the meaning of
the preceding sentence shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The identity of the persons or entities shown on the tax bill for
the property in question;
      (2)   The identity of the person or entity shown on the bills or accounts
for utility services to the property in question;
      (3)   Whether the occupant(s) of the property in question have provided
any form of periodic or other consideration to any other party as a condition
of the ability of the occupant to occupy the property in question;
      (4)   The identity of the person or entity responsible for repairs and
maintenance to the property in question, whether such person or entity occupies
the property in question, and whether such person or entity receives
compensation for performing repairs and maintenance to the property in
question;
      (5)   Whether the property in question is occupied by persons
collectively holding a majority of the beneficial interest in any land trust in
which title to the property in question is held together with the power of
direction over such land trust, or whether the property is occupied by persons
collectively holding a minority of the beneficial interest in any land trust in
which title to the property in question is held, without the power of direction
over such land trust;
      (6)   The relative proportions of beneficial interest in any land trust
holding title to the property in question held by occupants of the property in
question as compared to non-occupants of the property in question;
      (7)   The absence of any familial relationship between the occupants of
the property and the non-occupant holders of beneficial interest in any land
trust holding title to the property in question;
      (8)   The relative proportion of ownership interest or title to the
property held by owner-occupants as compared to the proportion of ownership
interest or title to the property held by non-occupant owners of the property
in question, regardless of the form or means by which such ownership or title
interests are held;
      (9)   Whether the property in question is occupied by persons
collectively holding a majority of the ownership interest in or title to the
property, regardless of the form or means by which such ownership interests or
title is held; and
      (10)   The presence or absence of any familial relationship between the
occupant-owners and the non-occupant owners, regardless of the form or means by
which such ownership or title interests are held.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any dwelling unit or commercial/industrial space or building
that is located either within a multiple-family dwelling unit, multi-unit
complex, townhome structure, single-family detached residence or commercial/
industrial structure that is rented, leased or subleased to an occupant or
intended for occupancy by other than the owner. Notwithstanding the absence of
a traditional written or oral lease, a dwelling unit or commercial/ industrial
space or building that is located either within a multiple family dwelling
unit, multi-unit complex, townhome structure, single-family detached residence
or commercial/industrial structure shall nonetheless be deemed to be a RENTAL
UNIT where, under the totality of the circumstances, it appears that the unit,
space or building in question is intended to be used and occupied by persons
other than the real or substantial owner thereof. Factors relevant to the
determination that a unit, space or building is a RENTAL UNIT within the
meaning of the preceding sentence shall include, but not necessarily be limited
to, the following:
      (1)   The identity of the persons or entities shown on the tax bill for
the unit, space or building in question;
      (2)   The identity of the person or entity shown on the bills or accounts
for utility services to the unit, space or building in question;
      (3)   Whether the occupant(s) of the unit, space or building in question
have provided any form of periodic or other consideration to any other party as
a condition of the ability of the occupant to occupy the unit, space or
building in question;
      (4)   The identity of the person or entity responsible for repairs and
maintenance to the unit, space or building in question, whether such person or
entity occupies the unit, space or building in question, and whether such
person or entity receives compensation for performing repairs and maintenance
to the unit, space or building in question;
      (5)   Whether the unit, space or building in question is occupied by
persons collectively holding a majority of the beneficial interest in any land
trust in which title to the unit, space or building in question is held
together with the power of direction over such land trust, or whether the unit,
space or building is occupied by persons collectively holding a minority of the
beneficial interest in any land trust in which title to the unit, space or
building in question is held, without the power of direction over such land
trust;
      (6)   The relative proportions of beneficial interest in any land trust
holding title to the unit, space or building in question held by occupants of
the unit, space or building in question as compared to non-occupants of the
unit, space or building in question;
      (7)   The absence of any familial relationship between the occupants of
the unit, space or building and the non-occupant holders of beneficial interest
in any land trust holding title to the unit, space or building in question;
      (8)   The relative proportion of ownership interest or title to the
property held by owner-occupants as compared to the proportion of ownership
interest or title to the property held by non-occupant owners of the property
in question, regardless of the form or means by which such ownership or title
interests are held;
      (9)   Whether the property in question is occupied by persons
collectively holding a majority of the ownership interest in or title to the
property, regardless of the form or means by which such ownership interests or
title is held; and
      (10)   The presence or absence of any familial relationship between the
occupant-owners and the non-occupant owners, regardless of the form or means by
which such ownership or title interests are held.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. A residential dwelling unit other than those
located in a multi-family rental unit or within a multi-unit complex.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 14-1120, passed 5-
21-2014; Ord. 16-1298, passed 7-6-2016; Ord. 17-1367, passed 5-3-2017; Ord. 25-
2031, passed 12-17-2025)
§ 153.02 TITLE, SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the Rental Property
Inspections Code of the village and hereinafter referred to as the code.
   (B)   Scope. This code is to protect the public health, safety and welfare
in all existing structures, residential and nonresidential, and on all existing
premises by establishing minimum requirements and standards for premises,
structures, equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating,
sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and
other hazards and for safe and sanitary maintenance; fixing the responsibility
of owners, landlords, property managers, tenants and occupants; regulating the
occupancy of existing structures and premises; and providing for
administration, enforcement and penalties.
   (C)   Purpose. To assure that all rental properties within the corporate
limits of the village are maintained in compliance with the Property
Maintenance Code and Zoning Code which are currently adopted by the village and
that the health, safety and welfare of the occupants and general public are
protected.
(Prior Code, § 155.02) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995)
**** RENTAL PROPERTY PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.15 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Every owner of a rental property, whether residential, commercial or
industrial, shall be required to provide the village, on a form provided by the
Department of Community Services and Development, Code Administration/
Enforcement Division, the following information:
      (1)   The address of the rental property;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number and email address of the
property owner;
      (3)   The name, address and phone number and email address of the agent
or person in charge of the property;
      (4)   The name, address and phone number and email address of the person
or persons to contact in the event of an emergency; and
      (5)   The name, address and phone number and email address of the person
or persons living in or occupying the property.
   (B)   A separate form for each rental property shall be provided. In the
event that any of the information provided for any rental property changes, it
shall be the responsibility of the property owner, landlord and/or property
manager to notify the Code Officials of these changes within seven business
days of the effective date of the change.
(Prior Code, § 155.03) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 14-1120, passed 5-
21-2014; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-17-2025) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 RENTAL OCCUPANCY INSPECTIONS REQUIREMENTS.
   No owner, agent or person in charge of any rental properties, including all
residential dwelling unit(s) or commercial/industrial rental space, shall allow
any other person to occupy the same as a lessee, unless said residential
dwelling unit(s) or commercial/industrial rental space has been inspected and
approved for occupancy by the local Code Official, and in accordance with the
requirements contained within this chapter. A certificate of occupancy issued
in connection with the initial construction of any rental property shall
satisfy the requirements of this chapter for the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for a rental property for a period of three years from the date of
the issuance thereof. After the expiration of such initial three-year period,
all rental properties must thereafter be inspected and receive certificates of
occupancy as otherwise provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 155.04) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-
17-2025) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.17 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No owner, agent or person in charge of an existing single-family
dwelling unit(s), an existing multiple-family rental unit(s), multi-unit
complex, commercial or industrial rental space shall rent a unit or allow any
person to occupy the same as an occupant, or lessee unless a certificate of
occupancy has been issued by a village inspector certifying that the
residential, commercial or industrial rental property at issue has been
inspected and found to be in reasonable compliance with all provisions of the
currently adopted Property Maintenance Code of the village as well as all other
health, building and zoning laws in force at the time the building was built;
provided there are no violations to be found that threatened the health, safety
and welfare of the occupants. Any change in occupancy shall require a new
certificate, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   A valid certificate of occupancy shall be required to accompany
applications for water service.
   (C)   A certificate of occupancy issued in connection with the initial
construction of any rental property shall satisfy the requirements of this
chapter for the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for a rental property
for a period of three years from the date of the issuance thereof. After the
expiration of such initial three-year period, all rental properties must
thereafter be inspected and receive certificates of occupancy as otherwise
provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 155.05) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 14-1120, passed 5-
21-2014; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-17-2025) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.18 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Single-family residence, commercial or industrial. The owner, agent or
person in charge of a rental property within an existing single-family dwelling
unit, multiple-family rental unit, commercial or industrial rental property
shall file an application with the village for a certificate of occupancy no
less than 14 working days prior to the occupancy of the rental property.
Application shall be made on a form available from the village. The application
shall contain the address of the rental property; the name, current address and
phone number of the owner, agent or person in charge of the property; the name
of the pending lessee; and such other information required by the Code
Official, including a statement of authorization allowing the Code Official to
enter the premises at a mutually agreed time for the purpose of performing the
inspection.
   (B)   Statement of authorization. In addition to the statement of
authorization on the application allowing the Code Official to enter the
premises, the owner, agent or person in charge of an existing single-family
dwelling unit, multiple-family dwelling unit or commercial or industrial rental
property shall be advised by the village of their right to refuse inspection of
the dwelling unit, commercial or industrial rental space, and the village’s
right to seek issuance of an administrative search warrant in the event of any
such refusal.
   (C)   Multiple-family dwelling multi-unit complexes. Owners, landlords, or
property managers of multiple multi-unit complexes as defined in §
153.01. Section 153.01 shall comply with the provisions of §
153.33.
(Prior Code, § 155.06) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 16-1319, passed 9-
21-2016; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-17-2025)
§ 153.19 PERMIT FEE.
   The Village Board of Trustees shall establish a schedule of fees, charges
and expenses for permits for rental property inspections. Fees shall be paid to
the Village Clerk at the time of application for a permit is made. The schedule
of fees shall be as set forth in the Chapter 43, and may be altered/or amended
from time to time by the Mayor and village as otherwise set forth in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 155.07) (Ord. 2683-99, passed 8-18-1999; Ord. 25-2031, passed
12-17-2025)
**** INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 153.30 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspection requirements. Except as provided in §
153.33, within five business days, or sooner, of the filing of the application,
the inspector will contact the owner, agent or person in charge of the rental
property to be inspected to confirm the inspection date and time stated on the
application. The owner, agent or person in charge of the rental property must
accompany the inspector during the inspection. If access to the rental property
is not possible because of the failure of the owner, agent or person in charge
to appear within ten minutes of the scheduled time, this shall be deemed a
violation of good faith and a rescheduling fee of $50 may be assessed for
rescheduling the inspection in addition to any otherwise applicable fees for
such inspection. In the event of a second or any subsequent failure by the
owner, agent or person in charge of the rental property to appear within ten
minutes of the scheduled time, the same shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and subject to the penalties set forth in §
153.99.
   (B)   Vacancy required. The rental property must be vacant and unoccupied at
the time the inspection is scheduled to be performed. If it is found that the
rental property is occupied at the time of the inspection, an additional fee of
$100 may be assessed to accommodate for the added difficulties for the
inspector to perform a proper inspection.
   (C)   Violations to be abated. The village shall inspect all common areas of
multiple-family dwelling unit(s). If violations are found, they must be abated
before any application(s) for an occupancy inspection will be accepted
according to this chapter.
   (D)   Multi-unit complexes. Owners, landlords or property managers of multi-
unit complexes as defined in §
153.01 shall comply with the provisions of §
153.33.
(Prior Code, § 155.10) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 12-0987, passed 5-
2-2012; Ord. 16-1284, passed 5-18-2016; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-17-2025)
§ 153.31 INSPECTION CRITERIA.
   (A)   Inspections shall be made using the minimum standard established in
the currently adopted Property Maintenance Code of the village in those
chapters pertaining to:
      (1)   Exterior premises;
      (2)   Exterior structure;
      (3)   Interior structure;
      (4)   Ventilation and space requirements;
      (5)   Plumbing facilities and fixtures;
      (6)   Heating facilities;
      (7)   Electrical facilities;
      (8)   Egress;
      (9)   Condition of common areas (multiple-family units);
      (10)   Emergency facilities; and
      (11)   Existing handicapped facilities (commercial/ industrial, multi-
family).
   (B)   In addition, all residential dwelling units shall be inspected for
compliance with the provisions of §
91.60 pertaining to carbon monoxide alarms.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, agent or person in charge
of the rental property to ensure that any and all personal property is removed
from the rental property or relocated within the rental property as necessary
to permit the conduct of the rental inspection. Failure or refusal to do so
shall constitute a violation of this chapter and grounds for withholding a
certificate of occupancy under this chapter. Any area, part, portion or system
of any rental property not inspected due to the failure or refusal to remove or
relocate personal property shall likewise constitute a violation of this
chapter and grounds for withholding a certificate of occupancy under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 155.11) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 06-0481, passed 12-
6-2006; Ord. 12-0987, passed 5-2-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.32 ISSUANCE OR WITHHOLDING OF OCCUPANCY.
   The Code Official shall, within three working days, or sooner, of the
inspection, grant or withhold a certificate of occupancy in the following
manner:
   (A)   Issuance. Upon the determination of the Code Official that the rental
property in question substantially complies with the provisions of §
153.30 and division (B) of below, the Code Official shall issue the certificate
of occupancy to the applicant. It shall be the responsibility of the property
manager to provide a copy of the occupancy permit to the lessee for their
records.
   (B)   Violation abatement required. If violations were reported during the
inspection and all were verified abated by reinspection of the premises, a
certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
   (C)   Failure to abate. If violations are not abated within the time
specified in the report of the Inspector, the owner shall be deemed in
violation of this chapter and subject to the fines and penalties contained
herein.
   (D)   Withholding the certificate of occupancy. The Code Official shall
withhold the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any rental property
until all violations reported during the initial inspection are abated by the
owner, agent or person in charge of the property. Except as otherwise provided
in this chapter with respect to rental properties in multi-unit complexes,
occupancy or re-occupancy of any rental property (i.e., residential, industrial
or commercial) shall be prohibited without a new rental inspection and new
certificate of occupancy being issued prior to each change of lessee, tenant or
occupant, including changes of less than all lessees, tenants or occupants of a
single rental property leased, occupied or shared by multiple lessees, tenants
or occupants.
(Prior Code, § 155.12) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 12-0987, passed 5-
2-2012; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-17-2025) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.33 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY/RENTAL INSPECTIONS FOR MULTI-UNIT COMPLEXES.
   (A)   For the propose of this section, a MULTI-UNIT COMPLEX shall consist of
and include any development containing or having appropriate development
approvals from the village to contain 175 or more residential rental properties
under common ownership, which is professionally managed by personnel employed
by or under contract to the owner thereof, and which includes the following
listed amenities:
      (1)   A clubhouse or common building intended and available for use by
multi-unit complex residents;
      (2)   Recreational facilities for multi-unit complex residents,
including, but not necessarily limited to, a swimming pool, fitness center or
outdoor patio/gathering area; and
      (3)   Common open space improved with pedestrian walking paths or
sidewalks and areas for pet exercise.
   (B)   The owner, agent or person in charge of any existing multi-unit(s)
complex shall notify the village requesting an immediate inspection for the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for a rental property within a multi-
unit complex by making application in accordance with the provisions of §
153.18. Such request shall also be accompanied by the submission to the village
of written documentation that the furnace has passed a safety inspection
performed by a licensed HVAC contractor within the 12 months prior to the
request/application for the rental inspection.
   (C)   The Code Official shall inspect the premises within three working
days, or sooner, and issue a certificate of occupancy upon finding that the
premises comply with the provisions of §§
153.30(B),
153.31 and
153.32(B).
   (D)   The owner, agent or person in charge of the code existing multi-unit
complex shall accompany the village inspector during the conduct of the
inspection the rental property in question, and the proposed occupant(s) of the
rental property shall also be permitted to attend the inspection; the village
shall make reasonable efforts as requested by the proposed occupant(s) to
schedule inspections to accommodate attendance at the inspection by the
proposed occupant(s) of the rental property; provided that all such inspections
shall occur during the regular business hours of the village code enforcement
department. In the event that the premises do not comply with such provisions,
then the Code Official shall schedule a reinspection within three working days
or sooner after receiving notice from the owner, agent or person in charge of
any existing multi-unit complex. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued
for in any rental property within a multi-unit complex until such time as an
inspection or reinspection results in a determination that the rental property
in question has achieved compliance with the provisions of §§
153.30(B),
153.31 and
153.32(B). The fee for each inspection and reinspection shall be as set forth
from time to time in Chapter 43. Rental inspections of occupied rental
properties in multi-unit complexes shall also be subject to the payment of an
additional fee as set forth from time to time in Chapter 43.
   (E)   A certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to this section shall be
valid for a period of three years from the date of issuance, notwithstanding
any changes in occupancy during such three year period; provided, however, that
upon any change in the occupancy of the relevant rental property to which the
certificate of occupancy pertains, the owner, agent or person in charge of any
existing multi-unit complex shall provide the village with an affidavit
including the name and contact information as to the new or different occupants
of such rental property, and attesting to the fact that such rental property is
then in compliance with the provisions of all applicable ordinances, including,
but not limited to, the provisions of §§
153.30(B),
153.31 and
153.32(B).
   (F)   The inspectional procedures and requirements set forth in this section
shall be applicable to all rental property inspections within multi-unit
complexes conducted or required on or after July 1, 2021. Certificates of
occupancy for rental properties in multi-unit complexes issued prior to July 1,
2021 shall remain in force and effect for a period of three years from their
initial date of issuance, but the owner, agent or person in charge of any
existing multi-unit complex for which such a certificate of occupancy has been
issued shall be required to comply with the requirements of division (E) above;
thereafter, the owner, agent or person in charge of the multi-unit complex in
which any such rental property was located shall apply for and obtain rental
inspections and certificates of occupancy in accordance with the requirements
of this section.
   (G)   Any tenant or occupant of a rental property within a multi-unit
complex may at any time apply for a rental inspection for the purpose
ascertaining whether or not the rental property in question is then in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter by making application for such
inspection to the village, and providing a copy of the same to the owner, agent
or person in charge of any existing multi-unit complex. The tenant or occupant
of the rental property in question shall be responsible for the payment of
applicable fees for such an inspection, and the inspection shall otherwise be
conducted pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 155.13) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-
17-2025)
§ 153.34 EXPIRATION OR REVOCATION OF A CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Certificates of occupancy issued for any rental unit shall expire and
be revoked immediately as a result of any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Non-renewal of a lease, including non-renewal of a lease as to less
than all lessees, tenants or occupants of a single rental property leased,
occupied or shared by multiple lessees, tenants or occupants;
      (2)   Eviction of any existing tenant by the owner, agent or property
manager, including the eviction of less than all lessees, tenants or occupants
of a single rental property leased, occupied or shared by multiple lessees,
tenants or occupants, or the addition of a new tenant;
      (3)   Vacation of the rental property by the lessee, tenant or sublessee,
including the vacation of a rental property by less than all lessees, tenants
or occupants of a single rental property leased, occupied or shared by multiple
lessees, tenants or occupants;
      (4)   Sale of the property or transfer of ownership; or
      (5)   Violation of the Property Maintenance Code causing endangerment to
the health, safety and welfare of the tenant or tenants.
   (B)   An expired or revoked certificate of occupancy shall be reissued upon
reapplication by the owner, agent or person in charge of the property and
fulfillment of all of the conditions of this chapter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this section, a
certificate of occupancy issued for a rental property in a multi-unit complex
shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of issuance, and shall
only be subject to prior revocation in the event of the occurrence of a
violation of the Property Maintenance Code causing endangerment to the health,
safety and welfare of the tenant or tenants.
(Prior Code, § 155.14) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 12-0987, passed 5-
2-2012; Ord. 14-1120, passed 5-21-2014; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-17-2025)
§ 153.35 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Any person or persons who violate, disobey, omit, neglect or refuse to
comply with or who resists the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter
shall incur penalties pursuant to the section entitled “penalties” in the
currently adopted property maintenance code of the village and stipulated in §
153.99.
(Prior Code, § 155.15) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-
17-2025) Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 153.36 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued or action taken in
connection with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter retains the
right to appeal the same to the Village Administrative Adjudication Hearing
Officer pursuant to the provisions stipulated by the section of §
41.20.
(Prior Code, § 155.16) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-
17-2025)
§ 153.37 LIABILITY.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy issued by the Code Official on behalf of
the village shall not be construed in any way to be a warranty or guarantee or
any matter with respect to the rental property for which it has been issued.
   (B)   Any Code Official, officer or employee who acts in good faith and
without malice in the discharge of their duties in enforcement of this chapter
is relieved of all personal liability pursuant to the provisions outlined in
the currently adopted Property Maintenance Code of the village.
(Prior Code, § 155.17) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 25-2031, passed 12-
17-2025)
§ 153.38 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   This chapter shall not prevent the village or any other person from
exercising any right, or from seeking any remedy, to which that person might
otherwise be entitled, or from filing any complaint with any other agency or
court of law or equity.
(Prior Code, § 155.18) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995)
§ 153.39 CHALLENGE OF VALIDITY.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any section, division
or provision of this chapter to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective, such
judgment shall not affect any other section, division or provision of this
chapter not specifically included in said judgment. If any court of competent
jurisdiction shall adjudge the application of any section, division or
provision of this chapter to any person or circumstance to be unconstitutional,
void or ineffective, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
section, division or provision to any other person or circumstance not
specifically included in said judgment.
(Prior Code, § 155.19) (Ord. 2340-95, passed 6-7-1995)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
title or chapter shall, unless otherwise specified, be fined not less than $100
or more than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 155.99) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996; Ord. 12-0987, passed 5-
2-2012)
CHAPTER 154: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY LICENSING AND CRIME-FREE HOUSING
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Interpretation and application of code
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Residential rental license required
   
154.05   Crime-free housing
   
154.06   Inspections
   
154.07   Nuisance residential rental property
   
154.08   Enforcement procedures
   
154.09   Effective date and implementation
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the annual licensing of
residential rental property so as to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the village in the following manner:
   (A)   Providing minimum standards for the maintenance, operation, use and
appearance of residential rental properties;
   (B)   Preventing living conditions that adversely affect or are likely to
adversely affect the life, safety, health and general welfare of persons
occupying rental dwelling units;
   (C)   Preserving the value of land and buildings throughout the village; and
   (D)   Reducing and preventing crime in residential rental properties and
throughout the village.
(Prior Code, § 156.01) (Ord. 16-1260, passed 3-2-2016)
§ 154.02 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF CODE.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this code or
ordinances shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the protection
of the public health, safety and welfare of the village. This code and the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 Edition, with all local
amendments as adopted by the village, shall apply as minimum standards for
maintenance of residential rental housing, as set forth in Chapter 151 and
Chapter 153. Where the requirements of this code vary from any other lawfully
adopted state or village laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, codes, deed
restrictions or covenants, the more restrictive or that imposing the higher
standards shall govern. The village does not enforce any private covenants
between land owners or tenants nor does it adjudicate or resolve conflicts
between neighboring property owners.
(Prior Code, § 156.02) (Ord. 16-1260, passed 3-2-2016)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, in accordance with occupancy limitations,
including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
sanitation.
   GUEST. An individual who is present at a tenant’s dwelling unit by
invitation, consent, permission or assent of the lawful tenant, and who is not
an owner, occupant or tenant of that dwelling unit. A GUEST remains classified
as such only while the individual’s stay does not exceed 30 consecutive
calendar days. Any individual who remains in the dwelling unit beyond 30
consecutive days shall no longer be considered a GUEST and shall be treated as
an occupant or tenant for the purposes of this chapter.
   OPERATE. To own, manage, maintain, rent, lease, advertise or offer for rent
or lease any residential rental property or any dwelling unit therein for the
purpose of renting to others.
   OVERNIGHT VISITOR. A guest who remains within a dwelling unit for more than
12 consecutive hours, including during nighttime hours, but whose total
presence does not exceed 14 consecutive calendar days, nor more than 20 days
within any 60-day period.
      (1)   All OVERNIGHT VISITORS must be present with the knowledge and
consent of the lawful tenant.
      (2)   An OVERNIGHT VISITOR who exceeds the time limits set forth above
shall be classified as a guest.
      (3)   A guest who exceeds the 30 consecutive day limit shall be treated
as an occupant or tenant under this chapter.
   OWNER. The person or persons, jointly or severally, that hold the legal or
equitable title or the most substantial or controlling portion thereof to a
parcel of property, including a mortgage holder in possession. Without
otherwise limiting the generality of the foregoing, an OWNER shall include all
persons or entities that lease or otherwise allow any persons other than such
owner to occupy or possess any residential rental property as herein defined.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, beneficial interest holder, association or any other legal or commercial
entity.
   PROPERTY. Any unimproved or improved real property or portion thereof
situated in the village, including the buildings or structures located on the
property regardless of condition.
   PROPERTY AGENT. A natural person designated in writing to the village as
having authority to manage a residential rental property including the
authority to receive notices or citations. Such a person shall reside or
maintain regular office/business premises at a location within 50 miles of the
corporate limits of the village. An owner of five or more residential rental
properties must have a PROPERTY AGENT meeting the foregoing requirements with
respect to such properties. An owner of five or more residential rental
properties may designate themself as property agent for such properties if they
comply with the foregoing requirements. Owners of four or less residential
properties shall not be required to use or maintain a PROPERTY AGENT with
respect to such rental properties.
   RENT. To provide or offer for possession or occupancy any residential rental
property, as herein defined.
   RENTAL LICENSE. A license required for any owner of a residential building,
structure, dwelling or dwelling unit who rents, leases or controls any portion
of the property, building or structure to another person, business, corporation
or entity for any fixed period of time.
   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any dwelling unit that is located either within a multi-family
dwelling unit, a townhome structure, a single-family detached residence or a
single-family attached residence or that is rented, leased or subleased to an
occupant is intended for occupancy by one other than the owner, or a dwelling
unit occupied by a contract purchaser under an installment land contract.
Notwithstanding the absence of a traditional written or oral lease, a dwelling
unit or commercial/industrial space or building that is located either within a
multi-family dwelling unit, townhome structure, single-family detached
residence or a single-family attached residence shall nonetheless be deemed to
be a rental property where, under the totality of the circumstances, it appears
that the property is intended to be used and occupied by persons other than the
real or substantial owner thereof.
      (2)   Factors relevant to the determination that a property is a rental
property, within the meaning of the preceding sentence, shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, the following:
         (a)   The identity of the persons or entities shown on the tax bill
for the property in question;
         (b)   The identity of the person or entity shown on the bills or
accounts for utility services to the property in question;
         (c)   Whether the occupant(s) of the property in question have
provided any form of periodic or other consideration to any other party as a
condition of the ability of the occupant to occupy the property in question;
         (d)   The identity of the person or entity responsible for repairs and
maintenance to the property in question, whether such person or entity occupies
the property in question, and whether such person or entity receives
compensation for performing repairs and maintenance to the property in
question;
         (e)   Whether the property in question is occupied by persons
collectively holding a majority of the beneficial interest in any land trust in
which title to the property in question is held together with the power of
direction over such land trust, or whether the property is occupied by persons
collectively holding a minority of the beneficial interest in any land trust in
which title to the property in question is held, without the power of direction
over such land trust;
         (f)   The relative proportions of beneficial interest in any land
trust holding title to the property in question held by occupants of the
property in question as compared to non-occupants of the property in question;
         (g)   The absence of any familial relationship between the occupants
of the property and the non-occupant holders of beneficial interest in any land
trust holding title to the property in question;
         (h)   The relative proportion of ownership interest or title to the
property held by owner-occupants as compared to the proportion of ownership
interest or title to the property held by non-occupant owners of the property
in question, regardless of the form or means by which such ownership or title
interests are held;
         (i)   Whether the property in question is occupied by persons
collectively holding a majority of the ownership interest in or title to the
property, regardless of the form or means by which such ownership interests or
title is held; and
         (j)   The presence or absence of any familial relationship between the
occupant-owners and the non-occupant owners, regardless of the form or means by
which such ownership or title interests are held.
   TENANT. The person or persons occupying the residential rental property
pursuant to a rental agreement or lease for income or for payment to the owner
in return for the right to occupy or use the residential rental property.
   UNKNOWN OCCUPANT.
      (1)   Any individual found residing, lodging, sleeping, storing personal
belongings or regularly entering or exiting a dwelling unit without the
consent, knowledge or authorization of the property owner, property manager or
lawful tenant, and whose presence is not recorded, reported or reasonably
identifiable as a guest or overnight visitor. An UNKNOWN OCCUPANT includes, but
is not limited to:
         (a)   Individuals staying in a dwelling unit without the permission of
the lawful tenant or property owner;
         (b)   Individuals who exceed guest or overnight visitor time limits
without disclosure; and
         (c)   Individuals whose conduct, presence or stored belongings
indicate habitation or residency regardless of their stated purpose.
      (2)   An UNKNOWN OCCUPANT shall be presumed an unauthorized occupant and
shall be subject to the enforcement, compliance and removal procedures set
forth in this chapter and related village code provisions.
(Prior Code, § 156.03) (Ord. 16-1260, passed 3-2-2016; Ord. 17-1367, passed 5-
3-2017; Ord. 25-2032, passed 12-17-2025)
§ 154.04 RESIDENTIAL RENTAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or rent any residential property without
having obtained a license for such property from the village. All licenses
shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and this
code. Each license shall be issued only to the premises and the owner named in
the application. No change of location will be permitted. Licenses shall not be
transferable or assignable.
   (B)   This licensing requirement shall not apply to:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings for which a certificate of occupancy is not
required under Chapter 153;
      (2)   Hotels and motels;
      (3)   Nursing homes, retirement centers, rest homes or hospices licensed,
inspected and governed by state or federal laws, rules or regulations;
      (4)   Group homes governed by 405 ILCS 25/1 et seq., as amended,
Specialized Living Centers Act, dealing with the developmentally disabled or
other similar uses governed by state or federal laws, rules or regulations;
      (5)   Dormitories or similar housing operated by a university, college or
other institution of higher learning;
      (6)   Residential rental property located in a subdivision or
development, the occupancy of which is intended or operated for persons aged 55
or over, in accordance with the Federal Housing for Older Persons Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., or other applicable law; and
      (7)   Residential rental property owned by the adult child(ren) (and/or
their spouses) of the occupants thereof, where all of such occupants are either
55 years of age or older, or are disabled, within the meaning of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., or the
Illinois Human Rights Act, 775 ILCS 5 et seq., and where no other persons are
occupants of such residential real property; provided, however, that such
residential real property shall in all cases remain subject to the applicable
inspectional and other requirements of Chapter 153.
   (C)   Each applicant for a residential rental license shall file a written
application and shall submit the following information on an application
provided by the village:
      (1)   Name, postal address and home and business telephone numbers of the
owner of the property.
      (2)   If property is held in trust, the name, postal address, home and
business telephone numbers of the beneficiaries; the percentages of the
ownership of all the beneficiaries of the trust; appropriate corporate or
partnership information, including the name of the registered agent, president,
manager or managing partner; and the name, postal address and phone number of
the property manager or management company representing the owner;
      (3)   Name, postal address (no P.O. boxes), email address and business,
home and mobile telephone numbers of the owner and property agent to be
contacted when potential violations of municipal ordinances occur. No license
application shall be approved without the appointment of a property manager and
the provision of this contact information;
      (4)   Telephone number of the owner (or property agent, if the owner is
required to maintain a property agent) to be contacted when an emergency
exists;
      (5)   An acknowledgment that an owner or property agent shall be
reasonably accessible to the village and have a telephone number which shall be
available to the village at any time; and
      (6)   An acknowledgment that the rental property shall undergo an
inspection by the village pursuant to Chapter 153. No license shall be issued
or renewed unless the owner or operator agrees in their application to
inspection pursuant to Chapter 153. No license shall be issued or renewed
without proof that the residential rental property has been inspected and a
current and valid certificate of occupancy has been issued for such residential
rental property as required by the provisions of Chapter 153.
   (D)   In the event any of the information requested for a residential rental
license should change, it shall be the obligation of the owner to notify the
village in writing within ten days of the change.
   (E)   (1)   The cost of an annual license shall be as follows:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling unit: $75 per residential dwelling unit
for the initial license, and $65 per residential dwelling unit for subsequent
license renewals where the owner attends the required crime-free housing
seminar by means of viewing a village-approved online presentation. The license
renewal fee for owners attending a live/in person village crime-free housing
seminar shall remain $75; and
         (b)   Apartment and multi-family buildings, (more than one unit per
building): $100 per residential building.
      (2)   Licenses shall be issued on a calendar year basis, beginning
January 1 of each year, and expiring on December 31 of each year. If ownership
of a residential rental property changes during a license year, a new license
shall be required. License fees shall not be prorated. A late fee of $25 shall
be charged to any licensee for the issuance of a residential rental license for
a given calendar year where such license is issued after January 1 of the
calendar year for which such license is required, in addition to the otherwise
applicable fees for the license.
   (F)   An owner may renew their residential rental property license at the
expiration thereof, if the owner intends to continue to rent; provided that all
qualifications to receive the license have been met, the owner has paid all
applicable business license fees and any other fees and monies owed to the
village and the residential rental property is suitable for its purpose.
Renewal privileges shall not be construed as a vested right.
   (G)   Multi-unit complex exemption.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, any
development containing residential rental properties that constitutes a multi-
unit complex shall be exempt from the provisions of this Chapter 153.
      (2)   As used in this chapter, a MULTI-UNIT COMPLEX shall consist of and
include any development containing or having appropriate development approvals
from the village to contain 175 or more residential rental properties under
common ownership, which is professionally managed by personnel employed by or
under contract to the owner thereof, and which includes the following listed
amenities:
         (a)   A clubhouse or common building intended and available for use by
multi-unit complex residents;
         (b)   Recreational facilities for multi-unit complex residents,
including, but not necessarily limited to, a swimming pool, fitness center or
outdoor patio/gathering area; and
         (c)   Common open space improved with pedestrian walking paths or
sidewalks and areas for pet exercise.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to exempt any multi-unit complex
from compliance with the provisions of any other chapter of this code,
including, but not limited to, the provisions of Chapter 153.
   (H)   Voluntary multi-unit complex compliance. Notwithstanding the
provisions of division (G) above, any development constituting a multi-unit
complex as set forth in division (G) above may elect to comply with and be
bound by the provisions of this
Chapter 153 in the same manner and to the same extent as any residential rental
properties not exempt from this
Chapter 153 by submitting a residential rental license application pursuant to
division (C) above, and noting on the application that it is submitted
voluntarily pursuant to this division (H). Notwithstanding any contrary
provision of this chapter, there shall be no fees due or owing with respect to
any voluntary residential rental license application submitted under this
division (H). Upon the issuance of a license pursuant to an application made
under this division (H), the multi-unit complex described in the license
application shall be subject to the provisions of this
Chapter 153 for the term of the license so issued.
(Prior Code, § 156.04) (Ord. 16-1260, passed 3-2-2016; Ord. 16-1322, passed 10-
5-2016; Ord. 17-1349, passed 1-25-2017; Ord. 19-1566, passed 5-1-2019; Ord. 20-
1635, passed 5-6-2020) Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.05 CRIME-FREE HOUSING.
   (A)   Rental license.
      (1)   All persons applying for a rental license for residential property
shall have successfully completed a mandatory crime-free housing seminar,
administered by the Police Department, prior to issuance of the license. The
crime-free housing seminar shall also include a training component pertaining
to landlord responsibilities under the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601
through 3619. The seminar may be attended after an application has been
submitted. The license will be issued only after successful completion of the
seminar. All persons with a rental license shall take a “refresher” seminar
every three years. Owners of single-family residential dwelling units shall be
eligible to take the required “refresher” seminar by viewing and participating
in an online program to be developed by the Police Department.
      (2)   In lieu of completing the seminar or refresher course required by
division (A) above, applicants for a rental license for residential property
may provide documentation to the Police Department evidencing that the
applicant has completed a comparable landlord training/crime-free housing
course of instruction in another municipality, covering substantially the same
material as the seminar or refresher course offered by the Police Department.
The Police Department shall retain the discretion to determine whether a course
of instruction provided by another jurisdiction is comparable and covers
substantially the same material as its seminar or refresher seminar.
   (B)   Crime-free lease addendum.
      (1)   Any owner or property agent entering into leases regarding
residential rental property shall utilize a crime-free lease addendum or
include a clause in the lease substantially similar to a crime-free lease
addendum. All leases and crime-free lease addendums used in connection with the
leasing of residential real property or residential units licensed under this
chapter shall be in writing. Samples of crime-free lease addendums shall be
available from the Police Department. The Department shall review any clauses
within actual leases to determine if the clause is substantially similar to the
required crime-free lease addendum. The village may from time to time update
the required provisions of the crime-free lease addendum. All owners or
property agents shall advise prospective tenants of the required crime-free
lease addendum prior to entering into any lease or rental agreement. The crime-
free lease addendum shall make criminal activity a lease violation and shall
specify that criminal activity is not limited to violent criminal activity or
drug-related criminal activity engaged in by, facilitated by or permitted by
the tenant, a member of the household, a guest or any party under the control
of the tenant. The operator or property agent shall take all reasonable action
to enforce the terms of the crime-free housing addendum by initiating an
eviction proceeding as specified in the Illinois forcible entry and detainer
statutes, see 735 ILCS 5/9-101 et seq. Proof of a criminal violation shall be
by a preponderance of the evidence.
      (2)   It shall constitute a violation of this chapter for any owner or
property agent to knowingly permit any tenant to occupy any residential rental
property without entering into a crime-free lease addendum or to occupy any
residential rental property in violation of any provision of the crime-free
lease addendum required under this chapter. Any failure to include a crime-free
lease addendum or similarly approved language may result in suspension or
revocation of the residential rental license. Any failure of an owner to take
reasonable action to enforce the terms of the crime-free lease addendum after
having been notified by the Police Department of activity of conduct occurring
on the residential rental property in violation of the addendum, and after
receiving a reasonable opportunity to remedy such activity or conduct, shall be
sufficient grounds for the suspension or revocation of their residential rental
license.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter or of this
code, no owner or property agent shall take any action under a crime-free lease
addendum required hereunder to the extent that such action violates the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.5(b).
      (4)   No owner or property agent entering into leases regarding
residential rental property shall enter into any such leases without having
first performed a criminal background check on the prospective tenants. The
background check shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable laws.
      (5)   No owner or property agent entering into leases or crime-free
housing lease addendums regarding residential rental property shall permit any
tenants to occupy any such residential real property without having first
provided copies of all leases and crime-free housing lease addendums to the
Police Department, together with an affidavit attesting that the owner or
property agent has complied with the criminal background check requirements of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 156.05) (Ord. 16-1260, passed 3-2-2016; Ord. 16-1322, passed 10-
5-2016; Ord. 17-1349, passed 1-25-2017) Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.06 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All residential rental properties shall be subject to inspection as
provided for in Chapter 153. Completion of property inspections required by
Chapter 153 shall be a condition to the issuance or renewal of any residential
rental license under this chapter.
   (B)   The owners and designated property agents shall be responsible for
informing their tenants of any scheduled inspection or re-inspection of any
residential rental property required under
Chapter 153, and they shall be responsible for requesting permission from any
person whose consent is necessary for village personnel to enter the property
if that person is not home at the time of the inspection or re-inspection. All
such inspections and re-inspections shall be documented by a written report. In
the event that the owner and/or designated property agents dispute the facts
contained in any written report of any inspection or re-inspection, or the
application of
Chapter 153 to those facts, the owner and/or designated property agents may
appeal the decision reflected in the written inspection report or re-inspection
report by so notifying the Village Manager in writing via regular United States
Mail addressed to the Village Manger - Inspection Appeal Notice, 1050 W. Romeo
Road, Romeoville, Illinois 60446, within seven days of the date of the written
inspection or re-inspection report. The Village Manager shall schedule a
hearing date within 21 days of the date of the written inspection or
reinspection report in writing via regular United States Mail addressed to the
property owner or property agent at such addresses as they shall have provided
to the village in the application(s) made under this chapter. The issues to be
reviewed on appeal shall be limited to the factual matters referenced in the
written inspection or re-inspection reports, and the application of the
provisions of
Chapter 153 to those facts. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at
such a hearing, but only evidence relevant to the issues under review shall be
received. The Village Manager shall issue a written decision on the appeal
within seven days of the date of the hearing. By written agreement, the Village
Manager and any property owner or property agent may agree to modify the timing
and scheduling of the appeal hearing. The village shall provide notice to both
the owner and the tenant, on a form provided by the village, of the owner’s
and/or tenant’s right to refuse consent, as applicable, to the residential
licensing inspection and to require the village to obtain an administrative
search warrant. If any tenant, occupant or other person in control and/or
possession and whose consent to inspect is necessary concerning a residential
rental property or a dwelling unit contained therein fails or refuses to
consent to access and entry to the property or dwelling unit under their
control for any residential licensing inspection required by this chapter, the
village may apply to the Circuit Court for an administrative search warrant.
The application for the administrative search warrant shall specify the basis
upon which the warrant is being sought and shall include a statement that the
inspection shall be limited to a determination whether there are any violations
of the minimum property maintenance standards of the village as set forth in
Chapters
151 and
153. Nothing set forth herein shall limit the right of an owner or tenant, as
applicable, to grant the village access to the dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 156.06) (Ord. 16-1260, passed 3-2-2016)
§ 154.07 NUISANCE RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY.
   It is declared a nuisance and to be against the health, safety, peace and
comfort of the village for any property owner or owner’s agent to allow or
permit the following.
   (A)   Rental of a rental unit, or residential rental property, to a tenant
who allows any of the following offenses to occur on or near the rental unit or
residential real property, common areas or appurtenances leased to or used by
the tenant: murder, kidnapping, sexual assault, robbery, burglary, aggravated
kidnapping, prostitution, solicitation of prostitution, pandering, obscenity,
child pornography, sale or distribution of obscene publications, criminal
housing management, possession of explosives, unlawful use of weapons, sale of
firearms, gambling, keeping a gambling place, concealing a fugitive, violation
of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq., violation
of the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq., or commission of any other
crime under state or federal law not specifically listed above or the offense
of fighting in violation of §
134.03. Prohibition of these offenses applies also to members of the tenant’s
household, guests or other parties under control of the tenant.
   (B)   Rental of a rental unit or residential rental property to a tenant who
commits or allows or permits the commission of four or more violations of any
of the following enumerated provisions of this code on or near the rental unit
or residential real property leased to the tenant, or on or near the common
areas or appurtenances thereof. The prohibition of these offenses applies also
to members of the tenant’s household, guests or other parties under control of
the tenant:
      (1)   Section
134.01 - Disorderly conduct; and
      (2)   Section
134.04 - Reckless conduct.
   (C)   For purposes of division (A) and (B) above, it shall be sufficient
evidence that a described offense occurred if the offender has been arrested or
cited for one or more of the offenses described in division (A) above.
   (D)   If the residential rental property constitutes a nuisance as
hereinabove provided, the property owner shall be liable for a violation of
this section, and shall be subject to fines as provided in this code, shall be
subject to having their license revoked as provided herein and shall be subject
to the commencement of an enforcement action under this chapter; provided,
however, that none of the preceding sanctions shall be imposed other than by a
court order issued by a judge or by an order issued by an administrative
hearing officer in judicial or administrative adjudication proceedings duly
commenced by the village pursuant to §
154.08.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any enforcement action for an alleged
violation of this section that the property owner or property agent has taken
and is diligently pursuing action to enforce the provisions of the crime-free
lease addendum applicable to the residential real property.
(Prior Code, § 156.07) (Ord. 16-1260, passed 3-2-2016; Ord. 17-1423, passed 12-
6-2017; Ord. 20-1635, passed 5-6-2020)
§ 154.08 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All sworn personnel of the Police Department and all members of the
Code Enforcement Division thereof are authorized to exercise the police power
of the village through judicial enforcement proceedings or alternatively
through administrative adjudication proceedings commenced under Chapter 41 in
such manner and to such extent as any of them shall determine that the
character of the violation and the interests of public health, safety and
welfare warrant to secure compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
this code.
   (B)   The sworn personnel of the Police Department and all members of the
Code Enforcement Division thereof are authorized and shall demand compliance
with the provisions of this title and this code through judicial enforcement
actions, including, but not limited to, prosecution for violations, and to
recover any penalty or fine and costs; the institution of the appropriate
action of law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation; to
require the removal of the unlawful use; or to prevent the continued occupancy
of any residential real property in violation of the provisions of this
chapter. In addition, in such judicial enforcement actions, they may seek the
revocation of any license issued hereunder if the licensee is in continuing
violation of any law or ordinance, or if a nuisance violation pertaining to
tenant activity on the premises has or continues to occur, or if the licensee
is operating in a manner otherwise prohibited by any chapter of this code.
Prior written notice of a violation shall not be required for the initiation of
judicial enforcement actions. The sworn personnel of the Police Department and
all members of the Code Enforcement Division thereof shall institute or cause
to be instituted the appropriate legal proceedings to prosecute, restrain,
correct or abate any violation or to require removal or termination of the
unlawful use of the premises, building or structure in violation of the
provisions of this title or of any order or direction made pursuant thereto.
Without limiting or affecting the aforesaid authority of the sworn personnel of
the Police Department and all members of the Code Enforcement Division thereof
to demand compliance with this title or this code by any of the aforementioned
means, all such sworn personnel of the Police Department and members of the
Code Enforcement Division thereof shall further be authorized to initial
administrative adjudication proceedings pursuant to Chapter 41 as a means of
demanding compliance with the provisions of this title or of this code.
   (C)   All judicial enforcement actions under this chapter shall be commenced
in accordance with the applicable provisions of Article 1, Division 2 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 et seq.) and all administrative
adjudication proceedings to enforce the provisions of this chapter shall be
commenced pursuant to
Chapter 41.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation that fails to obtain a license when
required or operates a residential rental property without such a license that
violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the initiation of a judicial enforcement
action or administrative adjudication proceeding as set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Any person or legal entity that violates any provision of this chapter
or of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof shall
be subject to a fine for each offense of not less than $150 nor more than $750,
in addition to any equitable relief, abatement action, compliance action or
license revocation that may be obtained in any judicial enforcement action or
administrative adjudication proceeding to enforce this chapter. Each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. For properties which
contain multiple rented or leased units, each lease or rental agreement which
fails to comply with the provisions of this code shall be construed as a
separate offense.
   (F)   Any person or legal entity charged with any violation of this chapter
that has since come into compliance and that desires to avoid further
enforcement proceedings in advance of the initial date for a court appearance
in a judicial enforcement action under this chapter may avoid the further
prosecution of such action by the payment of a fine to the village in the
amount of $50, and the abatement of the violation and presentation to the
village of an affidavit and agreement of compliance and waiver of any right to
further proceedings in such action. The failure to make payment of such fine,
to bring any applicable violation into compliance and to submit an acceptable
affidavit and agreement of compliance and waiver of any right to further
proceedings in such action not less than 14 calendar days prior to the initial
court date in such matter shall result in the continuation of the judicial
enforcement action. In the event that payment of the fine, achievement of
compliance and the submission of an affidavit and agreement of compliance to
the village are completed at least 14 days prior to the initial court date in
such matter, the village shall dismiss the then pending judicial enforcement
action. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the village reserves
the right to investigate and verify compliance and all information presented in
any affidavit and agreement of compliance, and to reject the same if found to
be incomplete, inaccurate, false, misleading or untruthful; in such a case,
there shall be no dismissal of the then pending judicial enforcement action.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter or this code,
no judicial enforcement action or administrative adjudication proceeding to
enforce this chapter shall be taken by the village that violates the provisions
of 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.5(b).
(Prior Code, § 156.08) (Ord. 16-1260, passed 3-2-2016; Ord. 19-1566, passed 5-
1-2019)
§ 154.09 EFFECTIVE DATE AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   The provisions of §§
154.01 through and including
154.08 shall apply to all leases entered into or renewed from and after the
adoption thereof by the corporate authorities of the village, and the owner and
their property agents shall be obligated to comply with such provisions as of
such date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, owners and property agents who own or
manage residential rental property that is subject to an existing lease which
is in full force and effect as of the adoption of the provisions of §§
154.01 through and including
154.08 shall not be required to bring such residential rental property into
full compliance with such provisions until such time as the existing lease of
such residential property has expired, is renewed or sought to be renewed or
one year has elapsed from the adoption of the provisions of §§
154.01 through and including
154.08, whichever shall first occur.
(Prior Code, § 156.09) (Ord. 16-1260, passed 3-2-2016)
CHAPTER 155: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
155.01   Adoption of plan
   
155.02   Future land use map
   
155.03   Area and component plans
   
155.04   Inspection of documents
§ 155.01 ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   The comprehensive plan for the village, as prepared by the Village Planning
and Zoning Commission and as recommended for adoption by the Board of Trustees,
is adopted as the “official plan” of the village (Ord. 17-1391). Said plan,
entitled “Comprehensive Plan Update,” created by Teska Associates and dated May
19, 2017, is incorporated herein by reference, and a certified copy of same
shall be filed with the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 157.01) (Ord. 1079-89, passed 1-18-1989; Ord. 09-0787, passed 5-
5-2010; Ord. 17-1391, passed 7-19-2017; Ord. 23-1833, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 155.02 FUTURE LAND USE MAP.
   The future land use map for the village, dated March 15, 2023, is adopted
and incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 157.02) (Ord. 1079-89, passed 1-18-1989; Ord. 09-0787, passed 5-
5-2010; Ord. 23-1833, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 155.03 AREA AND COMPONENT PLANS.
   The documents incorporated in this section offer detailed guidance on
specific areas of planning, specific physical locations in the village or
specific design principals. These documents shall be incorporated herein by
reference.
   (A)   An ordinance amending
Chapter 155 (comprehensive plan), adopting the Downtown Romeoville
Redevelopment Master Plan (Ord. 03-0084), is adopted and incorporated herein by
reference.
   (B)   A resolution authorizing the acceptance of the Bike Trail Master Plan
(Res. 06-0528) is adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   A resolution authorizing the acceptance of the Recreation Department
Park Site Master Plan (Res. 09-1184) is adopted and incorporated herein by
reference.
   (D)   An ordinance amending
Chapter 155 (comprehensive plan) to adopt a Master Transportation Plan (Ord.
09-0788) is adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
   (E)   An ordinance amending
Chapter 155 (comprehensive plan) to adopt the East Side Plan (Ord. 12-0974) is
adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
   (F)   A resolution adopting the County Bikeway Plan for the village (Res.
19-2707) is adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 157.03) (Ord. 09-0787, passed 5-5-2010; Ord. 09-0788, passed 5-
5-2010; Ord. 12-0974, passed 4-18-2012; Ord. 23-1833, passed 3-15-2023)
§ 155.04 INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS.
   A certified copy of the comprehensive plan for the village, the future land
use map and the area and component plans shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
Copies shall be available at all times during business hours for public
inspection in the Community Development Department. Copies of the same shall be
made available to all interested parties upon payment of such sum as the
Village Board shall determine to be adequate to reimburse the General Fund for
the cost of printing.
(Prior Code, § 157.04) (Ord. 1079-89, passed 1-18-1989; Ord. 09-0787, passed 5-
5-2010; Ord. 23-1833, passed 3-15-2023)
CHAPTER 156: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Jurisdiction
   
156.03   Separability
   
156.04   Definitions
   
156.05   Administration and enforcement
Procedures
   
156.20   General requirements
   
156.21   Lot splits/lot consolidations
   
156.22   Preliminary plat of subdivision
   
156.23   Final plat of subdivision
   
156.24   Development/engineering plan
   
156.25   Agreements
Required Land Improvements
   
156.40   Design and construction standards
   
156.41   Required plans and specifications
   
156.42   Street improvements
   
156.43   Sidewalk and pedestrian ways
   
156.44   Street lighting
   
156.45   Storm sewers and drainageways
   
156.46   Sanitary sewers and distribution
   
156.47   Water distribution and supply
   
156.48   Other public utilities
   
156.49   Tree preservation and planting plan
   
156.50   Temporary roads; tracking dirt on streets
   
156.51   Public lands donation
 
   
156.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Tables
   
Appendix B:   Roadway Specifications
   
Appendix C:   Village of Romeoville Standard Details
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Because each new subdivision and/or development that is accepted by
the village becomes a permanent unit in the basic physical structure of the
future community, and to which the future community will, of necessity, be
forced to adhere, all subdivisions and/or developments hereafter planned within
the corporate limits of the village, and all developments and/or subdivisions
hereafter planned within the unincorporated areas lying one and one-half miles
beyond, shall, in all respects, be in full compliance with the regulations
contained in this chapter.
   (B)   These regulations are designed:
      (1)   To protect, provide and promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the village;
      (2)   To guide the future growth and development of the village in
accordance with the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy; to secure safety
from fire, flood and other dangers; and to prevent overcrowding of the land and
undue congestion of population;
      (4)   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of
all parts of the village, and to encourage the orderly and beneficial
development of all parts of the community;
      (5)   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the village
and value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
      (6)   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation and other public requirements and facilities;
      (7)   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of
land and buildings and circulation of traffic throughout the village, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings; and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building setback lines;
      (8)   To establish reasonable standards of design procedures for
developments, subdivisions and/or resubdivisions in order to further the
orderly layout and use of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and
monuments of subdivided land;
      (9)   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivisions and/or developments and
the areas reasonably anticipated to be served by those facilities;
      (10)   To prevent the pollution of air, streams and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the village in
order to preserve the integrity, stability and beauty of the community and the
value of the land;
      (11)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the village and
to ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features; and
      (12)   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the land, including the use of average density in providing for
minimum width and area of lots, while preserving the density of land as
established in the zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 158.001) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.02 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Developments. These regulations shall apply with respect to:
      (1)   Any development of any parcel of land involving construction of any
one or more single-family dwellings or two or more multiple-family dwelling
units within a singular building;
      (2)   Any development of any parcel of land under single ownership or
control involving the construction of any new building(s) or structure(s)
having a total floor area in excess of 500 square feet;
      (3)   Any development involving any major expansion of an existing
structure to which this section would apply if constructed new after the
effective date hereof;
      (4)   Any development of any parcel of land under single ownership or
control that will create more than two parking spaces in any residential zoning
district, one parking space in any business zoning district or one parking or
one loading space in any industrial zoning district; and
      (5)   Any development of any parcel of land involving the construction of
any public or private school, library, hospital or church, or any place of
public assembly; and
      (6)   Any development involving the construction of improvements in the
public right-of-way or on publicly-owned land.
   (B)   Subdivisions and/or developments. These regulations shall apply to
every subdivision and/or development (as defined herein) occurring within the
corporate limits of the village or in the unincorporated areas within one and
one-half miles of the village’s corporate limits, as those limits exist at the
time the subdivision and/or development occurs.
   (C)   Interpretation of terms. The language set forth in the text of this
code shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural singular;
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses and the
future the present;
      (3)   The word “shall” is mandatory, while the word “may” is permissive;
      (4)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter; and
      (5)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this code, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof, and any word appearing in parenthesis directly after a word herein
defined shall be construed in the same as that word.
(Prior Code, § 158.002) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.03 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any
reason held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 158.003) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person or persons seeking approval to subdivide or develop a
parcel, including the owner of record, contract purchaser, developers, other
persons having interest in the parcel and their successors.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-ways or other lines of demarcation.
A BLOCK may be located in part beyond the corporate limits of the village.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees for the village.
   BUILDING or STRUCTURE. Any covered structure built for the support, shelter
or enclosure of persons, animals or movable property of any kind, and which is
affixed permanently to the ground.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land which
denotes an area between that line and the adjacent street right-of-way line
where a building or any other obstructions that are prohibited except those
encroachments that are permitted by the zoning regulations.
   CHANNEL. The bed where natural stream of water flows (watercourse).
   COLLECTOR STREET. See STREETS COLLECTOR.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Privately-held land unoccupied by structures, building,
streets, right-of-way and automobile parking lots, and designed and intended
for the use and enjoyment of residents of a planned unit development; may
contain structures for recreational use, and upon approval by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Village Board, may also be used in part for water
detention purposes.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The “official comprehensive plan” of the village as
outlined by Chapter 155.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with a single outlet, and permanently terminated
by a vehicle turnaround.
   DEVELOP or DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any constructed change to real estate including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, repair or replacement of a
building or an addition to a building;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than 180 days. If the travel trailer or recreational vehicle is
on-site for less than 180 days, it must be fully licensed and ready for highway
use;
         (c)   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads,
bridges or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams or
culverts, channel modifications, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other non-agricultural alterations of the ground surface, storage materials,
deposit of solids or liquid waste;
         (e)   Any other activity of humans that might change the direction,
height or velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation
removal;
         (f)   Plowing and cultivation and other similar agricultural practices
that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees as regulated in
§§
57.090 through
57.094; and
         (g)   Any construction activity taking place in public right-of-way or
on public property.
      (2)   The following are not considered development: maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities, such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads
with an impervious surface when there is no increase in elevation or lot
coverage.
   DEVELOPER. The applicant or petitioner for a development plan, including any
person, firm or corporation having a freehold interest, a possessory interest
entitle to exclusive possession, a contractual interest which may become a
freehold interest, an option to purchase or any exclusive possessory interest
so as to commence and maintain proceedings under the provisions of this
chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT SECURITY. An instrument of security, drawn upon a financial
institution in favor of the village in the amount of 125% of the estimated
improvements that guarantees the proper construction and installation of the
public improvements being proposed within the subdivision and/or development.
Such instrument may include a letter of credit, bond, cash or other instrument
approved by the village.
   DRAINAGE COURSE. A watercourse or indenture for the drainage of surface
water.
   DRIVEWAY. A private access-way for motor vehicles between a public or
private street and one or more structures or off-street parking areas.
   EASEMENT. A quantity of land set aside over or under which the liberty,
privilege and access to the land is granted either to public utilities,
government, a particular person or a combination of all for the installation
and maintenance of said utilities.
   FINAL PLAT. A final drawing platting a subdivision and/or development, and
any accompanying material, as described in this chapter.
   FIRE LANE. Shall be established in Chapter 91.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA. A continuous area adjacent to a stream, its tributaries or
any stormwater retention area, whose elevation is equal to or lower than the
flood crest elevation, including also land having an elevation higher than
flood crest elevations, but less than ten acres in area and surrounded by land
in a FLOODPLAIN AREA or an area of such elevation secured by land fill,
projecting into a FLOODPLAIN AREA. Any point shall be deemed to be within the
FLOODPLAIN AREA if it falls below the elevation of a high water mark, as the
elevation of the mark is projected in horizontal directions perpendicular to
the flow of the stream and thence to the intersections at an equal elevation
with the land on either side of the stream. Any point between the afore
described projections of any two high water marks shall be deemed with the
FLOODPLAIN AREA if it is at an elevation equal to or lower than similar
projections of the interpolated flood crest elevations. The interpolated flood
crest is the calculated elevation of the flood crest at the centerline of the
stream between two known flood crests of the nearest upstream and downstream
high water marks; and the difference in elevation between the flood crest at
this location and at either of the high-water mark projections is directly
proportional to the difference in stream centerline distance between the two
high water mark projections is directly proportional to the difference in
stream centerline distance between the two high water mark projections.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A minor road which is parallel to, and either adjacent to or
within, the right-of-way of a thoroughfare.
   LAND IMPROVEMENT. Any sanitary sewerage system, storm sewer system, water
supply and distribution system, roadway, side-stripe, sidewalk, pedestrian way,
no-access strip, off-street parking, lot grading or other improvement which the
village may require under this chapter.
   LOT. A parcel of land legally described and subdivided as a single lot,
occupied or intended for occupancy by one principal building, together with its
accessory structures and uses, including the yards required by the zoning
ordinance, and having a frontage on a public or private street or easement,
except that a planned development may have two or more principal buildings
which need not front on a street or easement.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lot lines.
   LOT, BUTT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot which adjoins the point of intersection of two or more
streets in which the interior angle formed by the street lines is 135 degrees
or less. If the street lines are curved, the angle shall be measured at the
point of the intersection of the extensions of the street lines in the
direction they take at the intersection of the street line with the side lot
line and rear lot line of the lot. If the street is curved at its point of
intersection with the side lot or rear lot line, the tangent to the curve at
that point shall be considered the direction of the street.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance between the midpoint of the front lot line and the
midpoint of the rear lot line.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two
more or less parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot. A DOUBLE FRONTAGE
LOT is also known as a “through lot.”
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front boundary of a lot along a public or private street.
   LOT INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding a lot, which include the following:
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. The boundary of lot which adjoins a street;
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT LINE. A lot line which does not abut a street;
      (3)   REAR LOT LINE. The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and
is, or almost nearly is, parallel to the front lot line. In the case of an
irregular, triangular or gore-shaped lot, parallel to and at maximum distance
from the front lot line; and
      (4)   SIDE LOT LINE. A lot line other than front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision and/or development, the
plat of which has been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds,
or a parcel of land the deed of which was recorded in the Recorder of Deeds
Office prior to the effective date of the chapter.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot, the rear lot line of which adjoins upon
the side lot line of another lot.
   LOT, THROUGH. See LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.
   LOT WIDTH. The minimum horizontal distance between the lot lines of a lot
measured along the front building line, as provided in the zoning ordinance.
   MAJOR STREET. See STREET, MAJOR.
   MEDIAN. An area between opposite traffic lanes of a street or roadway or an
area between a street or roadway.
   MINOR STREET. See STREET, MINOR.
   NO ACCESS STRIP. A strip of land within and along a lot line adjoining a
street, which is designated on a recorded subdivision plat and/or development
plan, property deed, which motor vehicular travel shall not be permitted.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The official map of the village.
   OWNER or SUBDIVIDER. The applicant or petitioner for a subdivision and/or
development, including any person, firm or corporation having a freehold
interest which may become a freehold interest, an option to purchase or any
exclusive possessory interest so as to commence and maintain proceedings under
the provisions of this chapter.
   PARKWAY. The unpaved strip of land situated within the dedicated right-of-
way and located between the roadway and the right-of-way line or between the
back of the curb and the right-of-way lines.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. An area which is used or intended to be used by pedestrians
only, and is located within a right-of-way, easement or other permanently
dedicated areas.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A lot, tract or parcel of land which is developed
as a unit under single ownership or unified control, which includes one or more
principal buildings or uses, and is processed under the planned unit
development procedure of the zoning ordinance.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission for the
village.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A map or plan depicting a tentative land plan as described
in this chapter.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Includes interior streets, exterior streets, sidewalks,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains, improved drainage ways, bridges,
railroad crossings, utility poles and other structures, fixtures or land
appurtenances which are or are intended to be dedicated to the village and
public generally.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Any publicly-owned open area, including, but not limited
to, the following: parks, playgrounds, forest preserves, beaches, waterways,
parkways, streets and golf courses.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation or public agency duly
authorized to furnish under public regulations to the public, electricity, gas
steam, telephone, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, cable television,
transportation or water services.
   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities
for track operation, but not including depot loading platforms, stations, train
sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops, water towers and the
like.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land used or intended for use by a street,
pedestrian way, electric, railroad, gas or telephone transmission line, cable
television, water main, sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage way.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The shortest distance between the right-of-way lines.
   ROADWAY. See STREET.
   ROADWAY WIDTH. See STREET WIDTH.
   SCREENING. Decorative fencing or evergreen vegetation maintained for the
purpose of concealing from view the area behind the fencing or evergreen
vegetation, and regulated in §
157.032.
   SIDEWALK, PUBLIC. The portion of a street right-of-way which is used or
intended to be used as a pedestrian way.
   STREET. The portion of a right-of-way which affords primary means of access
by pedestrians and vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a
street, avenue, roadway, boulevard, easement or however otherwise designated.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A COLLECTOR STREET to conduct traffic between major
streets or activity centers. It is a principal traffic artery within
residential areas and carries moderate volumes of traffic. A COLLECTOR STREET
has potential for sustaining minor retail or other commercial establishments
along its route which will influence the traffic flow.
   STREET, EXTERIOR. A street on the perimeter of a subdivision and/or
development.
   STREET FRONTAGE. All of the property fronting on one side of a street
between two intersecting streets, or in the case of a dead-end or cul-de-sac
street, all of the property along one side of the street between an
intersecting street and the end of the dead-end or cul-de-sac street.
   STREET, INTERIOR. Any street within a proposed subdivision and/or
development, which is not an exterior street.
   STREET LENGTH. The distance measured from the intersection centerline of two
parallel streets that intersect with the street in question, and located at
opposite ends of that street.
   STREET LINES. A line separating an abutting lot or parcel from a street.
   STREET, MAJOR. A street with a high degree of continuity and serving as an
arterial traffic way between the various districts of the village and its
environs, and as shown on the official map and comprehensive plan of the
village.
   STREET, MINOR. A street of limited continuity. Its primary purpose is for
access to abutting properties and to serve the local needs of a district.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the right-of-way lines of a
given street.
   SUBDIVISION AND/OR DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into two or more parcels of land;
         (b)   Any division of land which created a lot for transfer of
ownership, or building development, where a new street is involved; and
         (c)   The dedication of streets, ways or other areas for use of the
public.
      (2)   SUBDIVISION AND/OR DEVELOP- MENT does not include the division of a
tract, parcel or lot into parcels or lots, all of which resultant parcels or
lots exceed five acres, and if a new street is not involved. A certified plat
of survey conforming with the applicable provisions of the development
regulations shall be required for the division of land when a new lot is
created for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, and a
new street is not involved.
   SUBDIVISION AND/OR DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS. The basic land-planning
principles established as guides for the preparation of preliminary and final
subdivision and/or development plans, as adopted by the village.
   SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. This document referred to as the development
regulations, this Chapter 156.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. The area of a subdivision and/or development, which is
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, and which is not devoted to public or
private roadways or driveways, and off-street parking and loading facilities;
is accessible and available only to occupants of dwelling units on the
premises; is not covered by buildings, except that not more than 5% of the
required open space may be recreational facilities enclosed within a building
for the use of the occupants of the dwelling units on the premises; and is
developed, landscaped and maintained suitable for pedestrian, recreational and
leisure use.
   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Administrator for the Village of
Romeoville.
   VILLAGE ATTORNEY. The Village Attorney for the Village of Romeoville.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Village Board for the Village of Romeoville. (See also
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.)
   VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk for the Village of Romeoville.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The Village Engineer for the Village of Romeoville.
   VILLAGE PLANNER. The Village Planner for the Village of Romeoville.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The Village President for the Village of Romeoville.
   YARD. An open area on a lot which is unobstructed from its lowest level to
the sky, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front
lot lines and the front yard line.
      (2)   INTERIOR SIDE YARD. A side yard which adjoins another lot.
      (3)   REAR YARD. A yard which is bounded by side lot tines, rear lot line
and the rear yard line.
      (4)   SIDE YARD. A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front
yard line, side yard line and side lot line.
   YARD LINE. A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which the
applicable yard extends and which is not nearer to the lot line at any point
than the required depth of the applicable yard extends and which is not nearer
to the lot line at any point than the required depth of the applicable yard. A
structure or other obstruction shall not encroach into the area between the
YARD LINE and the adjacent lot line, except for such permitted encroachments in
yards as are allowed in the zoning ordinance.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning ordinance (Chapter 157) for the village.
(Prior Code, § 158.004) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions of lot split and lot consolidation, see
Chapter 157
§ 156.05 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Fees and costs.
      (1)   All applications for subdivision and/or development plans shall be
accompanied by a fee in accordance with the fees adopted by Chapter 43.
      (2)   No plan shall be forwarded to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for review without this fee having first been paid. Payment of the fee is in no
way contingent of whether the plan of subdivision and/or development submitted
is approved or disapproved. In addition, the applicant shall submit, as part of
their application, evidence of title or other information demonstrating that
they have a valid contract or option to purchase the land for which the
application is made, or is the owner of record for that land.
   (B)   Village services. The cost incurred by the village for the review of
plans and specifications by the Village Engineer shall be paid by the
subdivider/developer according to the fee schedule in Chapter 43. Additional
services required for complex projects, including, but not limited to, outside
legal consultants, special inspectors or specialists in the stormwater,
building, construction, ecology, planning or related fields shall be paid for
by the developer.
   (C)   Completion of public improvements.
      (1)   All public improvements required under the provisions of this
chapter to be provided at the developer’s/subdivider’s expense shall be fully
completed by the owner or developer/subdivider, or both. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for any structure erected or to be erected on any lot
in the subdivision and/or development until such time as the subdivider shall
have completed such public improvements as are determined by the Village
Engineer to be necessary to provide reasonable access, adequate drainage and
proper water and sanitary sewage facilities to serve the lot on which the
structure is to be built. The Village Administrator, the Village Engineer or
their duly authorized representatives may compel the completion or repair of
any public improvements or other work or the performance of any other
obligation for which a development security is required, including by drawing
upon, making a claim against or expending sums from such development security
or by denying, suspending or withholding the review or approval of any
submittal made to the village by the developer or subdivider upon the
occurrence of any one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Completion of and issuance of certificates of occupancy for 75%
or more of the units in a residential subdivision;
         (b)   The passage of three years or more from the date of the
installation of the binder course of pavement;
         (c)   The passage of any 60 day or greater period during which the
developer or subdivider fails to actively, continuously and diligently during
all regular and customary working days during such two month or greater period
devote labor, time, efforts and resources in a good faith manner toward the
completion of the development or subdivision in question; and
         (d)   Deterioration or failure of any public improvement or other work
for which a development security is required or has been posted with the
village, where the developer or subdivider fails after 60 days’ written notice
of such deterioration or failure from the village to perform all work necessary
to remedy such deterioration or failure, or in cases where the deterioration or
failure by its nature or scope cannot reasonably be corrected within 60 days
after written notice of such deterioration or failure from the village, where
the developer or subdivider fails to actively, continuously and diligently
during such 60-day period and thereafter to reasonably devote labor, time,
efforts and resources in a good faith manner toward remedying such
deterioration or failure.
      (2)   All contracts for the construction of any public improvements shall
be subject, upon request, to review and approval by the Village Engineer prior
to the commencement of construction, and all such contracts shall contain
contractor’s warranties of material and professional skill or proficiency in
form and substance approved by the Village Engineer. The obligation of the
owner or developer/subdivider to provide public improvements shall include,
without limitation, the furnishing of all necessary surveys, engineering
drawings, working drawings, determinations of grade and location,
communications with contractors, review and approval of periodic payment
estimates and all other services customarily performed by a registered
professional engineer providing general supervision of such work, and the
village shall have no liability or responsibility for any such services. At all
times during the progress of construction of public improvements, the owner or
developer/subdivider shall permit the Village Administrator, the Village
Engineer and their duly authorized representatives to inspect any portion
thereof. If the Village Engineer determines that the improvements or any
portion thereof are not being constructed in accordance with the final plans
and specifications previously approved by the Village Engineer, the Village
Engineer shall have the right, with notice to the owner, to stop the work of
any contractor. The work shall not be resumed until the contractor shall
receive authorization from the Village Engineer for the resumption of the work.
      (3)   Grading and implementation of measures to control erosion and
ponding of water shall be accomplished at the subdivider’s expense in
accordance with the village’s standards and specifications, prior to filing
with the Village Engineer, the certificate of completion required by this
chapter or the expiration of two years from the approval of the final plat,
whichever is earlier. The Village Engineer shall prepare or cause to be
prepared such minimum specifications for grading, location of earth stockpiles,
drainage and erosion control which specifications shall be kept on file with
the Village Clerk for public review and inspection.
      (4)   During the construction phases of the subdivision and/or
development, and prior to acceptance by the village of the public improvements,
the subdivider/developer shall maintain in good condition and restore all
existing public improvements to prevent the material deterioration thereof, and
to assure that no imminent hazard to life or property within the subdivision
and/or development or the areas adjacent thereto shall exist. In the event that
the developer/subdivider fails to properly maintain or restore existing public
improvements, as required herein, the village may, upon ten days prior written
notice to the developer/subdivider, perform or have performed on its behalf any
maintenance or restoration work reasonably necessary to assure that material
deterioration of existing public improvements will not occur. In the event that
it is determined by the Village Administrator or their authorized
representative that failure of the developer/subdivider to properly maintain or
restore existing public improvements will result in imminent hazard to life or
property within the subdivision and/or development or the areas adjacent
thereto, the village may, without prior notice to the subdivider, perform or
have performed on its behalf any maintenance or restoration work reasonably
necessary to prevent such hazards. Within ten days thereafter, the developer/
subdivider shall be notified in writing by the village of the performance of
such work by the village, and the cost thereof. In the event that maintenance
or restoration work is performed by or on behalf of the village, the village
may withdraw the security required by this chapter in an amount equivalent to
the cost of that work.
      (5)   Upon completion of the public improvements required under the
provisions of this chapter, the owner or developer/subdivider shall file with
the Village Engineer a certificate, certified by a registered professional
engineer licensed to practice engineering in this state, to the effect that all
such public improvements have been completed substantially in accordance with
the final plans and specifications approved by the Village Engineer. In
addition, the owner or developer/subdivider shall furnish to the Village
Engineer four complete sets of as-built engineering plans, one of which shall
be upon a mylar reproducible base material or equal. Upon receipt of the plans,
the Village Engineer shall forward one complete set to the Village Department
of Public Works, one complete set to the Village Planner and one complete set
and the mylar’s to the Village Clerk, and shall retain one complete set for
their own files.
      (6)   If the public improvements as required have been completed within
two years from the approval of the final plat of subdivision or approval of the
development, as the case may be, and the owner/developer/subdivider has filed
the certificate and as-built engineering plans required herein, the Village
Engineer shall inspect the public improvements. If they determine that the
public improvements are in conformance with the as-built engineering plans,
other approved plans and all codes and ordinances of the village, the Village
Engineer shall forward to the Village Administrator their recommendation that
the public improvements be approved and accepted by the Village Board as
satisfactory, together with a statement of any extraordinary costs incurred by
the village in connection with the construction of the public improvements
other than the review of the plans, specifications and normal customary
inspections of the work. Within 30 days following receipt of such
recommendation, the Village Board may consider the approval and acceptance of
the public improvements, and may authorize the Village Administrator to release
or refund to the depositor thereof, security for said public improvements as
may be accepted. The Village Board may authorize deductions therefrom of any
extraordinary costs incurred by the village; and further provided that the
Village Board shall condition its acceptance of the public improvements upon
the owner’s or subdivider’s providing the maintenance bond/security required
herein.
      (7)   If the owner or developer/subdivider fails to complete all required
public improvements, or fails to complete these improvements in conformance
with approved plans and specifications based on the criteria listed in division
(C)(1) above, the Village Engineer may withdraw all funds provided as security
pursuant to §
156.25 and may utilize those funds to cause the performance of any work
necessary to complete the public improvements or to bring them into conformance
with approved plans and specifications, codes or ordinances of the village. The
owner or developer/subdivider shall be obligated to reimburse the village for
any costs incurred in excess of those funds in order to complete the required
public improvements.
   (D)   Acceptance of streets and improvements. Final approval of a plat by
the Village Board shall not constitute an acceptance of any dedicated streets
and improvements for maintenance purposes, irrespective of any act or acts by
an officer, agent or employee of the village with respect to those streets or
improvements. Final acceptance of all streets and improvements for maintenance
shall be made only by the adoption of a resolution by the Village Board of
Trustees after there has been filed with the Village Clerk a certificate or
letter by the Village Engineer certifying that all improvements required to be
constructed or installed in connection with the approval of the final plat of
subdivision or development plan have been fully completed and the construction
or installation thereof has been approved by the Village Engineer.
      (1)   Final approval of a plat by the Village Board shall not constitute
formal acceptance by the village of any streets or other public improvements
dedicated therein, irrespective of any act or acts by an officer, agent or
employee of the village with respect to those streets or improvements, and
without regard to any contrary language contained within the final plat so
approved. Formal acceptance of all streets or other improvements dedicated in
any plat approved by the Village Board, and the commencement of the one year
maintenance or guarantee period specified in division (E) below, shall be made
only by the adoption of a resolution by the Village Board of Trustees after
there has been filed with the Village Clerk a certificate or letter by the
Village Engineer certifying that all improvements required to be constructed or
installed in connection with the approved final plat of subdivision or
development plan have been fully completed and the construction or installation
thereof has been approved by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   The owner or developer shall only request acceptance of streets and
public improvements during typical construction months to ensure inspections of
public improvements can be performed during such typical construction months
and within the guarantee or maintenance period specified in division (E) below,
without interference from inclement weather. As used herein, “typical
construction months” shall be from May 1 through December 1. The acceptance of
public improvements, as contemplated by division (D)(1) above, shall be
prohibited prior to May 1 and after December 1 of each calendar year. Moreover,
and notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any letter of credit
posted pursuant to the provisions of division (E) to secure the performance of
the obligations specified by that division shall, by its express terms (which
terms shall specifically include reference to this division (D)(2)), have a
term not less than one year from the date on which such letter was issued,
which term shall (without the need for other or further action by the village)
automatically be extended to the next successive December 1 in the event that
the expiration of the above-stated one-year term occurs at any time which is
not during typical construction months as defined herein.
   (E)   Guarantees of public improvements, development security.
      (1)   The owner or developer/subdivider shall guarantee the public
improvements for a period of one year from the date the Village Board accepts
those improvements. During this one-year period, the owner or developer/
subdivider shall be obligated, upon written notice from the village as provided
herein, to repair or reconstruct any public improvement or portion thereof
which may deteriorate, fail due to poor professional skill or proficiency or
otherwise cease to meet the standards established by the engineer’s certificate
or as-built plans; provided that ordinary maintenance shall not be obligation
of the owner or developer/subdivider.
      (2)   The village shall provide written notice to the owner or developer/
subdivider of deterioration of public improvements, specifying a time period in
which the deterioration is to be remedied; and the owner or developer/
subdivider shall perform the necessary repair or reconstruction at his own
expense within the time specified.
      (3)   In the event that it is determined by the Village Administrator or
their authorized representative that failure of the owner or developer/
subdivider to restore existing public improvements will result in imminent
hazard to life or property within the development or subdivision or in areas
adjacent thereto, the village may, without prior notice to the owner or
subdivider, perform or have performed on its behalf any restoration work
reasonably necessary to prevent that hazard. Within ten days thereafter, the
owner or developer/subdivider shall be notified in writing by the village of
the performance of that work, and of the cost thereof.
      (4)   To secure the obligations imposed by this section, the owner or
developer/subdivider shall provide to the village development security, issued
by a surety authorized to do business in the state, in an amount equal to 125%
of the Village Engineer’s written estimate of the total cost of the public
improvements, as provided in §
156.25; to expire no earlier than one year after the Village Board’s acceptance
of the public improvements.
      (5)   In the event that, during the one year guarantee period, the owner
or developer/subdivider shall fail to repair, reconstruct or otherwise remedy
conditions of deterioration of public improvements in the development or
subdivision within the time specified in the village’s written notice of those
conditions, or shall fail to reimburse the village of the cost of emergency
restoration performed by or on behalf of the village pursuant to division (C)
above within 30 days of receiving notice of such cost, the village may file a
claim against the security required by division (D) above of performance of the
obligation by the surety.
   (F)   Restriction on issuance of building permits.
      (1)   No building permits shall be issued to erect a structure on any
property within the village limits until that property has been subdivided in
compliance with this chapter. No building permits shall be issued to erect a
structure on any subdivided property within the village, which property is
being resubdivided, until the plat of resubdivision has been duly approved and
recorded.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued to any developer or development
that is in default of its obligations for public improvements or where the
village is currently pursuing claims against the development security.
      (3)   In the event that any person or entity shall become delinquent by a
period of time in excess of 30 days (with the existence of any state of
delinquency to be determined by reference to the requirements of this code, any
relevant agreement entered into by and between the village and the person or
entity in question or the standard practices, policies or requirements of any
department of the village, as the case may be) in the payment of any fees or
monies owed to the village for any reason whatsoever, or in the performance of
any obligation owed to the village pursuant to any agreement between the person
or entity in question or pursuant to the applicable ordinances of the village,
the village and the proper personnel of its various departments shall, with
respect to such delinquent person or entity, be authorized to withhold or
suspend the issuance of any permit or approval, the performance of any service,
the processing of any application, the conduct of any review or process or the
performance of any other action whatsoever and without limitation that such
delinquent person or entity may from time to time or at any time request from
the village, whether or not the delinquency in question arises from or relates
to the permit, approval, review, process, service or action at issue.
   (G)   Appearance criteria. No approval shall be given of the development of
any building, structure or improvement on any parcel subject to the provisions
of this chapter until it has been determined that the proposed development will
conform to the following criteria.
      (1)   Relationship of building to site.
         (a)   The site shall be planned to accomplish desirable transition
from the streetscape, and to provide for adequate planting, pedestrian movement
and parking areas.
         (b)   Site planning in which setback and yard areas, which are in
excess of zoning restrictions, are encouraged to provide a compatible
relationship between buildings.
         (c)   Parking areas shall be treated with decorative elements,
building wall extensions, plantings, berms or other innovative means so as to
largely screen parking areas from view from public ways.
         (d)   The height and scale of each building shall be compatible with
its site and with adjoining buildings.
         (e)   Newly installed utility services, and service revisions
necessitated by exterior alterations, shall be underground.
         (f)   The architectural character of the building shall be in keeping
with the topographical dictates of the site.
         (g)   In relating buildings to site, the provisions of the village
zoning code in regard to bulk regulations, standards and off-street parking
shall be part of these criteria.
      (2)   Building design.
         (a)   Architectural style is not restricted; evaluation of appearance
of a project shall be based on quality of its design and relationship to
surroundings.
         (b)   Buildings shall be well proportioned and be in harmonious
conformance with permanent neighboring development.
         (c)   1.   Materials shall be appropriate for exterior use and shall
be selected for harmony of the building with adjoining buildings.
            2.   Materials shall be selected for suitability to the type of
buildings and the design in which they are used. Buildings shall have the same
materials, or those which are architecturally harmonious, used for all building
walls and other exterior building components wholly or partly visible from
public ways.
            3.   Inappropriate materials and methods, and those which will
produce inconsistency with the structure of the building, shall be avoided.
            4.   Materials shall be of durable quality.
            5.   In any design in which the structural frame is exposed to
view, the structural materials shall meet the other criteria for materials.
         (d)   Building components, such as windows, doors, eaves and parapets,
shall have good proportions and relationship to one another.
         (e)   Colors shall be harmonious, with bright or brilliant colors used
only for accents.
         (f)   Mechanical equipment or other utility hardware on roof, ground
or buildings shall be screened from public view with materials harmonious with
the building, or shall be located so as not to be visible from any public ways.
         (g)   Exterior lighting shall be part of the architectural concept.
Fixtures, standards, mailboxes and all exposed accessories shall be harmonious
with building design.
         (h)   Refuse and waste removal areas, service yards, storage yards and
exterior work areas shall be screened from view from public ways, using
materials compatible with the overall building design.
         (i)   Monotony of design in single or multiple building projects shall
be avoided. Variation of detail form and setting shall be used to provide
visual interest. In multiple building projects, variable setting or individual
buildings may be used to prevent a monotonous appearance.
         (j)   Inappropriate, incompatible, bizarre and exotic designs shall be
avoided.
         (k)   The provisions of the zoning code in regard to bulk regulations
and standards, and those portions of all codes which directly affect
appearance, shall be part of the criteria of this section.
   (H)   Enforcement. No plat of any subdivision nor any development plan shall
be entitled to be recorded in the County Recorder’s Office or have any validity
until it has been approved in a manner prescribed by this chapter.
   (I)   Recording of documents. All plats of subdivision and development plans
after the same has been submitted and approved as provided in this chapter and
recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds shall be filed and kept
by the Village Clerk among the permanent records of the village.
   (J)   Variances.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend variances from the
literal application of the design standards specified in this chapter under any
of the following circumstances:
         (a)   Where conformance with these standards is made impossible by
topography or surrounding development;
         (b)   Where an existing plat is to be replatted in a manner which more
nearly complies with the requirements than the existing plat; and
         (c)   Where the proposed subdivision does not follow the conventional
system of development of lots, blocks or streets.
      (2)   In recommending any variance, the Commission shall specify
conditions necessary to assure that the proposed development or subdivision:
         (a)   Will not be detrimental to the neighborhood and to the community
as a whole;
         (b)   Complies with the comprehensive plan of the village;
         (c)   Complies with the intent of this chapter; and
         (d)   Does not violate any other ordinance or regulation of the
village.
      (3)   Such recommendations shall be forwarded to the Village Board, in
writing, substantiating the recommended variances. The Village Board may
approve variations from these requirements when, in its opinion, the variations
will not adversely affect the comprehensive plan or the spirit of this chapter.
All variations on which the Commission may act shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and acted upon in the following manner, provided
by law: the Commission shall publish notice of public hearing on the
application for variation, stating the time and place and the purpose of the
hearing; notice shall be published at least 15 days, but not more than 30 days
in a paper of general circulation within the village; and notice of public
hearing may be mailed to the petitioner and the adjacent property owners of
record or as may be deemed necessary by the Commission to be affected by said
request.
   (K)   Proof of compliance. In addition to such other applications and
submittals as may be required by the provisions of this division (K), all
applicants for any subdivision, development plan or other approval within the
scope of this section with respect to property located in any nonresidential
zoning district shall provide to the Village Department of Community
Development proof of compliance with the provisions of §
52.18(I) pertaining to the completion of and filing with the Village Department
of Public Works of sanitary sewage discharge questionnaires.
   (L)   Preapproval grading process.
      (1)   Except as provided in this division (L), no development, as defined
in §
156.04, shall occur until such time as final engineering plans for such
development have been approved by the corporate authorities of the village.
      (2)   Developers seeking to engage in grading activities prior to the
approval of final engineering plans by the corporate authorities of the village
shall only do pursuant to the terms of a development agreement approved by the
corporate authorities of the village. A developer seeking to enter into such an
agreement shall initiate the process by submitting a development application to
the village indicating that it seeks a preapproval grading development
agreement under this division (L), and shall include therewith a copy of
engineering plans depicting the contemplated grading activities prepared in
compliance with village ordinances. Preapproval grading development agreements
shall only be approved for the development of properties within the P-B Planned
Business Zoning District of the village. As used in this division (L), GRADING
ACTIVITIES or GRADING shall mean and include those activities identified in
items (1)(d) and (1)(e) of the definition of development, as defined in §
156.04. At a minimum, the terms of such a development agreement shall include
at least the following terms and conditions.
         (a)   All grading work performed pursuant to the development agreement
and this division (L) shall be undertaken at the sole and absolute risk of the
developer. Neither the existence of this division (L) nor the approval of a
development agreement pursuant thereto shall grant or be construed as approval
or acceptance of any work planned or performed by a developer in connection
therewith.
         (b)   In the event that the underlying property contains wetlands, the
developer shall not develop, disturb, encroach upon or touch any such wetlands
until such time as the corporate authorities of the village have approved
variances or other relief to permit the same under the provisions of this code.
Any violation of the terms of the preceding sentence shall entitle the village
to immediately issue an order to the developer to cease all grading activities
on the relevant property, and shall subject the developer to enforcement
actions, including, but not limited to, the imposition of fines, or the
commencement of enforcement proceedings in court.
         (c)   In the event that the developer’s grading activities contemplate
off-site grading, or grading outside the corporate limits of the village, the
developer shall not proceed with any such grading activities until such time as
it has presented the village with written agreements, permits or other
approvals satisfactory to the village evidencing the consent of all offsite
landowners and all authorities having jurisdiction outside of the corporate
limits of the village to the conduct of such grading activities.
         (d)   In the event that the village is made a party defendant in any
litigation, arbitration or other proceeding relating to or in any way arising
out of the provisions of this division (L), the provisions of any development
agreement between the developer and the village, or any actions planned or
undertaken by developer based upon or relating to this division (L) or any such
development agreement, the developer shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless
the village, its president, trustees, officers and employees, and the
consultants and agents of the village (collectively, the “village
indemnitees”), individually and collectively, from any suits and from any
claims, demands, setoffs or other actions, including, but not limited to,
judgments and any costs of compliance resulting or arising therefrom. The
obligation of the developer hereunder shall include and extend to payment of
reasonable attorney’s fees for the representation of the village and all
village indemnitees in such litigation and shall include all related expenses,
expert witness fees, court costs and fees; it being understood that the village
shall have the right to employ all such attorneys to represent the village and
the village indemnitees in such litigation. The preceding provisions, when
embodied in any development agreement between the village and the developer
pursuant to this division (L), shall survive any termination of such
development agreement and any amendment or repeal of this division (L).
         (e)   The developer shall waive, in form and substance satisfactory to
the village, any and all claims that it has or may ever have arising out of or
founded in whole or in part upon any expenditures, reliance or changes in its
position occasioned by or resulting from its conduct of grading activities
pursuant to this division (L) and any development agreement with the village
entered into pursuant to this division (L), including, but expressly not
limited to, any such claims which may arise in the event that the subsequent
village approval of final engineering plans for the development or its
enforcement of the provisions of this code require modification, removal,
repair or other alteration of work already performed by the developer.
         (f)   The developer shall post financial security with the village in
the amount of 125% of its estimated cost of all grading activities proposed to
be undertaken by the developer. The amount of and form of the financial
security shall be reviewed and approved by the corporate authorities of the
village, by resolution, or as a term of a development agreement between the
developer and the village.
         (g)   The developer, at all times during which it conducts grading
under this division (L) and any development agreement between the village and
the developer pertaining thereto, and until such time as the corporate
authorities of the village shall approve final engineering plans for the
relevant property, shall obtain and maintain, in full force and effect, a
policy of commercial general liability insurance insuring the developer and the
village with respect to occurrences arising out of or related to the
developer’s conduct of such grading activities, with such coverage having
combined single limits of double the amount of the estimated cost of the
grading work, or $1,000,000, whichever is greater, for personal injury, death
and property damage per occurrence, and in the aggregate, which coverage shall
specifically refer to this division (L) and to the development agreement
between the village and the developer. All such insurance coverage shall also
provide that it is primary and noncontributory to any insurance coverage of the
village, and shall waive all rights of recovery against the village. Copies of
all policies and certificates of insurance shall be provided to the village
prior to the commencement of any such grading activities, together with a
written endorsement to such coverage expressly naming the village as an
additional named insured thereunder. All such coverage shall provide that it
cannot be canceled except upon 30 days’ prior written notice to the village.
         (h)   Developer shall perform all grading work pursuant to this
division (L) and any development agreement with the village in compliance with
all applicable ordinances of the village, and all applicable regulations or
requirements of other governmental agencies having jurisdiction over the work.
         (i)   Developer shall, not later than contemporaneously with the
approval of a development agreement with the village pursuant to this division
(L), pay to the village a preapproval grading administrative fee calculated in
accordance with the provisions of division (L)(3) below.
      (3)   The fee for the negotiation, review and approval of a development
agreement pertaining to preapproval grading as contemplated by this division
(L) shall be $5,000 per acre. Fractional acreages shall be prorated
accordingly. The fee imposed by this division (L) shall be in addition to any
and all fees otherwise applicable under this code.
(Prior Code, § 158.005) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 92-01, passed 9-5-
2001; Ord. 0009-02, passed 1-16-2002; Ord. 06-0383, passed 3-15-2006; Ord. 12-
1014, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 16-1316, passed 9-7-2016)
**** PROCEDURES ****
§ 156.20 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before subdividing any tract or parcel of land in the corporate limits
of the village and the unincorporated areas within one and one-half miles
beyond the village limits, excluding areas declared to be the responsibility of
another municipality as part of any approved boundary line agreement, an owner
or subdivider shall submit a preliminary plan and a final plat to be acted upon
by the village authorities in accordance with the following requirements.
   (B)   Prior to the preparation of a preliminary plan, it is recommended
that:
      (1)   The owner or subdivider consult with the Village Administrator to
secure information relative to requirements of the comprehensive plan, official
map, zoning code and any other applicable village ordinance; and
      (2)   Subsequently submit to the village, a sketch plan of the proposed
subdivision prepared on a topographic map of the area, showing the local street
system, arrangement of lots and location of public use areas to be presented to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for sketch/concept approval.
(Prior Code, § 158.010) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.21 LOT SPLITS/LOT CONSOLIDATIONS.
   (A)   General requirements. For the purpose of this chapter, a lot split
and/or lot consolidation shall be defined as follows.
      (1)   Lot split. The division of a single lot tract or parcel of land
into three or less lots for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or of building development, providing the proposed lots,
tracts or parcels of land thereby created have frontage on an improved public
street or streets, and providing further that there is not created by the lot
split any new street or streets, nor the need for required improvements, or
easement of access.
      (2)   Lot consolidation. The joining of three or less lots, tracts or
parcels of land into one contiguous lot, tract or parcel for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, transfer of ownership or of building development,
providing the proposed newly consolidated lots, tracts or parcels of land
thereby created have frontage on an improved public street or streets, and
providing further that there is not created by the lot consolidation any new
street or streets, nor the need for required improvements or easements.
   (B)   Additional delineation.
      (1)   Accurate angular and lineal dimensions of all lines, angles and
curvatures, with functions used to describe all boundaries including boundary
line surveys of tracts, streets, easements, areas to be reserved for public use
and other important features; the error of closure of boundary line surveys
shall not exceed one in 5,000. Angular error shall not exceed plus/minus 20
seconds. Lot lines shall show dimensions in feet and hundredths, and when an
angle occurs in any lot line between lot corners, the measurement of angle
shall be shown in degrees, minutes and seconds. The final plat shall show
accurately the location of all permanent markers actually installed.
      (2)   An identification system for lots using consecutive numbers or
consecutive numbers within each block.
      (3)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
and official monuments (not less than three monuments), which shall be
accurately described in the plat by location, size and elevation.
      (4)   Municipal, township, county and section lines that are accurately
referenced to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles that are on
the same boundary or within 100 feet of the subdivision.
      (5)   Accurate location of all monuments which shall be placed at the
corners of the subdivision and which shall be concrete six inches by six inches
by 30 inches with metal pipe or rod cast in center, and of additional monuments
at block corners and which shall be placed at all angle points, and at
intermediate points as required by the Village Engineer, and shall be of iron
pipe, and installed in a manner that they may be located by a registered land
surveyor.
      (6)   Accurate outlines of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for
public use or for the exclusive use of property owners within the subdivision.
   (C)   Sketch planning meeting.
      (1)   Prior to the preparation of a plat of lot split or plat of lot
consolidation, it is recommended that the owner or developer/subdivider consult
with the Village Administrator, submitting therewith a sketch of the proposed
lot split or lot consolidation, to secure information relative to requirements
of the comprehensive plan, official map, zoning code and any other applicable
village regulations.
      (2)   The owner or developer/subdivider shall file an application for
approval of the lot split or lot consolidation with the Village Clerk. The
application shall be accompanied by the required filing fee, along with 26
copies of the proposed lot split or lot consolidation.
      (3)   The owner or subdivider shall be notified as to the time and place
of the Commission meeting at which they will be afforded an opportunity to be
heard.
      (4)   Within 45 days of the date on which the plat was filed, the
Commission shall render a decision regarding the plat. One copy of the plat, as
approved, along with any comments the Commission may have, shall be forwarded
to the Village Board. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall approve the plat
if it is determined to be in substantial conformance with all other
requirements of this chapter, subject to such variations as the Commission may
recommend. If the Planning and Zoning Commission shall approve the plat, the
Chair of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall affix their signature to the
certificate provided for the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission on
the final plat.
      (5)   Upon receipt of the Commission’s report on the plat, the Village
Board shall, within 30 days, by resolution, either approve the plat, upon
adoption of the resolution approving the plat, or disapprove the plat. The
Village Clerk shall certify approval and affix the corporate seal of the
village on the plat.
      (6)   Upon approval by the Village Board, the Village Clerk shall secure
one transparency and two copies of the approved plat, and two copies of the
approved supporting documents. The cost of prints and copies of documents shall
be paid by the owner or subdivider. One contact print and all specifications,
drawings and estimates shall be delivered to the Village Engineer, and one
transparency print, one contact print and all other supporting documents shall
be retained by the Village Clerk.
      (7)   (a)   The plat, in exact form as approved, shall be filed for
recording in the County Recorder of Deeds Office within 30 days of the date of
approval by the Village Board. Approval of the plat by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and Village Board shall be null and void if the plat is not recorded
in the Office of the Recorder within this time period.
         (b)   The subdivider shall pay all recording fees and obtain a receipt
from the County Recorder’s Office indicating the following information:
            1.   The name of the subdivision plat;
            2.   The date of filing;
            3.   The total filing cost;
            4.   The name of the person doing the recording; and
            5.   The name of the county official accepting the plat for
recording.
      (8)   Should the Planning and Zoning Commission fail to recommend
approval of the plat, the owner or subdivider may submit his final plat to the
Village Board for its consideration within 60 days of the Commission’s failure
to recommend the final plat of subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 158.011) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.22 PRELIMINARY PLAT OF SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   General requirements. The owner or subdivider shall file an
application for approval of the preliminary plat with the Village Clerk. The
application shall be accompanied by the required application fee, along with 30
copies of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Sketch planning meeting. Prior to the preparation of a plat of
subdivision, it is recommended that the owner or developer/subdivider consult
with the Village Administrator, submitting therewith a sketch of the proposed
subdivision/development, to secure information relative to requirements of the
comprehensive plan, official map, zoning code and any other applicable village
regulations.
   (C)   Notification. The owner or subdivider shall be notified as to the time
and place of the Commission meeting at which they will be afforded an
opportunity of being heard.
   (D)   Approval or disapproval. The Commission shall approve or disapprove
the application for preliminary plat within 45 days after the first regular
meeting from the date of filing of the application, or the filing by the
applicant of the last item of required supporting documents, whichever date is
later, unless this time is extended by mutual consent. If the preliminary plat
is not satisfactory, the Planning and Zoning Commission may permit the owner or
subdivider to make such changes as may be required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and thereupon approve the same. The Planning and Zoning Commission
and owner or subdivider shall give due consideration to the alignment of lot
lines along the boundaries of watercourses, and lot lines shall be so aligned
where practical and feasible. When such alignment is not practical and
feasible, easements along watercourses shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements of other sections of this chapter.
   (E)   Procedure. When the preliminary plat has been acted upon by the
Commission, it shall be referred to the Village Board. If the Commission
approved the plat, it shall so indicate on the plat; if it disapproves the
plat, it shall furnish the Village Board with documentation specifying with
particularity the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to this
chapter and the official map, and with the intent of the comprehensive plan.
The Village Board shall accept or reject the plat within 30 days after the
first regular meeting following the action of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (F)   Notice of approval. Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the
Village Board, the following notice of approval shall be stamped upon four
prints thereof, and required signatures affixed:
 
NOTICE OF APPROVAL
OF PRELIMINARY PLAT
 
Notice is hereby given that the preliminary plat of subdivision shown hereon has received approval by the
Planning & Zoning Commission and the Village Board, and upon compliance by the developer with requirements or
qualifications governing the approval of preliminary plats and with other revisions and stipulations that may be
required, the Village Board will receive the final plat for consideration when submitted by the owner or
subdivider in such form and within such time as required by this code.
 
   The Planning &      The Village
   Zoning Commission   Board of the
   of the Village      Village of
   of Romeoville      Romeoville, Will
   Will County,      County, Illinois.
   Illinois.
 
   Date:                        Date:                 
 
   By:                           By:                    
   Chairman         Village
               President
 
   Attest:                       Attest:                        
   Secretary            Village Clerk
 
   (G)   Specifications. The preliminary plat and required accompanying maps
shall be drawn on a transparent drawing material not to exceed 36 inches wide
by 48 inches long, not be less than 18 inches wide by 24 inches long; shall be
to a scale of 100 feet to one inch, in a manner that clear and legible prints
can be made; and shall be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. If
necessary, the proposed plat may be detailed on more than one sheet; provided,
however, that the submittal is accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire
subdivision.
   (H)   Identification and description. The preliminary plat shall show the
following:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision, not duplicating the name of
any plat heretofore approved by the village;
      (2)   The location by township, section and range, along with an accurate
legal description of the property to be subdivided;
      (3)   Identification clearly stating “preliminary plat;”
      (4)   An accompanying boundary line survey map with accurate distances
and angles prepared and certified by a registered land surveyor, and an
accompanying topographic map indicating the source of the survey;
      (5)   Disclosure of the legal relationship, if any, between the owner and
developer, including any of the following:
         (a)   Agent of owner;
         (b)   Purchaser under contract for sale with owner, contingent or
otherwise;
         (c)   Unrecorded owner; and
         (d)   Contract purchaser.
      (6)   Name, address, phone number of owner or owners of record of all
property within the preliminary plat;
      (7)   Name, address and phone number of the registered professional
engineer preparing any part of the preliminary plat or supporting material;
      (8)   Name, address and phone number of attorney(s) representing the
owner(s) and developer(s);
      (9)   Graphic engineering scale shall not exceed 100 feet to one inch;
      (10)   The north point, designated as true north;
      (11)   The date of preparation;
      (12)   In the case of a trust, the name, address and phone number of all
members and beneficiaries of the trust, trust officer, institution and account
number of the trust; and
      (13)   An accompanying boundary line survey map with accurate distances
and angles indicating all lands both adjacent to and within 100 feet of the
proposed subdivision, such property being under contract, owned or option to
purchase, or other proprietary interest by the owner’s or developer’s/
subdivider’s of the property under consideration.
   (I)   Existing conditions. The preliminary plat shall also show the
following:
      (1)   The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision in accordance with
division (H)(4) above;
      (2)   The total acreage therein;
      (3)   The existing zoning districts in the proposed subdivision and
adjacent thereto;
      (4)   The location, widths and names of all existing or previously
platted streets and other rights-of-way, showing the type of improvements (if
any), railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and other public open spaces,
in tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the tract;
      (5)   The location and size of existing sewer pipes, water mains,
culverts and other underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of
100 feet beyond the tract. The locations of catch basins, manholes, valves and
hydrants, and indicating such data as surface and invert elevations within the
tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the tract;
      (6)   The location map, drawn at the scale of not less than one inch
equals 1,000 feet, showing boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or
subdivided plat with an area bounded by the nearest thoroughfare or other
boundaries, but not less than one-half mile beyond the subdivision boundaries
of subdivisions located beyond the village limits, identifying the type of use
of surrounding land and showing the alignments of existing streets;
      (7)   Topographic data, which shall include existing contours at vertical
intervals of not more than two feet, and the location of watercourses,
floodplains, marshes, wooded areas, isolated areas and other significant
features. Topographic data shall refer to the U.S.G.S. datum. Soil boring data
may be required at location and depth as determined by the Village Engineer;
      (8)   The locations of, or reference to, existing monuments or survey
markers used in the preparation of the survey; and
      (9)   All wooded areas and trees having four inch caliper or greater.
   (J)   Subdivision design and features. The preliminary plat shall also show
the following:
      (1)   The preliminary plat shall be in substantial accord with the
comprehensive plan;
      (2)   The layout of the streets, showing right-of-way widths and street
names, not duplicating the name of any street heretofore used within and
adjacent to the village and its environs (i.e., county 9-1-1 service area and
adopted mutual aid agreements), unless the street is an extension of or in line
with already named street, in which event that name shall be used; and showing
proposed through streets extended to boundaries of the subdivision;
      (3)   The location and width of pedestrian ways, utility easements and
drainage easements;
      (4)   The layout, lot numbers and dimensions of the lot, containing the
minimum width and depth and the maximum width and depth;
      (5)   The minimum front, side and rear building setback lines, indicating
dimensions; and
      (6)   The design and location of proposed street lights and easements
therefor.
   (K)   Drainage. Concurrent with the filing of the preliminary plat, the
owner or subdivider shall file with the Village Planner three copies of a
preliminary drainage plan for the proposed subdivision, which shall indicate
the following:
      (1)   The design intent of sanitary sewers, storm drains and open
drainage ways, if any, and proposed method of sewage treatment and waste
disposal;
      (2)   The design intent and proposed location and sizes of water mains,
valves and hydrants;
      (3)   The design intent of proposed street alignments, pavement widths,
approximate street elevations and gradients;
      (4)   The extent and area of each watershed tributary to the drainage
channel within the proposed subdivision;
      (5)   Existing streams and flood water runoff channels to be maintained,
enlarged, altered or eliminated and new channels to be constructed, their
locations, cross-section and profiles; and
      (6)   Existing detention ponds and basins to be maintained, enlarged,
altered or eliminated, and new ponds or basins to be built along with dams and
their design.
   (L)   Validity. The approval by the Village Board of Trustees for the
preliminary plat of subdivision shall be valid for a period of 12 months from
said date. The Village Board of Trustees, upon request by the owner/ developer/
subdivider, may extend the approval for a period not to exceed six additional
months.
(Prior Code, § 158.012) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.23 FINAL PLAT OF SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   General requirements. The owner or subdivider shall file an
application for approval of the final plat with the Village Clerk. The
application shall be accompanied by the required application fee, along with 25
copies of the final plat of subdivision.
   (B)   Final plat submission. Within six months of the date upon which the
preliminary plat was approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission, or a
period of time not to exceed 12 months as may be granted by the Village Board,
the owner or subdivider shall submit to the Village Clerk the original inked
linen drawing, plus 15 contact prints, of the final plat of the proposed
subdivision. The drawing and prints shall contain all required certificates as
set forth herein this section. All signatures must be affixed using black ink.
The final plat shall retain the overall characteristics of the preliminary
plat.
   (C)   Review. The Village Clerk shall refer seven copies of the contact
prints to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review, and one contact print
to the Village Engineer. The Engineer and other public officials having
jurisdiction shall review the plat and report approval or recommend revision to
the Planning and Zoning Commission within 30 days of the filing date. The
Commission shall not approve the final plat prior to receipt of the report from
the Engineer. The Commission shall notify the owner or subdivider as to the
time and place of the Commission meeting at which the problem will be
discussed.
   (D)   Decision. Within 60 days of the date on which a complete final plat
was submitted, the Commission shall render a decision regarding the final plat.
One copy of the final plat, as approved, along with any comments the Commission
may have, shall be forwarded to the Village Board. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall approve the final plat if it is determined to be in
substantial conformance with the approved preliminary plat, and if it is
determined to be in compliance with all other requirements of the chapter,
subject to such variations as the Commission may recommend in addition to those
granted at the time of preliminary plat, and if it is determined to be in
compliance with all other requirements of this chapter, subject to such
variations as the Commission may recommend in addition to those granted at the
time of preliminary plat approval. However, the Planning and Zoning Commission
may disapprove the final plat if new evidence has been discovered since the
time of approval of the preliminary plat, which evidence is of a type not known
at the time of approval of the preliminary plat and which would not have been
discovered by reasonable diligence at that time, which is of such decisive
nature that the preliminary plat would not have been approved had that evidence
been known.
      (1)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission does not approve the final
plat, it may permit the owner or subdivider to make such changes as may be
required by the Commission and thereupon approve the final plat. Any subsequent
resubmission of the final plat shall renew the 60-day approval period as noted
herein.
      (2)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission approves the final plat, the
Chair of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall affix their signature to the
certificate provided for the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission on
the final plat.
   (E)   Approval or disapproval. Upon receipt of the Commission’s report on
the final plat, the Village Board shall, within 30 days, by resolution, either
approve the final plat, upon adoption of the resolution approving the plat or
disapprove the plat. The Village Clerk shall certify such approval and affix
the corporate seal of the village on the final plat.
   (F)   Copies and prints. Upon approval by the Village Board, the Village
Clerk shall secure one transparency and two copies of the approved final plat,
and two copies of the approved supporting documentation. The cost of prints and
copies of documents shall be paid by the owner or specifications, drawings and
estimates shall be delivered to the Village Engineer, and one transparency
print, one contact print and all other supporting documents shall be retained
by the Village Clerk.
   (G)   Filing and receipt.
      (1)   The final plat, in exact form as approved, shall be filed for
record by the Village Clerk in the County Recorder of Deeds Office within 30
days of the date of approval by the Village Board. Approval of the final plat
by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Village Board shall be null and void
if the plat is not acceptable for recording in the Office of the Recorder. The
subdivider shall pay all recording fees.
      (2)   A receipt shall be obtained from the County Recorder indicating:
         (a)   The name of the subdivision plat;
         (b)   The date of filing;
         (c)   The total filing cost;
         (d)   The name of the person doing the recording; and
         (e)   The name of the county officials accepting the plat for
recording.
   (H)   Extending approval. Where less than the entire land area shown in the
preliminary plat is to be filed for record, each unit recorded shall
automatically extend the approval of the unrecorded balance of the final plat
for 18 months. The Village Board, upon request by the owner or subdivider, may
further extend approval not to exceed 12 additional months. Should the Planning
and Zoning Commission fail to recommend approval of the final plat, the owner
or subdivider may submit their final plat to the Village Board for their
consideration within 60 days of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s denial of
the final plat.
   (I)   Information and requirements. The “final plat” shall show all
information as required on the “preliminary plat of subdivision,” as well as
that information required in this chapter, excepting, however, the requirements
listed in §
156.22(I)(1) through (I)(4) and shall be submitted with the required drawings
of §§
156.41,
156.42,
156.43 and
156.44. The final plat and required accompanying maps shall be drawn on a
reproducible mylar base material not to exceed 36 inches wide by 48 inches
long, not be less than 18 inches wide by 24 inches long; shall be to a scale of
one inch equals 100 feet, in a manner that clear and legible prints can be
made; and shall be in compliance with this chapter. If necessary, the final
plat may be detailed on more than one sheet; provided, however, that the
submittal is accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision.
   (J)   Additional delineation. The final plat of subdivision shall also show
the following:
      (1)   Accurate angular and lineal dimensions of all lines, angles and
curvatures, with functions used to describe all boundaries including boundary
line surveys of tracts, streets, easements, areas to be reserved for public use
and other important features; the error of closure of boundary line surveys
shall not exceed one in 5,000. Angular error shall not exceed plus/minus 20
seconds. Lot
lines shall show dimensions in feet and hundredths, and when an angle occurs in
any lot line between lot corners, the measurement of angle shall be shown in
degrees, minutes and seconds. The final plat shall show accurately the location
of all permanent markers actually installed;
      (2)   An identification system for lots using consecutive numbers, or
consecutive numbers within each block;
      (3)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
and official monuments (not less than three), which shall be accurately
described in the plat by location, size and elevation;
      (4)   Municipal, township, county and section lines accurately referenced
to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles in the same area on the
boundary of within 100 feet of the subdivision;
      (5)   Accurate location of all monuments which shall be placed at the
corners of the subdivision and which shall be concrete six inches by six inches
by 30 inches with metal pipe or rod cast in center, and of additional monuments
at block corners and which shall be placed at all angle points, and at
intermediate points as required by the Village Engineer, and shall be of iron
pipe, and installed in a manner that they may be located by a registered land
surveyor; and
      (6)   Accurate outlines of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for
public use or for the exclusive use of property owners within the subdivision.
   (K)   Certificates to be placed on final plat of subdivision.
      (1)   Owner’s certificates.
 
   (Corporate owner’s certificate shall be accompanied by a corporate form of acknowledgement.)
 
   STATE OF ILLINOIS)
   COUNTY OF WILL)
This is to certify that the undersigned is the owner of the land described in the annexed plat,
and has caused the same to be surveyed and subdivided, as indicated thereon, for the uses and
purposes therein set forth, and does hereby acknowledge and adopt the same under the style and
title thereon indicated. The undersigned hereby dedicates for public use, the lands shown on this
plat for the thoroughfares, streets, and public services; and hereby also reserves for the
Illinois Bell Telephone Company, the Northern Illinois Gas Company, the Commonwealth Edison
Company, American Cable Systems Midwest, and the Village of Romeoville, easement provisions which
are stated on their standard form which is attached hereto.
 
 
                                                
                     TITLE
 
 
                                                 
                     ADDRESS
 
   Dated this            Day of          , 20     
 
 
      (2)   Notary certificate.
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF WILL      )
 
I,                 , a Notary Public in and for said County, in the state aforesaid, do
hereby certify that              , personally known to me to be the same persons whose names
are subscribed to the foregoing instrument as such owners, appeared before met this day in
person and acknowledge that they signed this plat as their own free and voluntary act for
uses and purposes therein set forth.
 
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this               day of        , 20     .
 
                                  
               Notary Public
 
 
      (3)   Surveyor’s certificate.
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF WILL      )
 
This is to certify that I,              , registered Illinois Land Surveyor No.       , have
surveyed and subdivided the following described property:
   (Insert Legal Description)
as shown by the annexed plat which is a correct representation of said survey and subdivision. All
distances are shown in feet and decimals thereof. I further certify that all regulations enacted
by the Village of Romeoville relative to plats and subdivisions have been complied with in the
preparation of this plat.
 
Given under my hand and seal at                Illinois, this        day of      , 20   .
 
                                                 
                        Surveyor
 
 
      (4)   Certificate of Planning and Zoning Commission.
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF WILL      )
 
I,                , Chair of the Village Planning & Zoning Commission, certify that on       
day of          , 20   , this plat of subdivision was duly approved by the Planning & Zoning
Commission.
 
                                             
                  Chair, Planning
                  & Zoning
                  Commission
 
 
      (5)   County Clerk certificate.
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS)   
COUNTY OF WILL      )
 
I,              , County Clerk of Will County, Illinois, do hereby certify that there are no
delinquent general taxes, no unpaid forfeited taxes, and no redeemable tax sales against any
of the land included in this plat.
 
Given under my hand and seal at Joliet, Will County, Illinois, this
        day of          , 20    .
 
 
                                           
                     County Clerk
 
 
      (6)   Certificate as to special assessments.
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF WILL      )
 
I,             , Village Treasurer of the Village of Romeoville, do hereby certify that
there are no delinquent or unpaid current or forfeited special assessments or any deferred
installment thereof that have been apportioned against the tract of land included in the
plat.
 
Dated at Romeoville, Will County, Illinois, this            day of       , 20    .
 
                                            
                  Village Treasurer
 
      (7)   Plat certificate. Requirement for plats outside the corporate
limits, yet within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits:
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF WILL      )
 
Approved by the Mayor and the Village Board of the Village of Romeoville, Will County,
Illinois, in accordance with Subdivision Regulations, at a meeting held this
          day of          , 20    .
 
               By:                            
                  Village President
 
      (8)   Village Clerk’s Certificate.
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF WILL      )
 
I,              , Village Clerk of the Village of Romeoville, Will County, Illinois, hereby
certify that this plat was presented to and by Resolution duly approved by the Village
President and Board of Trustees of said Village at its meeting held on the              day
of
          , 20     , and that the required bond or other guarantee has been posted for the
completion of the improvements required by the regulations of said Village.
 
                  By:                           
                     Village Clerk
 
      (9)   Note. Except as otherwise required by statute, certification on
final plats of subdivisions located in the unincorporated areas within one and
one-half miles beyond the village limits shall be those required by the county
subdivision regulation ordinance, except that when this chapter is more
restrictive, the applicable certifications contained herein shall also be
required.
(Prior Code, § 158.013) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.24 DEVELOPMENT/ENGINEERING PLAN.
   (A)   General requirements. Prior to any development of any parcel of land
within the corporate limits of the village existing at the time the development
is proposed, an owner or developer shall submit a full set of development/
engineering plans to be approved by the corporate authorities of the village,
pursuant to the applicable ordinances of the village, except where an
applicable provision of this code, or any relevant annexation agreement or
development agreement provides otherwise.
   (B)   General information.
      (1)   The development/engineering plans and required maps shall be drawn
on transparent drawing material not to exceed 36 inches wide and 48 inches
long, nor be less than 18 inches wide by 24 inches long, in a manner that clear
and legible prints can be made, and shall be in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter. If necessary, the plan may be detailed on more than one sheet;
provided, however, that the submittal is accompanied by an index sheet showing
the entire development.
      (2)   The following information, where applicable, shall be shown on the
plans:
         (a)   Date of preparation, north point and scale of drawing which
shall be not less than one inch equals 100 feet for area under 100 acres;
         (b)   Legal description of the parcel;
         (d)   The name and address of the owner of record, the applicant, the
surveyor, licensed professional engineer or planner who prepared the plat; and
         (d)   A vicinity map showing the general location of the parcel within
the village and its environs.
   (C)   Existing conditions. The following conditions, if found to exist on
the parcel, shall be shown on the plan:
      (1)   The location, width and names of all streets within or adjacent to
the parcel, together with easements, public utility and railroad rights-of-way,
and other important features, such as municipal boundary lines, section lines,
corners and monuments;
      (2)   Contour lines of the parcel and all adjacent land within 100 feet
of the boundaries of the parcels showing intervals no greater than:
         (a)   Two-foot contour intervals for ground slopes less than 10%; and
         (b)   Five-foot contour intervals for ground slopes exceeding 10%.
      (3)   The location and direction of all water courses and the location of
all area subject to flooding, including:
         (a)   The flow-lines of streams and channels showing their normal
shorelines and floodway limits as indicated on U.S.G.S. maps or by the Army
Corps of Engineers, or by the national flood insurance program maps;
         (b)   Lakes, ponds, swamps, marshes and any indentions basins showing
their normal shorelines, floodway limits and lines of inflow and outflow, if
any;
         (c)   Seeps, springs, flowings and wells; and
         (d)   One-hundred-year floodplain elevation.
      (4)   Natural features, such as rock outcroppings, wooded areas and
isolated preservable trees;
      (5)   Present uses of the parcel, including the location of all existing
structures, showing those that will be removed and those that will remain on
the parcel after the development is completed;
      (6)   The locations and size of existing sanitary and storm sewers,
water, mains, culverts, drain pipes, catch basins, manholes, hydrants and
electric and gas lines within the parcel and in adjacent streets or rights-of-
way;
      (7)   Zoning classifications of the parcel and of lands adjacent;
      (8)   All trees greater than six inches in diameter or 19 inches in
circumference (as measured two feet above grade) located on the property. The
common names of all trees shall be indicated, as well as the diameter or
circumference size; and
      (9)   The total number of trees on the property that have a minimum four
inch trunk. The total number of trees expected to be removed should be
indicated.
   (D)   Proposed improvements. The following improvements, if proposed or
required, shall be shown on the plan or in supporting documentation:
      (1)   Streets and rights-of-way, showing the location, widths and names
thereof. The plan shall also show the relationship between existing and
proposed streets;
      (2)   Easements, showing width and purpose;
      (3)   Sites to be dedicated for school, park, playground or other public
purpose, together with approximate acreage of each and accurate legal
descriptions;
      (4)   The proposed use of the parcel;
      (5)   Location and intensity of outdoor lighting systems; and
      (6)   All off-street parking, loading and walkways, indicating type of
surfacing, size, angle of stalls, widths of aisles and a specific schedule
showing the number of parking spaces provided.
   (E)   Supporting data.
      (1)   The following data shall be submitted in separate statements and
maps accompanying the development plan:
         (a)   A map extending for a minimum distance of 100 feet on all sides
of the parcel, showing existing uses, streets, rights-of-way and dedicated
easements, and location of existing structures;
         (b)   Existing or proposed annexation agreements which pertain to the
parcel;
         (c)   Estimated costs associated with the development (i.e., water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, grading, seeding, sodding and the like);
         (d)   Evidence of the financial ability of the applicant to complete
the development;
         (e)   Proposed building types;
         (f)   Indicate methods of solid waste disposal;
         (g)   Existing soil conditions;
         (h)   Landscape plan showing location, type and approximate size of
plantings;
         (i)   Proposed architectural elevations for building types;
         (j)   Development data showing number of floors, floor area, height
and location of each building and the floor area ratio for the entire
development. If a multi-family residential building, the number, size and type
of dwelling units;
         (k)   A drainage plan, subject to approval by the Village Engineer,
providing for the adequate disposition of natural and stormwater in accordance
with the design criteria and standards of this chapter, indicating location,
sizes, types and grades of ditches, catch basins and pipes, and connections to
existing drainage system;
         (l)   A soil erosion control plan, subject to approval by the Village
Engineer, providing for the adequate control of erosion and sedimentation,
indicating the proposed temporary and permanent control practices and measures
which will be implemented during all phases of clearing, grading and
construction;
         (m)   Plans and specifications for the required public improvements,
together with the written report from the Village Engineer;
         (n)   A copy of any restrictions or covenants to be created by record
and charter bylaw of any property owners association to be created; and
         (o)   Topographical data, including contour lines at vertical
intervals of one foot with reference to the county vertical datum and
horizontal coordinate system. The datum and referenced monument location shall
be included in all final plats and engineering plans, without exception.
      (2)   The Village Engineer may request additional documentation as needed
to complete the review of the proposed development.
   (F)   Guarantees. Development security, as required under §§
156.05 and
156.25, shall be provided to ensure completion of required public improvements,
to ensure repair of defective improvements and to provide for abatement of
nuisances occurring during construction.
(Prior Code, § 158.014) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 0036-02, passed 5-
15-2002; Ord. 12-1014, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 16–1316, passed 9-7-2016)
§ 156.25 AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Any owner or subdivider filing an application for approval of a final
plat shall submit a statement of agreement that the land improvements as
required of this chapter shall be completed by the owner or subdivider in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Village Engineer and
the Village Board, and all inspection fees referred to in this chapter shall be
paid as required. One set of plans and specifications showing the improvements,
as included, shall be filed with the Village Clerk within two years following
the approval of the final plat by the Village Board.
   (B)   To ensure completion of all required land improvements, development
security in the sum of 125% of the cost of the improvements must be submitted.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   The development security referred to in division (B) above
shall be posted with the village prior to Village Board approval of any final
plat of subdivision or any final development plan. From time to time, the
owner, developer or subdivider, as the case may be, may request a reduction of
the amount of the letter of credit to reflect progress in the completion of the
public improvements secured thereby or progress in the performance of such
other obligations as may be secured thereby.
         (b)   Such a request may be made by filing the following documents
with the Village Manager:
            1.   A request for the reduction certified to the Director of
Community Development by the project engineer stating that the work has been
completed in substantial conformance with the approved plans and specifications
therefor and specifying the amount of the reduction then being sought, in such
form as may be required from time to time by the Director of Community
Development;
            2.   A new or substitute development security for the public
improvements in question or the other obligations secured, in a principal
amount that reflects the requested amount of the reduction;
            3.   The estimate of the Village Engineer stating the estimated
cost to complete the public improvements not yet completed and to perform the
remainder of any other obligations to be secured thereby which have not then
been performed;
            4.   Evidence satisfactory to the Village Attorney that the cost of
the public improvements then constructed and the cost of any other obligations
then performed and secured by said development security has actually been paid
or that such payment has been adequately secured; and
            5.   “As-built” plans for the public improvements then completed in
such formats as may be required by the Director of Community Development.
      (2)   The foregoing documentation shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer, who may recommend approval or denial of the requested reduction in
the amount of the development security to the Village Board, but no reduction
in any amount of any development security shall be requested by any owner,
developer or subdivider recommended for approval by the Village Engineer or
ultimately approved by the Village Board which would reduce the then-remaining
principal balance of said development security to an amount less than the total
remaining cost to complete the public improvements secured thereby or to
complete the performance of such other obligations as may be secured thereby,
plus an amount equal
to 25% of the original principal balance of the development security as it
existed prior to the request or approval of the initial reduction thereof. In
the event that any reduction of any development security shall be approved by
the Village Board, no such reduction shall become effective in any event until
such time as a new or substitute development security reflecting the reduction
is received by the village, and until such receipt the prior existing
development security shall remain in full force and effect and at that
principal amount which existed immediately prior to the approval of the
reduction in question by the Village Board.
   (D)   The form of development security shall be approved by the Village
Attorney and Village Engineer.
   (E)   A required development security shall not be canceled except with the
consent of the Village Board.
   (F)   Guarantees as set forth in this section shall not be required for
subdivisions located in the unincorporated areas within one and one-half miles
beyond the village limits or in those areas so located but declared to be the
responsibility of another municipality as part of an approved boundary line
agreement where there is evidence that agreements are entered into between the
owner or subdivider and this county, except that for public improvement within
the unincorporated areas within one and one-half miles beyond the village
limits, and not relegated to another municipality as part of an approved
boundary line agreement, where the village standards of public improvements are
of higher quality than county standards, such agreements may be required by the
village.
   (G)   The Village Clerk shall not certify the approval of the Village Board
of the final plat until the required bond, deposit or other guarantee has been
filed as required by this section.
   (H)   Sample irrevocable letter of credit:
 
(On Bank/Issuer Letterhead)
 
BENEFICIARY:   Village of Romeoville         APPLICANT:                                 
         1050 W. Romeo Road                                                              
         Romeoville, Illinois 60446                                                           
 
DATE:                                     NUMBER:                                    
 
EXPIRATION:   [Not less than two years
         from date first above named]   PRINCIPAL AMOUNT:                   
 
To Whom it May Concern:
 
   We hereby issue this Irrevocable Letter of Credit (the “Credit”) in your favor up to the aggregate amount of U.S. [insert
dollar amount equal to one hundred and twenty-five percent (125%) of the costs of completing all public improvements required of
the developer or subdivider together with the costs of performing all other obligations for which financial security is required
under this Chapter, or under the terms of any relevant annexation agreement or performance guarantee agreement].
 
   This Credit is issued to secure the completion and installation of [list all public improvements required of the developer or
subdivider, either specifically, by reference to any relevant annexation agreement or performance guarantee agreement, or by
citation to pertinent sections of this Chapter] and the performance of [list all other obligations of the developer or
subdivider for which financial security is required under this Chapter, or under the terms of any relevant annexation agreement
or performance guarantee agreement], all on or before [insert a date which is at least ninety (90) days before the expiration
date of the Credit].
 
   We engage with you that we will fully honor any draft drawn at sight under this Credit provided that:
 
   1.   Such draft is presented at our counters on or before [the above-stated expiration date], or before such other extended
expiration date as may result from any automatic renewal of this Credit as hereinafter set forth;
 
   2.   Such draft is accompanied by this original Credit;
 
   3.   Such draft is marked “Drawn under [Issuer’s] Irrevocable Letter of Credit No.        dated [insert date first above
named];
 
   4.   Such draft is accompanied by either (a) a statement signed by the Village President and the Village Engineer certifying
that as of the date of such draft, the [developer or subdivider] has failed or defaulted in [the completion and installation of
all public improvements required of the developer or subdivider, and/or the performance of any other obligation for which
financial security is required under this Chapter, or under the terms of any relevant annexation agreement or performance
guarantee agreement], or (b) a statement signed by the Village Assistant Manager certifying that the Village of Romeoville has
received written notice of [Issuer’s] election not to renew this Credit for an additional one (1) year term as hereinafter set
forth.
 
   The principal amount of this Credit shall automatically be deemed to be reduced by the amount of any drafts drawn hereunder
and honored by [Issuer]. Furthermore, the principal amount of this Credit may from time to time be reduced to such amounts as
may be approved in writing by the Village of Romeoville Board of Trustees pursuant to the written recommendation of the Village
Engineer, provided, however, that neither the issuance of this Credit nor any such reduction shall constitute any waiver of any
rights that the Village of Romeoville may have against [developer or subdivider], nor shall the issuance of this Credit or any
such reduction serve to limit, modify or otherwise excuse the [developer or subdivider’s] performance of any other obligation
owed to the Village of Romeoville. However, unless and until the Village Board of Trustees accepts in writing and pursuant to
the written recommendation of the Village Engineer [the completion and installation of all public improvements required of the
developer or subdivider, and/or the performance of any other obligation for which financial security is required under this
Chapter, or under the terms of any relevant annexation agreement or performance guarantee agreement], in no event shall the
Village of Romeoville Board of Trustees and Village Engineer be obligated to issue or recommend in writing any reduction of this
Credit which would reduce the then-current principal balance of this Credit to an amount which is less than the sum of (a) ten
percent (10%) of the original principal amount of this Credit, and (b) the Village Engineer’s estimate of the cost necessary to
[complete the construction and installation of all public improvements required of the developer or subdivider, and/or the
performance of any other obligation for which financial security is required under this Chapter, or under the terms of any
relevant annexation agreement or performance guarantee agreement].
 
   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Credit shall automatically renew itself for successive terms of one (1)
year from the above-stated or any future expiration date and without other amendment or modification hereto unless and until the
Village Assistant Manager of the Village of Romeoville receives, not less than ninety (90) days before the above-stated or any
future expiration date, written notice from [Issuer], via registered mail, return receipt requested or via nationally recognized
overnight courier, that [Issuer] elects not to renew this Credit for any such additional successive terms. All drafts drawn at
sight hereunder during any such additional successive term shall be fully honored by [Issuer] when presented at our counters in
accordance with the terms hereinabove set forth. In the event that the Village Assistant Manager of the Village of Romeoville
receives such a notice from the [Issuer] prior to the expiration of the then-current term of this Credit, then the Village may
at any time thereafter within such then-current term of this Credit draw its draft on sight for the remaining balance of this
Credit in accordance with the terms and conditions hereinabove set forth.
 
   In the event that [Issuer] fails to honor any draft of the Village of Romeoville drawn under this Credit and in conformity
with its terms, [Issuer] shall pay to the Village of Romeoville, in addition to any and all damages resulting from such
dishonor, all attorney, expert witness fees, professional service fees, court costs incurred by the Village of Romeoville in
connection with its efforts to obtain the honor of such draft, regardless of whether or not litigation ensues in relation
thereto.
 
   This Credit is subject to the provisions of Article 5 of the Illinois Uniform Commercial Code, 810 ILCS 5/5-101 et seq.
Furthermore, this Credit is subject to the then-current Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (the “UCP”),
International Chamber of Commerce Publication No. 600, as revised from time to time, except to the extent that said UCP
conflicts with said Article 5, or with an express term of this Credit.
 
                              Very truly yours,
 
                              [Issuer]
 
                              BY:                                                       
 
                              ITS:                                                       
 
                              ATTEST:                                               
 
                              ITS:                                                       
 
 
(Prior Code, § 158.015) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 36-01, passed 2-
21-2001; Ord. 12-1014, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 14-1128, passed 7-16-2014)
**** REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS ****
§ 156.40 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Conformity. All subdivisions shall be designed to conform with the
planning principles and the layout and design requirements of this section and
Chapter 157.
   (B)   Basic principles. Basic principles exist which should be recognized
and heeded in designing circulation layout. These principles concern the design
of entire street systems rather than individual elements of the system, and so
express concepts rather than specific standards. In applying them, however,
specific standards for pavements widths, intersection design and related design
features are essential.
   (C)   Design of local circulations systems. Basic consideration in the
design of local circulations systems must recognize the factors of:
      (1)   Safety for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (2)   Efficiency of service for all users;
      (3)   Livability or amenities, especially as affected by traffic elements
in the circulation system; and
      (4)   Economy of both construction and use of land.
   (D)   Principles for systems layout. Each of the following principles is an
elaboration of one or more of these four factors. The principles are not
intended as absolute criteria, since instances may appear where certain
principles conflict. The principles should, therefore, be used as guides to
proper systems layout.
      (1)   Adequate vehicular and pedestrian access should be provided to all
parcels.
      (2)   Local street systems should be designed to minimize through-traffic
movements.
      (3)   Local street systems should be logical and comprehensible, and
systems of street names and house numbers should be simple, consistent and
understandable.
      (4)   Local circulation systems and land development patterns should not
detract from the efficiency of major and collector streets.
      (5)   Elements in the local circulation system should not have to rely on
extensive traffic regulations in order to function efficiently and safely.
      (6)   Traffic generators within residential areas should be considered in
the local circulation pattern.
      (7)   Planning and construction of residential streets should clearly
indicate their function.
      (8)   The local street system should be designed for a relatively uniform
low volume of traffic.
      (9)   Local streets should be designed to discourage excessive speeds.
      (10)   Pedestrian-vehicular conflict points should be minimized.
      (11)   A minimum amount of space should be devoted to street uses.
      (12)   There should be a minimum number of intersections.
      (13)   The arrangement of local streets should permit economical and
practical patterns, shapes and sizes of development parcels.
      (14)   Local streets should be related to topography from the standpoint
of economics, drainage and amenities.
      (15)   Open space areas should be provided, commensurate with the
projected population density of the development.
      (16)   Major elements of the street system may be used to help define and
buffer different land use areas, enhancing their identity and cohesiveness.
      (17)   The street and pedestrian circulation pattern in a new residential
subdivision should be compatible with the village’s land use and street and
highway plan.
      (18)   Subdivision layout should minimize the overall length of streets.
      (19)   A residential area should be conveniently accessible from major
streets and highways.
      (20)   Access points to major and collector street facilities should be
limited in number, given special design consideration and whenever possible,
located where other features are not competing for a driver attention.
      (21)   Driveway entrances should be prohibited on major streets and,
whenever possible, on collector streets in residentially zoned areas.
      (22)   Through-traffic on local residential streets should be avoided
where practical.
      (23)   Lot layout in residential subdivisions should be designed to
reduce the incidence of housing on major streets.
      (24)   Public utilities, including water, storm sewer and sanitary sewer
facilities, should be existing or proposed by the developer of the village of a
size adequate to serve the proposed subdivision and any future development they
may be required to service.
   (E)   Layout and design requirements for proposed lots of record and
outlots.
      (1)   Subdivisions shall consist solely and exclusively of lots of
record, outlots, easements, public right-of-way and public improvements.
      (2)   All proposed lots of record shall front on a public street or
roadway, and shall be as rectangular in shape as possible.
      (3)   All proposed lots of record shall meet or exceed the lot size
dimensions and area requirements of any applicable zoning regulations; provided
further, however, that these lots shall meet or exceed the following
dimensional requirements:
 
Land Use Category Lot Depth (feet) Lot Width (feet)
Agricultural      200              300
Business          100              70
Manufacturing     200              80
Open space        100              100
Residential       100              70
 
      (4)   Rear, side and front yard easements shall be dedicated to the
village for use by the village and private utility companies (for gas,
electricity, cable television, water, storm sewer, sanitary sewer and the like)
as provided herein. Wherever possible, rear yard easements should be avoided.
      (5)   Where double frontage residential lots are platted abutting a major
or collector street, a landscape treatment, in combination with a no-access
strip, shall be depicted on those lots adjacent to the street, and the
applicable rear yard setback requirements shall be increased 15 feet for lots
abutting major streets.
   (F)   Layout and design requirements for proposed blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,500 lineal feet in length, nor be less
than 600 feet in length. Pedestrian ways leading to schools, parks, other
common destinations or as deemed necessary by the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be provided.
      (2)   The shape of blocks shall be determined by topographical features,
the basic street system and traffic pattern, lot depths and areas designated
for public and other nonresidential uses.
      (3)   Where a subdivision borders upon or is traversed by a railroad
right-of-way or major street, the Planning and Zoning Commission may require a
street on one or both sides of that right-of-way or street, located
approximately parallel to and at a distance removed suitable for the
appropriate use of the intervening land; i.e., park purposes, deep residential
lots fronting on it with a no-access strip along the rear property lines and
off-street parking, business or other uses as permitted by the zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 158.025) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.41 REQUIRED PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   After approval of the preliminary plan, and prior to the filing of an
application for approval of the final plat, the owner or developer/subdivider
shall submit to the Village Engineer, and other public officials having
jurisdiction, construction plans and specifications prepared by a professional
engineer licensed to practice engineering in the state, for required land
improvements. These construction plans and specifications shall be approved by
the Village Engineer and other public officials having jurisdiction and
approval shall be certified on the final plat.
   (B)   Before a final plat may be approved by the Village Board, the owner or
developer/subdivider shall submit to the Village Engineer complete plans and
specifications prepared by a registered engineer who shall certify, in writing,
to the Village Board that such improvements meet the minimum requirements set
forth in this chapter and other applicable requirements of the village and
other governmental bodies.
(Prior Code, § 158.026) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.42 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Design.
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   Streets shall be designed and located in relation to existing
and planned streets; to topographical conditions and natural terrain features,
such as streams and existing tree growth; to public convenience and safety; and
in appropriate relation to the proposed uses of land to be served by such
streets.
         (b)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way as established by
the village.
         (c)   All thoroughfares shall be properly related to special traffic
generators, such as industries, business districts, schools, churches and
shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
         (d)   Minor streets shall be laid out to conform, as much as possible,
to the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to encourage efficient
drainage and utility systems and to require the minimum number of streets
necessary to provide convenient, safe access to property.
         (e)   It is the intent that the street system, whether public or
private, to encourage safe and efficient traffic flow and provide safe
vehicular storage space for stopping and turning movements so as not to
conflict at intersecting streets or driveway entrances.
         (f)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
parcel to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the Planning and Zoning Commission,
extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of
the subdivision site plan with the existing layout or the most advantageous
future development of adjacent parcels.
         (g)   In business and industrial develop- ments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas so as to minimize conflict of movement between the various
types of traffic.
         (h)   Dual access shall be provided in any subdivision site plan
beginning with the initial construction and shall be maintained in suitable
condition for passage of private and emergency vehicles.
         (i)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad or
highway, the Planning and Zoning Commission may require a street approximately
parallel to and on each side of such railroad or highway, at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, for park purposes in
residential districts or for commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate
districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard for the
requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
         (j)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
highway or major thoroughfare, the Development Review Committee may require
marginal access streets, reverse-frontage with screen planting contained in a
non-access reservation, at least ten feet wide, along the property line; deep
lots with rear service alleys; or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
through and local traffic.
         (k)   Developments shall be designed so that the developer/subdivider
provides not less than one-half of the right-of-way dedication required for an
exterior street.
      (2)   Design criteria.
         (a)   Tangent sections (measured from ROW of intersecting street).
            1.   Tangents (minimum length 100 feet) shall be introduced between
horizontal reverse curves on all streets.
            2.   Tangents (minimum length 50 feet) shall be introduced at the
end of all curvilinear roads at intersections.
         (b)   Cul-de-sac and U-streets.
            1.   The use of u-shaped streets is not encouraged.
            2.   The length of a cul-de-sac street shall not exceed 750 feet in
length as measured along the center line of the cul-de-sac street from the
centerline of the start of the origin to the end of the right-of-way.
            3.   Cul-de-sac terminus shall have a minimum pavement diameter
measured 80 feet edge-to-edge in areas zoned residential, and 100 feet in all
other areas.
         (c)   Intersections. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as
nearly as possible to right angles and no new street shall intersect any
existing street at less than 80 degrees nor more than 100 degrees. No more than
two streets shall intersect at any one point unless specifically approved by
the Development Review Committee.
         (d)   Horizontal curves.
            1.   a.   Horizontal curves are required where the angle of
deflection in horizontal center lines exceeds five degrees.
               b.   The radius of the horizontal center line curve shall not be
less than the following dimensions depending on the classification of the
street involved:
                  i.   Major street: 500 feet;
                  ii.   Collector street: 300 feet;
                  iii.   Minor street: 100 feet; and
                  iv.   Any variance must demonstrate that the curve has a
radius adequate to ensure clear sight distances.
         (e)   Vertical curves. Vertical curves shall be used whenever the
algebraic difference in centerline gradients exceed 1%. The length of the
vertical curve shall be established on the basis of design speed and stopping
distance in accordance with “A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and
Streets” (AASHTO, latest edition).
         (f)   Street grades.
            1.   Grades shall provide proper relation between the street and
the first floor elevation of the houses or buildings to permit convenient and
economical access to and drainage of the lots.
            2.   All streets shall be graded to their full width, including
side slopes and the sub-grade of the areas to be paved.
            3.   Street gradients shall be as specified in Appendix A: Table A-
1: Street Design Guidelines to this chapter.
            4.   Residential driveway slopes shall be between 2% and 8%.
         (g)   Intersection design.
            1.   All intersections (street-to-street and driveway-to-street)
should encourage safe traffic flow.
            2.   Streets and driveways shall be located to avoid centerline
offsets between other streets and driveways of at least the following minimum
dimensions:
               a.   Driveway-to-driveway: 100 feet;
               b.   Driveway-to-local: 125 feet;
               c.   Local-to-local: 125 feet;
               d.   Driveway-to-collector: 125 feet;
               e.   Local-to-collector: 150 feet;
               f.   Collector-to- collector: 200 feet;
               g.   If requested, a traffic study will be prepared to determine
the required length of storage or stacking and the minimum dimension shall be
such that the driveway (full-access) will not be located in the storage or
taper. Right-in/right-out access can be closer to an intersection with village
approval; and
               h.   Residential driveway-to- residential driveway: maximized to
the extent possible.
            3.   Curb radii. Minimum curb return radii shall be measured from
the center to the back of curb, and shall conform to the following:
               a.   Major/major: 30 feet radius;
               b.   Major/boulevard: 30 feet radius;
               c.   Major/collector: 30 feet radius;
               d.   Major/local: 25 feet radius;
               e.   Boulevard/boulevard: 30 feet radius;
               f.   Boulevard/collector: 30 feet radius;
               g.   Boulevard/local: 25 feet radius;
               h.   Collector/collector: 30 feet radius;
               i.   Collector/local: 25 feet radius;
               j.   Local/local: 25 feet radius; and
               k.   Minimum internal roadway (commercial/industrial) radius: 25
feet.
         (h)   Alleys.
            1.   Alleys may be required in commercial, business and industrial
districts, except where definite and assured provisions are made for service
access, such as off-street loading, unloading and parking, consistent with and
adequate for the uses proposed and in accordance with the provisions of the
zoning ordinance.
            2.   Alleys in residential areas shall not be permitted, except
where approved and recommended by the Development Review Committee.
            3.   The width of alleys shall not be less than 20 feet.
            4.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alley alignment shall
be avoided, but, where necessary, corners may be cut off sufficiently to permit
safe vehicular movement.
            5.   Dead-end alleys are prohibited.
            6.   Alley pavement shall conform to the construction standards set
forth in this section.
         (i)   Traffic calming and control devices. The village may, at its
discretion, require the use of roundabouts or other traffic-control devices in
the design of roadways within a subdivision. Costs for traffic calming and
control devices shall be included in the applicant’s letter of credit.
   (B)   Right-of-way dedication.
      (1)   All street and roadways proposed within the confines of a
subdivision shall be located in dedicated public rights-of-way. Street right-
of-way widths shall be as specified in Appendix A: Table A-1: Street Design
Guidelines.
      (2)   Where streets define the separation of two or more zoning
districts, right-of-way dedication shall be provided so as to meet the
requirement of the zoning district requiring the larger right-of-way.
      (3)   A private roadway system may only be contemplated in situations
where there is adherence to the following standards.
         (a)   The private roadways must be integral to the development in
question. Private roadways may not connect to adjacent developments.
         (b)   Appropriate easements, both for utilities and future roadway
widening, if necessary, must be included in the design.
         (c)   Appropriate setbacks, both for buildings and for parking, must
be included in the design. At a minimum, the setbacks must be equivalent to the
zoning district setbacks measured from the curb line, but not less than the
width of easements.
         (d)   The design of the private roads must meet the criteria of this
chapter.
      (4)   Each cul-de-sac street shall terminate with a circular area having
a minimum right-of-way diameter of 110 feet in residential areas and 120 feet
in all other areas.
      (5)   Reserve strips (sometimes called “spite” strips) controlling access
to public utilities or streets shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Construction standards. The standards and specifications contained
within this chapter may be modified, amended or amplified by the Director of
Public Works. Such modifications, amendments and amplifications are available
at the Public Works Department.
      (1)   Street improvements.
         (a)   Street improvements shall be provided in each new subdivision
site plan in accordance with the regulations set forth in this section and the
tables of minimum standards and typical section as set forth as Appendices A
and B to this chapter, respectively.
         (b)   The regulations for street improvements are as follows.
            1.   All streets in single-family residential zoning areas shall be
constructed in accordance with this chapter.
            2.   All streets in multi-family and commercial zoning areas shall
be constructed in accordance with minor collector standards.
            3.   For industrial and other special use areas as determined by
the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Village Engineer.
            4.   All street construction, including the items listed above,
shall conform to the requirements of the State Department of Transportation
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, current edition, and
amended from time to time.
      (2)   Soils. All unsuitable sub-base material shall be removed and shall
be replaced with stable, compacted material in conformance with generally
accepted engineering practices. Soil test reports are to be submitted to the
Village Engineer at the time of plan submittal. Sub-grade stability
improvements will be required for soils with an IBR less than 4.0. Lime
stabilization may be utilized but must be in accordance with State Department
of Transportation Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,
current edition, and be approved, in writing, by the Director of Pubic Works.
      (3)   Pavement. All pavement thicknesses, including surface, base courses
and sub-base courses, shall be designed in accordance with the State Department
of Transportation standards. The minimum thicknesses for Class IV streets (as
designated in IDOT’s current Bureau of Design and Environmental Manual) shall
be as specified in Appendix B: Roadway Specifications to this chapter. Proof
roll of the sub-base and base course shall be conducted and densities of the
subbase, base course, binder course and surface course of all streets shall be
field-verified during construction with nuclear methods by a developer employed
testing service.
      (4)   Class III streets. Class III streets (as designated in IDOT’s
current Bureau of Design and Environmental Manual) require design data to be
submitted to the Village Engineer at the time of plan submittal and shall
always meet or exceed the minimum requirements in Appendix B: Roadway
Specifications. However, alternate materials may be considered by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, if recommended by the Village Engineer, if structurally
equal.
      (5)   Curbs and gutters.
         (a)   Curb and gutter shall be constructed on all streets and shall be
combination (integral) concrete. Curbs may be constructed integrally with the
portland cement concrete pavement. All curbs and gutters shall be installed in
accordance with the minimum standards and specifications as contained in
Appendix A: Table A-1: Street Design Guidelines or as approved by the Village
Board after recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (b)   Curb and gutter shall be Type B-6.12 unless otherwise noted in
Appendix A: Table A-1: Street Design Guidelines or as required by the Village
Engineer for wider pavement widths.
         (c)   All curb shall be designed with a minimum slope of 0.5% unless
otherwise approved by the Village Engineer.
         (d)   Curb ramps shall be designed in accordance with all federal,
state and local guidelines with respect to accessibility. At a minimum, ICC/
ANSI A117.1 - latest edition and the Illinois Accessibility Code, 71 I.A.C.
400, should be used during design. Then current IDOT Standard Details for Curb
Ramps shall be included on design plans.
         (e)   Curb and gutter poured next to concrete pavements shall be done
in accordance with then current IDOT details.
      (6)   Street signs.
         (a)   The developer will pay for all street name and regulatory signs.
All signs will be installed by the developer in accordance with the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices and consistent with the traffic control plan.
The cost of all signage is to be included in the letter of credit. All signs
are to be installed within one week of the construction of the roadway
bituminous binder.
         (b)   The signs shall meet the following requirements.
            1.   A sign plan is required as part of the development plans and
must be approved by the Village Board and Police Department before signs are to
be installed.
            2.   Sign supports shall be two pounds U-channel galvanized posts
with ground sleeves cut four feet; cut to height.
            3.   Stop sign - 30-inch diamond grade V.I.P. stop sign-local
streets (reflective).
            4.   Stop sign - 36-inch diamond grade V.I.P. stop sign-collector/
arterial streets (reflective).
            5.   Speed limit sign - 24 inches by 30 inches diamond grade V.I.P.
- 25 mph on local streets (see attached).
            6.   Speed limit sign - 24 inches by 36 inches diamond grade V.I.P.
collector/arterial (see attached).
            7.   Twenty-five mph and under - green on both sides - residential
street name signs green with four inch white letters - six inch extruded blade
(letters to be reflective) high intensity sheeting (18” minimum blade).
            8.   Over 25 mph - 080 covered blank; green on both sides;
collector streets and greater six inch white letters - nine inch (letters to be
reflective) high intensity sheeting (18 inch minimum blade).
      (7)   Striping.
         (a)   The developer will pay for all stripage. All stripage will be
installed by the developer in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices and consistent with the traffic control plan. The cost of all
stripage is to be included in the letter of credit. All stripage are to be
installed within one week of the construction of the roadway bituminous
surface.
         (b)   Raised reflective pavement markers shall be required only where
deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works on centerline skip dash,
double yellow centerline turn lanes.
         (c)   Stop bars shall be 24 inches wide and required at all stop sign
locations.
         (d)   Crosswalks shall have six-inch wide lines at intersections;12-
inch wide bars at school crossings.
         (e)   All permanent striping shall be thermoplastic.
         (f)   Temporary paint striping shall be required after binder
placement on all collector streets or where deemed necessary by the Director of
Public Works.
      (8)   Restrictions on building permits.
         (a)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the roadway
bituminous binder course must be installed up to the front of the principal
structure for which the permit has been applied.
         (b)   Prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit, the subdivided lot
shall have a driveway paved with an asphalt and/or concrete surface minimally
extending from the adjacent public street to the front setback line of the
principal structure located on the lot. If weather conditions or other
circumstances beyond the developer’s control prevent installation of all or
portions of the driveway and all other requirements for the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy have been met, a letter of credit or a performance
guarantee approved by the Village Attorney to ensure completion of approved
driveway shall be filed with the Village Manager. The amount of the performance
guarantee and the required completion data shall be recommended by the Zoning
Administrator based on current costs and set by the Village Board.
      (9)   Partially completed streets. In the event that a development is
planned for initial construction with a binder course only, with the surface
course to follow upon completion of the development, the following criteria
shall apply.
         (a)   Binder wedges are required along the edge of all public roads
where the binder is to be exposed for more than six months.
         (b)   The surface layer is to be placed based on the criteria in this
division (C).
         (c)   Wedges are required around all manholes.
(Prior Code, § 158.027) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 07-0541, passed 6-
6-2007; Ord. 12-1014, passed 11-7-2012)
§ 156.43 SIDEWALK AND PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   (A)   Design.
      (1)   Concrete sidewalks shall be provided along the lot or throughout
the subdivision to serve the anticipated needs of its residents and customers.
Sidewalks shall be located in accordance with proper land planning procedures
and with due regard for public safety and anticipated concentration of
pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   In residential subdivision, sidewalks shall be located in dedicated
street rights-of-way and they shall be parallel to the street surface on both
sides of the street unless otherwise directed by the Development Review
Committee. Cul-de-sacs shall have sidewalks around the terminus along with a
crossing at the mouth of the bulb.
      (3)   Where the street design and parallel sidewalk arrangement does not
provide reasonably direct pedestrian access to and from school sites, park
sites, neighborhood commercial centers and other pedestrian traffic generators,
pedestrian ways shall be provided in side yard or other easements or dedicated
right-of-way or as directed by the Development Review Committee so as to permit
reasonably direct pedestrian access to and from such sites.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the fact that installation of sidewalks is required
to be completed within two years of final plat approval, the corporate
authorities may, upon application, grant extensions for up to six months for
such sidewalk completion. No more than four such extensions may be granted. No
extension shall be granted unless or until the applicant’s (developer’s)
subdivision security bond or letter of credit has been extended to remain valid
during the term of any such extension. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed
a waiver of the applicant’s (developer’s) responsibility to complete the
sidewalks, and provided further that, if the applicant (developer) transfers
ownership of any lot the sidewalk of which has not been accepted by the
village, the applicant (developer) and the owner of the lot shall be jointly
and severally responsible for the completion and maintenance of the sidewalk.
   (B)   Right-of-way dedication. All sidewalks and pedestrian ways shall be
installed in dedicated public right-of-way or public easements. The right-of-
way shall extend no less than one foot on each side of the sidewalk or
pedestrian way surface.
   (C)   Construction standards. The standards and specifications contained
within this chapter may be modified, amended or amplified by the Director of
Public Works. Such modifications, amendments and amplifications are available
at the Public Works Department.
      (1)   All sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet wide and typically be
installed one foot from the right-of-way (within the right-of-way). Where
practicable, all sidewalks shall be located so that a parkway separates the
curbs from the sidewalk. Sidewalks in commercial districts may be wider as
deemed necessary by the Development Review Committee.
      (2)   Where sidewalks are placed adjacent to the curb, the widths must be
two feet wider than those used when a plated strip separates the sidewalk from
the curb. This additional width provided space for roadside hardware and snow
storage outside the width needed by pedestrians. It also allows for the
proximity of moving traffic, the opening of doors or parked cars and bumper
overhang.
      (3)   Sidewalks in residential districts shall be constructed of portland
cement concrete (Class SI) to a minimum thickness of five inches, except at
driveway locations where the thickness shall be a minimum thickness of six
inches. A compacted aggregate base with a minimum thickness of four inches
shall be provided under all sidewalks. Concrete for such sidewalks shall
conform to the State Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction, current edition.
      (4)   Sidewalks in commercial/industrial districts shall be constructed
of portland cement concrete (Class SI) to a minimum thickness of six inches,
except at driveway locations where the thickness shall be a minimum thickness
of eight inches. A compacted aggregate base with a minimum thickness of four
inches shall be provided under all sidewalks. Concrete for such sidewalks shall
conform to the State Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction, current edition.
   (D)   District location.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided for in this or other regulations,
sidewalks shall be constructed within all zoning districts, and when deemed
necessary by the Development Review Committee, Planning and Zoning Commission
and/or Village Board.
      (2)   Pedestrian ways leading to schools, parks, other common
destinations or as deemed necessary by the Development Review Committee,
Planning and Zoning Commission and/or Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 158.028) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 07-0541, passed 6-
6-2007; Ord. 12-1014, passed 11-7-2012)
§ 156.44 STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   General. Street lighting shall be designed in accordance with the
requirements of the “American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting,”
latest edition.
   (B)   Material. All materials shall meet the requirements of the appropriate
IES NEMA Standards, and shall be approved by the Underwriters Laboratory.
   (C)   Equipment. Street lights shall be of the type and variety as provided
by the local electric power company, their equivalent or better, and be subject
to approval by the Village Engineer. Within residential areas, street lights
shall consist primarily of an aluminum standard with contemporary post top
luminaire, and shall have a luminaire mounting height of 16 feet above grade.
In cases where a mast arm and a horizontal burning luminaire are used, the
maximum luminaire height shall be 25 feet above grade.
   (D)   Construction and wiring. All work shall conform to the applicable
sections of the National Electric Code, as adopted by the village. All
underground wiring shall be polyethylene uniduct or shall be installed in
conduit of two inch minimum.
   (E)   Service. The developer/subdivider shall arrange with the local
electric power company for electric service, and shall bear the expense of any
charge by the electric power company to furnish the service connection. The
location of any service connection and the control equipment shall be shown on
the drawing.
   (F)   Design. All developments/subdivisions shall be designed so that street
lights are provided in locations and in a manner as to do and accomplish the
following:
      (1)   Provide a street light at every cross or “T” intersection and at
the end of every cul-de-sac or eyebrow on local streets; and
      (2)   Provide additional street lights as may be necessary so that street
lights are not more than 350 feet apart.
   (G)   Right-of-way dedication. All street lights shall be installed in
public easements or dedicated public rights-of-way. Easements and rights-of-way
shall be of sufficient width, and the street lights shall be installed in such
locations therein, that will not reasonably interfere with other public
utilities.
(Prior Code, § 158.029) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.45 STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGEWAYS.
   (A)   Design. All subdivisions shall be designed so the proposed stormwater
drainage system does and accomplished the following:
      (1)   Extends the storm system through the proposed subdivision to serve
upstream properties in the natural drainage area. The storm system should
reflect the ultimate development of the drainage area;
      (2)   The storm system should be designed to provide positive drainage.
This will provide a convenience system to pass frequent floods, and an
emergency system to pass more severe floods;
      (3)   The storm system is assumed to consist of such components as
sewers, channels, swales, natural drainageways, inlets, catch basins, manholes,
streets, detention/retention basins and other necessary facilities;
      (4)   The drainage plans shall have a certification by a registered
professional engineer as follows:
“I,                                , hereby certify that adequate storm water
storage and drainage capacity has been provided for this development, such that
surface water from the development will not be diverted onto and cause damage
to adjacent property for storms up to and including the one hundred (100) year
event, and that the design plans are in compliance with all applicable state,
county, and village ordinances.”
      (5)   All storm sewer systems shall be entirely separate from the
sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers shall be designed to convey the peak flow
from a ten-year rainfall event. Rainfall frequency data shall be obtained from
the Rainfall Frequency Atlas of the Midwest, Bulletin 71 or any subsequent
revision thereof. Storm sewer outfalls shall be designed to function at their
design capacity during flood conditions on the receiving stream or other body
of water. The minimum size of storm sewer shall be 12 inches in diameter.
         (a)   Public storm sewer systems. All storm sewer systems to be
dedicated to and accepted by the village as public improvements shall be
constructed of reinforced concrete pipe, without exception.
         (b)   Private storm sewer systems. All private storm sewer systems
constructed in residential areas shall meet the requirements set forth in
division (A)(5)(a) above. Storm sewer systems in nonresidential areas
(excluding parks, open areas or any areas developed in connection with or
intended for use as an amenity to or facility for any residential area) may be
constructed of materials other than reinforced concrete pipe; provided that the
applicant, developer, contractor or any other entity proposing to install a
storm sewer system provides the Village Engineer with sufficient technical data
illustrating the storm sewer system meets or exceeds characteristics and
performance capabilities of reinforced concrete pipe. Any material proposed
other than reinforced concrete pipe must have approval of the Director of
Public Works and the Village Engineer.
      (6)   Culverts under thoroughfare streets shall be designed to pass the
100-year peak flow with no adjacent property damage. Culverts under collector
streets shall be designed to pass the 50-year peak flow without damage. Culvert
material shall consist of reinforced concrete sewer pipe or corrugated metal
pipe;
      (7)   (a)   No ditch system shall be permitted. Drainage shall be
provided through storm sewers with a ten year design capacity. Additional
stormwater sewer shall be conveyed through street and surface grading to pass
up to the 100-year discharge without damage. Bypass channels shall use natural
drainageways as much as possible, and shall convey up to the 100-year peak flow
without damage. Modified or artificial channels shall be lined with concrete up
to the ten-year stage, with adequate capacity to pass up to the 100-year peak
flow without damage.
         (b)   Channel modifications will be permitted only if the following
conditions are met.
            1.   The hydraulic capacity is maintained.
            2.   The existing flood storage is maintained.
            3.   The banks are adequately stabilized.
            4.   The appropriate permits have been obtained.
            5.   Swales in backyards and other areas shall be permitted
provided the following conditions are met.
               a.   The maximum side slopes shall be a six to one (6:1) ratio.
               b.   Appropriate easements are provided; a minimum of 20 feet
wide.
      (8)   Inlets will be located as necessary to collect surface water, but
shall be spaced a maximum of 400 feet. Catch basins before a storm sewer enters
a manhole. Manholes shall be located at the junction of two storm sewer pipes,
or at any change in grade alignment or size of the pipe. Maximum spacing of
manholes shall be 400 feet; and
      (9)   Streets and parking lots should be designed and their grades
established such that they can convey or store up to the 100-year rainfall
event without damage. The maximum allowable depth in the street shall be nine
inches, measured in the curb and gutter. The maximum allowable depth in parking
lot shall be nine inches. Streets and parking lots shall be designed to provide
positive drainage.
   (B)   Right-of-way/easement dedications.
      (1)   All drainageways shall be located in dedicated public rights-of-
way. All storm sewers shall be located in public easements or dedicated public
rights-of-way.
      (2)   Easements and rights-of-way shall be of sufficient width and storm
and/or sanitary sewer shall be installed at such locations therein as to permit
open cut installation, maintenance and repair within the confines of the
easement or right-of-way without relocation or other unreasonable interference
with other public utilities located therein, and so as to meet the following
minimum standards: 15 feet in width, plus five feet for each additional
utility, plus, for storm and/or sanitary sewers in excess of 24 inches in
diameter, two additional feet for each 12 inches or portion thereof of
additional storm and/or sanitary sewers diameter; provided, however, if storm
and/or sanitary sewers exceed 15 feet in depth, additional right-of-way may be
required.
   (C)   Construction standards. All storm sewers shall use materials and be
installed in the manner meeting or exceeding the requirements, standards and
specifications contained in the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois, the most current edition, as amended,
supplemented and amended by the Village Engineer. These standards and
specifications, with the modifications, amendments and amplifications of the
Village Engineer, are available at the Public Works Department.
   (D)   Oversizing. Where applicable, the developer/subdivider shall install
storm systems sufficient in size and depth to carry the storm runoff from
upstream properties naturally tributary to the proposed subdivision. The
village shall make special provisions for that developer/subdivider to
recapture those additional costs incurred as a result of oversizing and over-
excavating the storm system.
(Prior Code, § 158.030) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 2421-96, passed 5-
15-1996; Res. 0007-02, passed 2-20-2002; Ord. 12-1014, passed 11-7-2012)
§ 156.46 SANITARY SEWERS AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Design. All subdivisions shall be designed so the proposed sanitary
sewer system does and accomplishes the following:
      (1)   Extends interceptor sanitary sewers through the proposed
subdivision to serve upstream properties in the natural drainage area;
      (2)   Provides sanitary sewer services with separate service connections
terminating not less than two feet inside the property or easement line to each
proposed lot of record;
      (3)   Provides adequate capacity to drain the portions of the subdivision
proposed to be served by the sewer, and any property upstream thereof which
drains into or may drain into that sewer, based on the effluent discharge
reasonably expected from the development to the type and to the maximum density
permitted by the then-existing zoning regulation of the village for property
within the corporate limits, and the land comprehensive plan for property
outside the corporate limits;
      (4)   Manholes:
         (a)   Provides public manholes at the end of each line; at all changes
in grade, size or alignment; at all intersections; and at distances not greater
than 400 feet for sewers 15 inches or less, and 500 feet for sewers 18 inches
to 30 inches. Greater spacing may be permitted in larger sewers and in those
carrying a settled effluent; and
         (b)   Provides a drop pipe for sewers entering a manhole at an
elevation of 24 inches or more above the manhole invert. Where the difference
in elevation between the incoming sewer and the manhole invert is less then 24
inches, the invert should be filtered to prevent the depositing of solids.
      (5)   Maintains separation from public water supply system;
      (6)   Discourages the use of sewage pumping facilities;
      (7)   Permits the use of private sewage, disposal systems only in the
following situations:
         (a)   Public water and public sewer not accessible, minimum size lot
for private sewage disposal shall be 4,356 square feet;
         (b)   Public water available, minimum size lot for private sewage
disposal shall be 2,000 square feet; or
         (c)   Private sewage system shall be installed in accordance with
county standards.
      (8)   Designed to prevent installations of sanitary sewers in the rear or
side yard easements.
   (B)   Right-of-way dedication. All sanitary sewers shall be installed in
public easements or dedicated public rights-of-way. Easements and rights-of-way
shall be of sufficient width and the sewers shall be installed at such
locations as to permit open-cut installation, maintenance and repair within the
confines of the easement or right-of-way without relocation or unreasonable
interference with other public utilities located therein, and so as to meet the
following minimum standards: 15 foot width, plus five feet for each additional
utility, plus, for sanitary sewers in excess of 24 inches diameter, two
additional feet for each 12 inches or portions thereof of additional sewer
diameter; provided, however, if sanitary sewers exceed 15 feet in depth,
additional right-of-way may be required.
   (C)   Construction standards. All sewers shall use materials and be
installed in such manner meeting or exceeding the required standards and
specifications contained in the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois, the current edition as then modified,
supplemented and amended by the modifications, amendments and amplifications of
the Village Engineer, available at the Public Works Department.
   (D)   Oversizing. Where applicable, the developer/subdivider shall install
sanitary sewer mains sufficient in size and depth to carry sanitary discharge
from the upstream properties naturally tributary to the proposed subdivision.
The village may make special provisions for that developer/subdivider to
recapture those additional costs incurred as a result of oversizing and over-
excavating the sanitary sewer.
   (E)   Excessive inflow/infiltration. The developer will be required to
monitor the flow from the site for a period of at least two months
(encompassing at least two major storm events) to identify any excessive
inflow/infiltration occurring in the system. The data must be submitted to the
village prior to acceptance of the public improvements.
(Prior Code, § 158.031) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.47 WATER DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPLY.
   (A)   General. All subdivisions shall be designed so the proposed water
distribution and supply system does and accomplishes the following:
      (1)   Extends water mains through the proposed subdivision to serve
otherwise unserved abutting properties;
      (2)   Provides water service, with separate service connections
terminating not less than two feet inside the property or easement line, to
each proposed lot of record;
      (3)   Provides adequate capacity to serve all the lots proposed to be
served by the line, plus any additional extensions to the main which might be
made to develop property in the same pressure area with the type of uses, and
to the maximum density permitted by the then-existing zoning regulations of the
village with respect to the property within the corporate limits, and the land
use element of the village’s comprehensive plan for proposals outside the
corporate limits;
      (4)   Looped water mains so as to avoid dead ends;
      (5)   Provides standard fire hydrants at each intersection of two or more
public streets or roadways, and provides additional hydrants as are necessary
so that hydrants are not more than 300 feet apart in all areas. All fire
hydrants shall have auxiliary valves;
      (6)   The minimum size water main shall be eight inches in diameter;
except on a minor cul-de-sac street, serving ten homes or less, a six-inch
water main is acceptable; and
      (7)   Permits the use of private wells only in the following situation:
         (a)   In subdivisions in unincorporated areas;
         (b)   Minimum size lot served shall be 20,000 square feet; and
         (c)   Well shall be in accordance with county standards.
   (B)   Right-of-way/easements dedication. All water mains shall be installed
in public easements or dedicated public rights-of-way, such easements and
rights-of-way to be of sufficient width and the water mains to be installed at
such locations as to permit open-cut installation, maintenance and repair
within the confines of the easement or right-of-way without relocation or
unreasonable interference with other public utilities located therein. The
minimum public easement width shall be 15 feet.
   (C)   Construction standards. All water mains shall use materials and be
installed in a manner meeting or exceeding the required standards and
specifications contained in the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois, the current edition, as then modified,
supplemented and amended by the Village Engineer. These standards and
specifications with the modifications, amendments and amplifications of the
Village Engineer are available at the Public Works Department.
   (D)   Oversizing. Where applicable, the developer/subdivider shall install
water mains sufficient in size to serve future growth in the vicinity of the
subdivision. The village shall make special provisions for that developer/
subdivider to recapture those additional costs incurred as a result of
oversizing the water main.
   (E)   Leaks. The developer will be required to conduct a leak detection
survey by sounding and correlating with computerized equipment every valve box,
hydrant and service to identify any leaks occurring in the system. The data
must be submitted to the village prior to acceptance of the public
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 158.032) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 2421-96, passed 5-
15-1996; Ord. 12-1014, passed 11-7-2012) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.48 OTHER PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Design.
      (1)   Except as specifically authorized by this chapter, all new public
and quasi-public utilities, including gas lines, electrical lines, telephone
lines and cable TV transmission lines, shall be located underground and, except
for individual building or property services, shall be located in public
easements or dedicated public rights-of-way. Existing aboveground utilities
shall be relocated underground upon development of a parcel. Easements or
rights-of-way shall be of sufficient width and the utilities shall be installed
at such locations therein as to permit open-cut installation, maintenance and
repair within the confines of the easement or right-of-way without relocation
or other unreasonable interference with other public or quasi-public utilities
located therein.
      (2)   Three-phase electrical transmission lines and electrical
transformer facilities may be located aboveground on poles at such heights and
locations along the perimeter of the subdivision so as not to be unsightly or
hazardous to the public, and as may be approved by the Village Board.
      (3)   Front yard electrical transformers and telephone pedestals shall
not be located aboveground in front yard easements or dedicated rights-of-way.
Side yard electrical transformers and telephone pedestals may be located
aboveground when they are located behind the subdivision building setback line.
   (B)   Construction standards. All utility installations shall conform with
the applicable village, State Commerce Commission regulatory or accepted
industrial standards, whichever impose the highest and most demanding
requirements for the preservation and protection of the public health, safety
and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 158.033) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 156.49 TREE PRESERVATION AND PLANTING PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures to promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
by providing for the regulation of the planting, maintenance and removal of
trees or shrubs on public property within the village. This plan is to also
provide for the proper parkway and right-of-way standards and establishment of
new trees, the protection and maintenance of existing trees and timely removal
of hazardous and infectious diseased trees on both public and private lands.
The complete urban forest is comprised of trees across all land uses and
ownership on public and private land. This chapter will regulate public
property trees but recognizes that trees on private property are part of the
collective community resource.
   (B)   Statement of value. Trees are a valuable infrastructure to the
village. The village values trees as a critical infrastructure, and like other
infrastructure, require maintenance and upkeep. Unlike other critical
infrastructure, trees actually increase in value over time and the benefits
they provide increase exponentially as they mature.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning
ascribed to it in 92 I.A.C. §§ 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
      ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
      APPLICANT. Person applying for a permit under this chapter.
      ARBORIST. An individual trained and experienced in the profession of
forestry or other similarly degreed and/or licensed tree professional.
      CALIPER. The diameter of the tree measured at six inches above ground
level. CALIPER measurements are typically used to report the diameter of trees
that are less than three inches in diameter at four and one-half feet above
ground level.
      CALIPER INCH(ES). Unit(s) used to describe a tree’s diameter as measured
by calipers or a diameter tape.
      CODE. The Municipal Code of the Village of Romeoville.
      CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance,
placement, alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in
place of infrastructure.
      DECIDUOUS TREE. One that loses most or all of its leaves for part of the
year. DECIDUOUS TREES are also considered to be broad-leaf or hardwood trees.
      DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (DBH). The diameter of the trunk of the tree
measured in caliper inches at a point four and one-half feet above ground line.
This point of measurement is used for established and mature trees and is
referred to as DBH. All references to diameter size shall be to the DBH.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any proposed change in the use or character of land,
including, but not limited to, the replacement of any structure or site
improvements. When appropriate to the context, DEVELOPMENT may refer to any
conduct which requires the receipt of a building or site work permit.
      DIRECTOR. The Village Director of Public Works or their designee.
      DRIP LINE. The ground directly beneath the tips of a tree’s outermost
branches.
      EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used
to install or remove infrastructure.
      EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material or by
digging.
      IMPACTED TREE. A tree which has been negatively affected by proximity to
development, vehicle or equipment traffic, material storage, excavation or
other damages as determined by the village.
      INFECTED (INFECTION). Affected by tree diseases, such as Dutch Elm
Disease or Oak Wilt.
      INFESTED (INFESTATION). Inhabited by insects or overrun in numbers or
quantities large enough to be harmful.
      MAINTENANCE ACTIVITY. Any activity including, but not limited to, the
pruning, spraying, injecting, bracing and nutrient supplementation of a tree
with the intention of improving or maintaining tree health and/or structure.
      MULTI-STEM TREE. A single tree made up of three or more main stems
originating below the height used for measuring DBH.
      NATURAL AMENITY EXCEPTION. A landscape and preservation plan intended as
a substitute for the replacement requirements of this chapter.
      PARKWAY. An unpaved land within a public right-of-way parallel and
adjacent to the roadway.
      PARCEL. A lot of record, zoning lot or any grouping of adjacent lots
under single ownership, serving a principal structure or use.
      PERMIT. A written authorization from the Governmental entity authorizing
the “applicant” or their designee to conduct work which may or may not impact a
tree.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property not owned by the village.
      REMOVAL. The cutting down or substantial destruction of a tree.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication, prescription of condemnation and intended to be occupied by a road,
railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline, waterline, sanitary
storm sewer and other similar uses.
      SITE. That parcel of land for which a permit for landscaping or tree
removal is sought.
      SUPERINTENDENT OF OPERATIONS. The person appointed by the Director of
Public Works or their designee to serve as the primary authority on the
establishment, care and removal of trees within the village, or any person
authorized to act in the Superintendent’s stead, referred to as SUPERINTENDENT
throughout this chapter.
      TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within a tree’s crown
to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
      TREE. Any self-supporting woody plant, together with its root system,
growing upon the earth usually with one trunk, or a multi-stemmed trunk system,
supporting a definitely formed crown. For regulatory purposes of this chapter,
the plant commonly referred to as “buckthorn” shall not be considered as a
TREE.
      TREE REMOVAL. The cutting down, destruction, removal or relocation of any
tree life processes, unaided by humans, for a reasonable period of time.
   (D)   Applicability.
      (1)   The provisions of this section apply to trees planted in public
right-of-way or on public property, without temporal limitation (i.e., the
ordinance is in effect 24 hours per day, seven days per week, 365 days per
year, and application of the ordinance does not require a triggering event such
as a building permit application). For regulations concerning tree planting and
landscaping on private property refer to the zoning code, §
157.037.
      (2)   The provisions of this section apply to any new development or
plat, any redevelopment, any expansion or building addition, any modification
of any existing parcel or any construction taking place within the public
right-of-way or on public property. Compliance with this section is a condition
for the approval of any development/engineering plans or the issuance of any
certificates of occupancy or review/approval of any permit application
pertaining to or impacting trees upon all municipal streets, right-of-way,
village parks or other public property. It is further intended to balance the
property rights of individual property owners with those of the overall health,
safety and welfare interests of the village.
   (E)   Delegation of authority and enforcement. The Superintendent of
Operations and/or their designee shall have full authority and responsibility
to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees and woody plants growing in or upon
all municipal streets, rights-of-ways, village parks and other public property.
This shall include the removal of trees that may threaten electrical,
telephone, gas or any municipal water or sewer line, or any tree that is
affected by fungus, insect or other pest disease. The Superintendent shall
consult with a certified arborist for tree removals, with the exception of an
emergency weather or other casualty conditions a tree is endangering health,
safety or property and requires immediate removal.
      (1)   Training required for performance of maintenance. Other than
village staff that adequately display arboricultural training, degrees or
certifications; only contractors that have a certified arborist on staff or
contractors that adequately display arboricultural training, degrees or
certifications shall perform work or maintenance on right-of-way or public
property trees. This shall include any maintenance or removal of trees that may
threaten any municipal infrastructure, or any tree that is affected by fungus,
insects or other pest disease.
      (2)   Insurance requirements for contractors. All contractors performing
forestry activities on village owned trees shall possess an insurance policy
approved by the village.
      (3)   Coordination among village departments. All village departments
will coordinate as necessary with the Director and will provide services as
required to ensure compliance with this section as it relates to streets,
alleys, rights-of-way, drainage, easements and other public properties not
under direct jurisdiction of the Director.
      (4)   Tree Board. There is hereby created and established a committee to
be known as the Village Tree Board.
         (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the Committee is to help assure the
maintenance and expansion of the village’s tree canopy and the health and
safety condition of the trees in the community. Members of the Tree Board shall
assist the village with tree preservation, planting, management and protection
of trees within the village.
         (b)   Membership. The Village Tree Board shall consist of up to 13
members, or which up to nine of those members shall be members of the
Conservation and Sustainability Committee (Ord. 35-201). The remaining members
shall consist of the Village Manager, Director of Public Works and
Superintendent of Operations, all of which are appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the Village Board. Members of the Tree Board shall be the appointed
staff as listed above, or residents of the village that have a basic interest
and understanding of urban forestry. The terms of office shall confirm with
those under the Conservation and Sustainability Committee (Ord. 35-201).
         (c)   Duties and responsibilities. The following shall consist of a
minimum of the following:
            1.   Coordinating Arbor Day activities;
            2.   Assisting with Tree City USA application(s);
            3.   Reviewing concerns and advising on tree related matters;
            4.   Promoting awareness and education on trees;
            5.   Organizing educational workshops;
            6.   Creating educational materials (i.e., brochures on proper tree
planting and maintenance);
            7.   Assist in developing and revising the comprehensive tree
management plan (written plan for care, preservation, planting, pruning,
removal and disposition of trees in public areas); and
            8.   Provide input for the species list for planting.
      (5)   Interference. No person shall hinder, prevent, delay or interfere
with the Superintendent or their agent(s) while engaged in carrying out the
execution or enforcement of this section.
      (6)   Appeals. If any person contests a decision made by the
Superintendent, that person shall appeal to the Village Board in writing. The
decision of the Village Board shall be final.
      (7)   Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating any provision of
this section shall be assessed at a cost as prescribed in §
10.99. Each tree cut down, destroyed, damaged, removed or moved shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition to these penalties, if a tree is
removed in violation of this section, all replacement requirements of this
section shall be applied. The cost associated with a tree removal that has not
been approved by the village shall consist of a minimum fine in the amount of
$500 per DBH, in addition to the actual cost to purchase and install a new tree
of the minimum requirement.
      (8)   Exceptions. If, because of emergency weather or other casualty
conditions, a tree is endangering health, safety or property and requires
immediate removal, oral authorization may be given by the Superintendent for
the tree removal without obtaining a written permit. Such oral authorization
shall later be confirmed in writing to the village.
   (F)   Tree planting and maintenance. It shall be unlawful to plant any tree
in any public street, parkway, right-of-way or other public place without
having first secured a permit from the village therefor. Applications for such
permits shall be made to the Superintendent of Operations. No planting shall be
underway until the approved permit is received by the applicant. All trees so
planted in any right-of-way shall be placed subject to the directions and
approval under the permit. It shall be unlawful to plant any tree under utility
wires that is anticipated to grow in height that will interfere with the wires.
All planting and maintenance activities for trees shall follow best management
practices in accordance with the American National Standards Institute for
planting, pruning and maintenance (ANSI A300). All safety measures shall be
followed in accordance with the American National Standard for Arboricultural
Operations - Safety Requirements (ANSI Z133). All trees planted on public
property shall be from certified nurseries in accordance with the American
National Standard Institute for Nursery Stock (ANSI 260.1).
   (G)   Public tree preservation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group, entity, corporation or
organization to remove any tree in public right-of-way or on public property
without the prior written approval of the village.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group, entity, corporation or
organization to damage, deface, injure or prune a tree in public right-of-way
or on public property in such a way causes irrevocable harm to the tree. This
includes “tree topping” or the cutting of branches and/or the trunk of a tree
in a manner which will substantially reduce the overall size of the tree area
so as to destroy the existing symmetrical appearance or natural shape of the
tree in a manner which results in the removal of main lateral branches leaving
the trunk of the tree in a stub appearance.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group, entity, corporation or
organization to attach signs, notices or other advertising to any tree in
public right-of-way or on public property.
      (4)   Property owners are responsible for the maintenance of the trees in
the public right-of-way adjacent to their property. The village and its
authorized agents shall have the right but not the obligation to plant, prune,
maintain or remove trees in the public right-of-way or on public property as
may be necessary to ensure public safety, preserve or enhance the quality of
the vegetation and beautify the village. The village may remove or cause to be
removed as soon as practical any tree in the public right-of-way or on public
property that is diseased or dying, or that poses an irreconcilable threat to a
utility, or that otherwise threatens the public health, safety or general
welfare.
      (5)   In areas where construction is taking place within the public
right-of-way, every effort shall be made to preserve the existing trees. A tree
preservation plan shall be completed that includes the following.
         (a)   Trees to be saved shall be prominently marked, these markings to
be visible at normal eye level and at the working level of equipment operators.
         (b)   Movement of construction equipment and any other vehicles shall
be restricted to clearly make routes.
         (c)   Temporary barriers shall be erected prior to construction to
prevent damage to the trunk, canopy or root zone of trees to be saved; for
instance, stakes and rope, snow, fences, wooden frame, cinder block, planking
over roots, and the like. Barriers equal in extent to the drip line of the tree
may be required in case of species particularly susceptible to root zone
damage.
         (d)   Use, storage or other deposition of equipment or material shall
be prohibited within the root zone of any tree to be saved; for example, paint,
oil, solvents, fuel, gravel, fill, concrete, sand, mortar, rubbish and the
like.
         (e)   Grading, filling, excavating or other disturbance within the
root zone of any tree to be saved shall be avoided, wherever possible. Where
this cannot be avoided, a tree well, terrace, retaining wall or other
protective device shall be installed as the first step of construction.
         (f)   If tree roots must be cut in the course of installing streets,
utility lines, foundations or other construction activity, this cutting shall
be by trenchers, backhoe equipment or other equipment which will ensure clean
cuts. Where damage is inflicted, pruning or other compensatory treatment shall
be done as soon as possible.
         (g)   Trees to be saved shall not be subjected to unfavorable changes
in drainage, either during or after construction.
   (H)   Public tree replacement. In the event that trees in the public right-
of-way or on public property cannot be preserved, or must be removed due to
disease or damage, they shall be replaced according to the following standards.
The replacement cost of the tree shall include the cost of the removal and
replacement of the tree that was damaged or could not be preserved. Relocation
of the tree is not recommended and will not be allowed unless approved by the
Superintendent for special circumstances.
      (1)   Two trees shall be planted for every tree removed.
      (2)   Tree selection and placement shall be according to division (I)
below.
      (3)   In the event that the replacement trees cannot fit in the right-of-
way adjacent to the project, a fee in lieu of can be assessed for the tree to
be planted in right-of-way elsewhere in the village. The fee in lieu shall be
determined by the Director of Community Development, not less than the amount
of $500 per inch of DBH, in addition to the actual cost of purchasing and
installing a tree of the minimum requirement. The fee in lieu of shall be paid
to the village and placed in a tree bank for tree replacement and care within
the village.
   (I)   Public tree planting. Any new development or subdivision, modification
to an existing parcel, tree permitted for planting, tree damaged in any way
that is not viable or any tree required by this section shall be planted in
accordance with the criteria below.
      (1)   All parkways or public rights-of-way shall be planted with trees a
minimum of two and one-half inches in caliper at the time of installation.
      (2)   Trees shall be planted a minimum of 30 feet and a maximum of 50
feet apart. Where trees cannot be planted due to conflicts with driveways or
utilities, replacement trees shall be required according to division (H) above.
      (3)   Trees shall not be placed within the following distances:
         (a)   Fifteen feet of a fire hydrant, streetlight and/or street sign;
         (b)   Five feet of a residential driveway or ten feet of a commercial
driveway unless authorized by the village;
         (c)   Twenty feet from the intersection of any residential, local or
minor street. Forty feet from the intersection of commercial, collector or
major street unless authorized by the village;
         (d)   Ten feet from any manhole, catch basin, water buffalo box or
utility structure; and
         (e)   Eight feet from any buried utility line.
      (4)   Tree species shall be varied so that no more than five of the same
species are adjacent and that one species does not comprise more than 30% of
all parkway plantings unless otherwise approved by the village.
      (5)   Trees shall be planted in the center of the parkway where possible.
Trees shall not be closer than two feet from the back of curb and two feet from
the sidewalk unless otherwise approved by the village.
      (6)   Trees are prohibited in parkways less than four feet wide. In
parkways between four feet and six feet wide, the village may prohibit trees if
they conflict with underground utility lines.
      (7)   In parkways between four feet and six feet wide, trees shall be
limited to the following species:
 
Common Name                          Botanical Name
Allegheny Serviceberry               Amelanchier laevis
American Hophornbeam a.k.a. Ironwood Ostrya virginiana
American Hornbeam                    Carpinus caroliniana
 
      (8)   In parkways greater than six feet wide, trees shall be any of the
following species:
Common Name Botanical Name
Common Name                         Botanical Name
Allegheny Serviceberry              Amelanchier laevis
American Hophornbeam aka Ironwood   Ostrya virginiana
American Hornbeam                   Carpinus caroliniana
American Linden a.k.a. Basswood     Tilia americana
American Yellowwood                 Cladrastis kentukea
Bur Oak                             Quercus macrocarpa
Chinkapin Oak                       Quercus muehlenbergii
Common Hackberry                    Celtis occidentalis
Crescendo Sugar Maple               Acer saccharum ‘Morton’
Espresso Kentucky Coffeetree (male) Gymnocladus dioicus ‘Espresso-JFS’
Frontier Elm                        Ulmus ‘Frontier’
Kentucky Coffeetree                 Gymnocladus dioicus
Marmo Maple                         Acer x freemanil ‘Marmo’
Northern Catalpa                    Catalpa speciosa
Northern Pin Oak                    Quercus ellipsoidalis
Ohio Buckeye                        Aesculus glabra
Patriot Elm                         Ulmus ‘Patriot’
Princeton Elm                       Ulmus americana ‘Princeton’
Prospector Elm                      Ulmus davidiana var. joponica
                                    ‘Prospector’
Purole Catalpa                      Catalpa, x erubescens ‘Purpurea’
Red Maple                           Acer rubrum
Red Oak                             Quercus rubra
Shingle Oak                         Quercus imbricaria
Shumard Oak                         Quercus shumardii
Summer Elixer Elm                   Ulmus chenmoui ‘JAB Morton’
Smoothleaf Elm (Dutch elm disease   Ulmus carpinifolia (Accolade, Discovery,
resistant cultivars only)           Homestead, Pioneer and Regal cultivars)
State Street Macie                  Acer miyabei ‘Morton’
Sugar Maple                         Acer saccharum
Swamc White Oak                     Quercus bicolor
Sycamore a.k.a. Exclamation London  Platanus occidentalis
Plant
Triump Elm                          Ulmus ‘Morton Glossy’
Tulip Tree                          Liriodendron tulipifera
White Oak                           Quercus alba
 
(Prior Code, § 158.034) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012; Ord. 25-1998, passed 8-20-2025) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.50 TEMPORARY ROADS; TRACKING DIRT ON STREETS.
   (A)   Construction roads. The developer/subdivider shall be responsible for
constructing any temporary roads which may be required for the purpose of
moving equipment and materials to and from the construction site. The location
of these roads, and the designation of routes for construction traffic, shall
be approved by the Village Board. In addition, the developer/subdivider shall
provide any signs that may be required by the Police Department for restricting
or directing traffic, and shall be responsible for maintaining these signs and
keeping streets clean.
   (B)   Tracking of dirt on streets. No vehicle shall be driven or moved on
any street within the village unless that vehicle is free from mud or other
foreign substance, and no vehicle shall spill or drop mud or other foreign
substance from that vehicle onto any street in the village except as provided
herein. No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street within the village
unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load
from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that
sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 158.035) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.51 PUBLIC LANDS DONATION.
   (A)   General. As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision, or
of a final plat of planned unit development, each subdivider or developer will
be required to dedicate land for park and recreational purposes and land for
school sites; to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the
parcel; to make a cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication; or to
provide a combination of both at the option of the village. Such dedication is
necessary to ensure proper provisions of park and school sites for persons who
are expected to reside within the subdivision or development, which sites would
otherwise have to be acquired at the expense of the general public, but whose
utility would generally be limited to residents of the parcel. All provisions
depend on the approval of the Village Board through recommendations by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Criteria for park and recreation land dedication.
      (1)   Philosophy of acceptance. The land or site for park and recreation
land dedication must be suitable for the purpose for which it is intended. Land
set aside by the developers for parks, recreation and conservation purposes
shall not be what has been left over after residential, commercial, industrial
and other municipal development has been taken for prime land.
      (2)   Requirement and population ratio. The applicant may be required to
dedicate for park and recreation purposes an amount of land determined on the
basis of six and one-half acres per 1,000 persons of ultimate population
calculated as provided in division (F) below, and in accordance with such
standards as may be adopted by the Department of Recreation.
      (3)   Location. The comprehensive park and recreation plan, as adopted by
the Department of Recreation, shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. A
central location which will serve equally the entire development is most
desirable and whenever feasible, the site shall be in close proximity to
elementary school sites. In large developments, these sites can be located
throughout the development according to established standards for park area
distances.
      (4)   Credit for private open spaces and recreation areas.
         (a)   When subdividers or developers provide their own open space for
recreation areas and facilities, it has the effect of reducing the demand for
local public recreational services. It is important to remember that the
concern is not ownership but that recreational needs are being met. Depending
on the size of the development, a portion of the park and recreation area in
subdivision or planned unit developments may, at the option of the Village
Board, be provided in the form of private open space in lieu of dedicated
public open space. The extent of same shall be determined by the Village Board,
based upon the needs of the projected residents and in conformance to the total
park and recreation land for the general area.
         (b)   In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated
parks will imply a substantially higher degree of improvement and the
installation of recreational facilities, including equipment by the developer
as part of their obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including
specifications of facilities to be installed, must be approved by the Village
Board, and before any credit is given for private recreation areas, the
subdivider or developer must guarantee that these private recreation areas will
be permanently maintained for such use by the execution of the appropriate
legal documents. The Village Board has the option to request a letter of credit
for the project. Private swimming clubs are included in this provision. When an
adjustment for private recreation areas is warranted, it will be necessary to
compute the total park land dedication that would have been required from the
subdivision or planned unit development and then subtract the credit to be
given.
      (5)   On site storage. No storage of any materials, including spoil
materials or top soil, will be allowed on any land designated as the land for
use as recreational use or land designated as future or proposed school sites,
without prior approval of the Village Board.
      (6)   Special requirements for park sites which include stormwater
detention or retention areas.
         (a)   The edges of the pond above the low water mark shall be sloped
for ease of maintenance with ordinary equipment.
         (b)   Adequate overflow channels and structures shall be provided
meeting all requirements of the various public bodies having jurisdiction of
these water impoundments. Further, such channels and structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation under
ordinary flood conditions and to minimize soil erosion and sedimentation under
extraordinary flood conditions (100-year frequency rainfall).
         (c)   At least 60 feet of space shall be provided between static water
lines (normal water level) of ponds and the lot lines of adjacent subdivision.
         (d)   There shall be at least a 100 foot suitable roadway access
around the impoundment at high water level, wide enough for maintenance and
emergency equipment. The roadway must be approved by the Village Board.
      (7)   Minimum size requirements for park sites which include stormwater
detention areas. At the option of the Board, the minimum size of any park site
which includes stormwater detention areas shall be seven acres. No more than
50% of such park site shall hold water during a “100-year rainfall.” At least
30% of the available high ground within such a park site shall be of sufficient
size, shape and quality to provide recreational facilities, playgrounds, picnic
areas and/or playfields.
      (8)   Minimum size requirements for park site which include stormwater
retention areas. At the option of the Board, the minimum size of any park site
which includes stormwater retention areas shall be seven acres. No more than
one-third of such park site shall hold water during a “100-year rainfall.” At
least 50% of the site must be of good high ground of sufficient size, shape and
quality to provide adequate recreational facilities, playgrounds, picnic areas
and/or playfields. The lake contours must be approved by the applicable
Recreation Department for aesthetic quality, safety and recreational
functionality (i.e., ice skating, fishing and the like) and by the Village
Engineer for hydraulic quality. The banks shall be protected by rip rap placed
and secured above and below the static water level and sodded above the high
water level, all in conformance with current State Highway Department
specifications. Each lake shall be tapered and terraced for safety.
   (C)   Criteria for requiring school site dedication.
      (1)   Philosophy of acceptance.
         (a)   All elementary, junior high and senior high schools shall be
located to serve the greatest number of children possible within walking
distance. Access shall be available on fully improved streets.
         (b)   The comprehensive school plan and the standards adopted by the
applicable school district and the village should be used as a guideline in
locating sites. Site location, configuration and the like will be determined
upon consultation with the school district.
         (c)   Land donations to the school district should be deeded directly
to the district.
      (2)   Requirement and population ratio.
         (a)   The ultimate number of students to be generated by a subdivision
or planned unit development shall bear directly upon the amount of land
required to be dedicated for school sites.
         (b)   The land dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining
the ratio of: estimated children to be served in each such school
classification over the maximum recommended number of students to be served in
each such school classification calculated from the table in subdivision and
then applying such ratio to the minimum recommended number of acres for school
site of each such school classification as stated in division (C)(3) above. The
product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed to have sufficient land for
school sites to serve the estimated increased children in each school
classification.
      (3)   School classifications and size of school site. School
classifications and size of school sites within the village shall be determined
in accordance with the following criteria:
 
School Classification By   Maximum Number of Students Minimum Number of Acres
School Grade               for each School            for each School Site
                           Classification
Elementary schools, grades
kindergarten K through 5th 600 students               11 acres
(K-5)
High schools, grades 9th   2,300 students             48 acres
through 12th (9-12)
Junior high schools,
grades 6th through 8th (6- 900 students               19 acres
8)
 
   (D)   Criteria for requiring a contribution in-lieu-of park and school
sites.
      (1)   Where the development is small and the resulting site is too small
to be practical or when the available land is inappropriate for park and
recreational purposes or a school site, the village shall require the
subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in-lieu-of the land
dedication required. The cash contributions in-lieu-of park and recreation land
dedication shall be held in trust by the village, or other public body
designated by the village, solely for the acquisition of park and recreation
land as hereinbefore classified, which will be available to serve the immediate
or future needs of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the
improvement of other existing local park and recreation land which already
serves such needs. The cash contributions in-lieu-of school sites shall be held
in trust by the village, or other public body designated by the village, for
the use in the acquisition of land for a school site or for the construction of
a school or schools to serve the immediate or future needs of children from
that subdivision or development or for the improvement to any existing school
site which already serves such needs. Improvement under this section shall be
liberally construed and shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
development of parking lots; sidewalks; traffic signals; arterial streets;
collector streets; internal roadways; connections with sewer, water and
internal roadways; connections with sewer, water and electrical lines;
playgrounds; recreation grounds; and athletic fields. Improvement shall also
include the purchase of any material, goods or equipment necessary to said
development and construction. Improvement shall further include the
construction of buildings; additions to existing school buildings; remodeled or
renovated non-instructional spaces in classrooms; and the purchase of
prefabricated classroom units to be used at a school site. If any improvement
provided for herein shall require voter referendum approval under existing
statutory authority before such funds may be lawfully expended, then and in
those cases such approval shall be first obtained.
      (2)   Fair market value. The cash contribution in-lieu-of land shall be
based on the “fair market value” of the acres of fully improved park and in the
area after development. The village has determined that the present fair cash
market value of one acre of land improved in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter and which would otherwise be available and permitted to be
developed in a manner similar to and consistent with the subdivision or
development in question is $100,000 per acre. The Village Board shall review
and if necessary adjust this valuation as reasonably required to reflect
changing valuations of improved land within the village. The valuation set
forth in this chapter, as adjusted from time to time, shall be used in
calculating the cash equivalent value of any land contribution determined in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter unless any subdivider,
developer or owner of land subject to this chapter with a pending application
for final plat or planned unit development on file with the village files a
written objection thereto. In the event of any such objection, the subdivider,
developer or owner shall submit an appraisal showing the “fair market value” of
land improved in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and which
would otherwise be available and permitted to be developed with residential
dwelling units in a manner similar to and consistent with the subdivision or
development in question together with other relevant evidence of the value
thereof. Final determination of said “fair market value” per acre of such
improved land shall be made by the Village Board based on the information
submitted by the subdivider, developer or owner and from such other sources as
may be available to the village.
   (E)   Criteria for requiring dedication and fee.
      (1)   There may be situations in subdivisions or planned unit
developments when a combination of land dedication and a contribution in-lieu-
of land are both advisable.
      (2)   These occasions will arise when:
         (a)   Only a portion of land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park or school site or the development does not have sufficient
or adequate land to meet the dedication requirements. The portion of the land
within the subdivision falling within the park or school location shall be
dedicated as a site as aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall
be required for any additional land that would have been required to be
dedicated; and
         (b)   A major part of the local park or recreation site or school site
has already been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the
development to complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by
dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required.
   (F)   Density formula. Exhibit A, Table of Population Density, is set forth
in this section.
      (1)   A document entitled, “Table of Estimated Ultimate Population per
Dwelling Unit,” prepared by the Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc. is
attached hereto, marked Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
      (2)   Such table of population density is generally indicative of current
and short range projected trends in family size for new construction and shall
be used in calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of land or
the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a written objection is filed
thereto by the subdivider or developer.
      (3)   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to
the table of estimated ultimate population to be generated from the subdivision
or planned unit development; and in that event final determination of the
density formula to be used in such calculations shall be made by the Village
Board based upon such demographic information submitted by the subdivider or
developer, and from other sources which may be submitted to the Village Board
by the Recreation Department and School District. It is recognized that
population density, age distribution and local conditions change over the
years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of
fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and
amendment if necessary.
   (G)   Reservation of additional land. Where the comprehensive plan for the
standards of the village call for a larger amount of park and recreational land
or school sites in a particular subdivision or planned unit development that
the developer is required to dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer’s
contribution shall be reserved for subsequent purchase at fair market value by
the village or other public entity designated by the village; provided that
such acquisition is made within one year from the date of approval of the final
plat.
   (H)   Combining with adjoining developments. Where the subdivision or
planned unit development is less than four acres, public open space or a school
site which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with
dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce usable recreation
areas or school sites without hardship on a particular developer.
   (I)   School facilities impact fee. An additional school facilities impact
fee shall be collected in accordance with the following tables, to be paid at
the time of issuance of the building permit:
School Facilities Impact Fee - Unit School District (K-12)
Number of 1/1/2004 to 6/ 7/1/2004 to 1/1/2005 to 6/ 7/1/2005 to 2006 2007 2008
Bedrooms  30/2004        12/31/2004  30/2005        12/31/2005
School Facilities Impact Fee - Unit School District (K-12)
Number of  1/1/2004 to 7/1/2004 to 1/1/2005 to 7/1/2005 to 2006   2007   2008
Bedrooms   6/30/2004   12/31/2004  6/30/2005   12/31/2005
Apartments
1 bedroom  $16                     $16                     $17    $18    $18
2 bedroom  $651                    $677                    $704   $732   $761
3+ bedroom $1,846                  $1,920                  $1,997 $2,077 $2,160
Attached Single-Family Dwelling Units
2 bedroom  $806                    $838                    $872   $907   $943
3 bedroom  $900        $1067       $1,234      $1,400      $1,455 $1,514 $1,575
4+ bedroom $1,569      $1,902      $2,236      $2,569      $2,672 $2,779 $2,890
Detached Single-Family Dwelling Units
2 bedroom  $681                    $708                    $736   $766   $796
3 bedroom  $1,763      $2,430      $3,097      $3,763      $3,914 $4,070 $4,233
4+ bedroom $2,640      $3,307      $3,974      $4,640      $4,826 $5,019 $5,220
School Facilities Impact Fee - Elementary School District (K-8)
Number of 1/1/2004 to 6/ 7/1/2004 to 1/1/2005 to 6/ 7/1/2005 to 2006 2007 2008
Bedrooms  30/2004        12/31/2004  30/2005        12/31/2005
School Facilities Impact Fee - Elementary School District (K-8)
Number of  1/1/2004 to 7/1/2004 to 1/1/2005 to 7/1/2005 to 2006   2007   2008
Bedrooms   6/30/2004   12/31/2004  6/30/2005   12/31/2005
Apartments
1 bedroom  $11                     $11                     $12    $12    $12
2 bedroom  $441                    $458                    $477   $496   $515
3+ bedroom $1,266                  $1,317                  $1,370 $1,425 $1,481
Attached Single-Family Dwelling Units
2 bedroom  $621                    $646                    $672   $699   $727
3 bedroom  $688        $815        $943        $1,070      $1,113 $1,158 $1,204
4+ bedroom $1,041      $1,262      $1,484      $1,705      $1,773 $1,844 $1,918
Detached Single-Family Dwelling Units
2 bedroom  $581                    $604                    $628   $653   $679
3 bedroom  $1,215      $1,674      $2,134      $2,593      $2,697 $2,805 $2,917
4+ bedroom $1,977      $2,477      $2,976      $3,476      $3,615 $3,760 $3,910
School Facilities Impact Fee - High School District (9-12)
Number of 1/1/2004 to 6/ 7/1/2004 to 1/1/2005 to 6/ 7/1/2005 to 2006 2007 2008
Bedrooms  30/2004        12/31/2004  30/2005        12/31/2005
School Facilities Impact Fee - High School District (9-12)
Number of  1/1/2004 to 7/1/2004 to 1/1/2005 to 7/1/2005 to 2006   2007   2008
Bedrooms   6/30/2004   12/31/2004  6/30/2005   12/31/2005
Apartments
1 bedroom  $5                      $5                      $5     $6     $6
2 bedroom  $210                    $218                    $227   $236   $246
3+ bedroom $580                    $603                    $627   $652   $679
Attached Single-Family Dwelling Units
2 bedroom  $185                    $192                    $200   $208   $216
3 bedroom  $212        $252        $291        $330        $342   $356   $371
4+ bedroom $528        $640        $752        $864        $899   $935   $972
Detached Single-Family Dwelling Units
2 bedroom  $100                    $104                    $108   $113   $117
3 bedroom  $548        $756        $963        $1,170      $1,217 $1,265 $1,316
4+ bedroom $663        $830        $998        $1,164      $1,211 $1,259 $1,310
 
   (J)   Topography and grading. The slope, topography, geology, grading and
ground cover of the dedicated site must be suitable for its intended purposes
and conform to design standards established by the Village Engineer. Grading on
sites shall not differ greatly from surrounding land.
   (K)   Improved sites. All sites to be dedicated or conveyed shall be
improved by the subdivider or developer at their cost. An “improved site” for
purposes of this chapter shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Contour and grading;
      (2)   All utilities to service the site consisting of electric, water,
sewer, streets, curbs and gutters and all required drainage;
      (3)   Sites for park and recreation lands shall include improvements for
paved parking facilities sufficient to service such sites;
      (4)   Sites for park and recreation lands shall comply with a landscape
plan to be submitted by the subdivider or developer for approval by the Board
of Trustees;
      (5)   Final plans for the improvement of dedicated sites shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees; and
      (6)   The improvement of all dedicated sites shall be completed by the
subdivider or developer within three years after final approval by the Board of
Trustees of the subdivision or resubdivision plat or final development plan.
   (L)   Land conveyance by warranty deed. Any land to be dedicated or donated
shall be conveyed by warranty deed. Prior to acceptance, a title insurance
commitment in the amount of no less than $1,000 must be provided. The title
insurance commitment must be acceptable to the village. The deed to public land
should be transferred when the developer secures plat approval.
   (M)   Cash contributions; payment. Cash contributions shall be in the form
of a check payable to the village and shall be deposited with the Village Clerk
based on the following guidelines:
      (1)   Fifty percent of the sum determined shall be paid at the time of
the final approval of the plat of subdivision or resubdivision or final
development plan;
      (2)   The balance may be paid in equal installments on issuance of the
building permit for each dwelling unit; provided, however, that in the event
said lands are the subject matter of an annexation agreement, payments shall be
made at the times and in the manner provided in said annexation agreement. In
any event, the balance shall be due and payable within three years from the
date of final approval of the subdivision or resubdivision plat or final
development plan; and
      (3)   Any such balance shall bear interest at the rate of 10% per annum
and shall be evidenced by a promissory installment judgment note in such form
as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (N)   Credit for land and cash or contribution of cash in-lieu-of land given
under annexation agreements. If a subdivider or developer has given land and a
contribution of money or a contribution of cash in-lieu-of land as part of an
annexation agreement and thereafter the subdivider or developer or their
successors submit a plan of subdivision or resubdivision or final development
plan which will increase the density of population in those areas covered by
the annexation agreement, then the subdivider or developer shall be required to
make an additional contribution of park and recreation land or land for school
sites or of cash in lieu thereof as outlined above. The additional land or cash
in-lieu-of land to be contributed shall be the difference between that land or
cash in-lieu-of land required as determined from the plat of subdivision or
resubdivision or final development plan and that land or cash in-lieu-of land
previously contributed under the annexation agreement.
   (O)   Severability and validity. If any provision of this chapter, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is declared invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such partial invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this chapter, which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application thereof, and to this extent the provisions
of this chapter are declared to be severable.
 
SCHOOL DONATION –> ((1)         x 0.0183 =          ) + ((2)             x 0.0211 =          ) + ((3)            x
0.0208 =          ) =              Total Acres
 
PARK DONATION – > (4)          x 0.0065 =           Total Acres
POPULATION PER UNIT - ROMEOVILLE, IL.
Type of Pre-School Elementary   Junior High High School
Unit
                   Grades K-    Grades 6-   Grades 9-12              Total Per
        0-4 Years  5 5-10 Years 8 11-13     14-17 Years Adults 18-up Unit
                                Years
POPULATION PER UNIT - ROMEOVILLE, IL.
Type of Unit    Pre-School       Elementary           Junior High          High School
                0-4 Years        Grades K-5 5-10      Grades 6-8 11-13     Grades 9-12 14-17    Adults 18-up     Total Per Unit
                                 Years                Years                Years
Apartments Multi-Family
     EfficiN/Ay             N/A                  N/A                  N/A                  x 1.000 =     x 1.000 =   
1 Bedroom       N/A              N/A                  N/A                  N/A                  x 1.200 =     x 1.200 =   
     2 Bedrx 0.025 =     x 0.026 =         x 0.015 =         x 0.025 =         x 1.600 =     x 1.691 =   
     3 Bedrx 0.145 =     x 0.145 =         x 0.027 =         x 0.059 =         x 2.330 =     x 2.706 =   
Attached Residential
     1 BedrN/A              N/A                  N/A                  N/A                  x 1.050 =     x 1.050 =   
     2 Bedrx 0.051 =     x 0.075 =         x 0.011 =         x 0.021 =         x 1.741 =     x 1.899 =   
     3 Bedrx 0.217 =     x 0.212 =         x 0.022 =         x 0.051 =         x 1.775 =     x 2.277 =   
     4 Bedrx 0.333 =     x 0.316 =         x 0.166 =         x 0.180 =         x 2.333 =     x 3.328 =   
Detached Residential
     2 Bedrx 0.125 =     x 0.110 =         x 0.026 =         x 0.018 =         x 1.650 =     x 1.929 =   
     3 Bedrx 0.251 =     x 0.320 =         x 0.158 =         x 0.208 =         x 1.875 =     x 2.812 =   
     4 Bedrx 0.396 =     x 0.431 =         x 0.284 =         x 0.447 =         x 2.210 =     x 3.768 =   
     5 Bedrx 0.338 =     x 0.446 =         x 0.380 =         x 0.467 =         x 2.650 =     x 4.281 =   
People Produced         �(1)         �(2)         �(3)         �        �(4)            Total
Notes to Table:
 
Use (1), (2) and (3) to calculate school site land donations and use (4) to calculate park site land donations.
 
(Prior Code, § 158.036) (Ord. 2313-95, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 04-0114, passed 2-
4-2004; Ord. 09-0778, passed 8-5-2009; Ord. 12-1014, passed 11-7-2012)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this
title or chapter, unless otherwise specified, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 158.999) (Ord. 2410-96, passed 3-20-1996; Ord. 12-1014, passed
11-7-2012)
APPENDIX A: TABLES
TABLE A-1: STREET DESIGN GUIDELINES
Street         Right-of-Way  Pavement Design Speed Number of Curb Type Allowed
Classification Parking Width Width                 Lanes
Street         Right-of-Way                                Design Number Curb
Classification Parking Width      Pavement Width           Speed  of     Type Allowed
                                                                  Lanes
Major arterial 120-150 ft.        State standards          55 mph 4-6    B-   no
                                                                         6.24
Secondary      120 ft.            (2) 24’ E-E plus 30’ 45 mph 4-5    B-   no
arterial                          median                                 6.24
Major          100 ft.            40’ E-E                45 mph 3      B-   no
collector                                                                6.12
Minor          80 ft.             36’ E-E                40 mph 2-3    B-   yes
collector                                                                6.12
Commercial     100 ft.            36’ E-E                35 mph 3      B-   yes
Districts                                                                6.12
Industrial     80 ft.             36’ E-E                35 mph 2      B-   no
Districts                                                                6.12
Local          66 ft.             29’ E-E                30 mph 2      B-   yes
residential                                                              6.12
Minor                             (2) 16’ E-E plus 30’               B-
collector/     100 ft.            median                   30 mph 2      6.12 no
boulevard
Residential    (See Detail)       18’ E-E around         15 mph 1      B-   no
roundabout     64’ inner circle                                        6.12
                                                                         B-
Cul-de-sac     110 ft.            80’ E-E res.           N/A    N/A    6.12 yes
               120 comm/ind       100’ E-E comm/ind.     N/A    N/A    B-   yes
                                                                         6.12
Alleys         20 ft.             20’ E-E                10 mph 1      N/A  no
Bike trails    20 ft.             10’ E-E                20 mph 2      N/A  N/A
 
Note: The table above to be used as guidelines for various roadway
classifications. Actual designs shall be subject to review and approval by
Village Engineer.
TABLE A-2: STREET SECTION GUIDELINES
Street Classification Minimum Pavement Requirements
                      Bituminous Alternate
Street         Minimum Pavement Requirements
Classification Bituminous                                                 Alternate
Major          6” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base
base           9” Bituminous Base Course                                6” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base
Arterial*      2.5” Bituminous Binder Course                            10” PC Concrete w/Wire Fabric
               2” Bituminous Surface Course
               4” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base
Secondary base 8” Bituminous Base Course                                4” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base
Arterial*      2.5” Bituminous Binder Course                            8” PC Concrete w/Wire Fabric
               1.5” Bituminous Surface Course
Major          4” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base
base           7” Bituminous Base Course                                4” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base
Collector      2.5” Bituminous Binder Course                            7” PC Concrete w/Wire Fabric
               1.5” Bituminous Surface Course
Minor base     4” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base                           4” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base
Collector      6” Bituminous Base Course                                8” CA-6 Crushed Stone Base
& Commercial   2.5” Bituminous Binder Course                            4.5” Bituminous Binder Course
Districts      1.5” Bituminous Surface Course                           2” Bituminous Surface Course
Industrial     6” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base
base Districts 8” Bituminous Base Course                                6” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base
(incl. culs-   2.5” Bituminous Binder Course                            8” PC Concrete w/Wire Fabric
de-sac)        1.5” Bituminous Surface Course
Local
Residential    4” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base 6” Bituminous Base Cours10” CA-6 Crushed stone Base
(incl.         2.5” Bituminous Binder Course                            4.5” Bituminous Binder Course
entrance,      1.5” Bituminous Surface Course                           2” Bituminous Surface Course
roundabouts,
culs-de-sac)
               10” CA-6 Crushed Stone Base                              4” CA-6 Crushed Stone Sub-base
Alleys base    2.5” Bituminous Binder Course                            7” PC Concrete
               1.5” Bituminous Surface Course
Bike Trails    6” CA-6 Crushed stone Base                               4” CA-6 Crushed stone sub-base
               2” Bituminous Surface Course                             5” PC Concrete
 
Note: The table above to be used as guidelines for various roadway
classifications. Actual designs shall be subject to review and approval by
Village Engineer.
TABLE A-3: DESIGN GUIDELINES
 
Type                   Maximum Gradient Minimum Gradient Clear Sight Distance
Arterials              6%               0.50%            As approved by the
Major collectors                                         Village Engineer
Minor collectors       6%               0.50%            As approved by the
                                                         Village Engineer
Residential Streets    8%               0.50%            As approved by the
                                                         Village Engineer
Commercial, Industrial 5%               0.50%            As approved by the
                                                         Village Engineer
Alley-Business*                                        As approved by the
                                                         Village Engineer
Alley-Residential*                                     As approved by the
                                                         Village Engineer
 
*Standards for these streets shall be as indicated or as determined by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the Village Engineer. See Appendix B:
Roadway Specifications.
(Prior Code, Ch. 158, App. A) (Ord. 07-0541, passed 6-6-2007; Ord. 12-1014,
passed 11-7-2012)
APPENDIX B: ROADWAY SPECIFICATIONS
   (A)   General.
      (1)   All developments shall be provided with street pavements and
appurtenances designed in accordance with this appendix.
      (2)   All roadway improvements shall be installed in accordance with the
material, installation and testing requirements of the “Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction in Illinois,” adopted by the Illinois
Department of Transportation, current edition, and the latest edition of the
“Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions”, unless
otherwise modified in this section.
      (3)   Specification references made herein for manufactured items, such
as pipe, cement, aggregates, etc. refer to designations of the American Society
for Testing and Materials (ASTM). Design references made herein refer to the
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO).
      (4)   All contractors constructing public roads in the Village of
Romeoville shall be pre-qualified with the Illinois Department of
Transportation. Bituminous and concrete plants supplying materials shall be
IDOT-certified.
      (5)   A permit is required prior to the start of any construction on
Public Easement or Rights-of-Way that would cut, alter, grade or excavate the
surface or support for the surface of any street, road, highway, parkway, curb,
sidewalk or way within the Village of Romeoville. A permit may be obtained at
the Department of Community Development, 1050 W Romeo Road, Romeoville, IL
60446.
   (B)   Basic Design Standards.
      (1)   The design of roadways in the Village of Romeoville shall be in
accordance with the general guidelines and typical cross sections found in
Appendix A: Street Design Guidelines. Variations from these guidelines are
required to be approved by the Village in advance.
      (2)   At the discretion of the Director of Public Works, a binder wedge
will be required along the edge of exposed gutter if installation of the
surface course is not anticipated within 30 days. The wedge will be the depth
of the surface course at the gutter edge, transitioning to zero depth a minimum
of 4 feet into the drive surface. This wedge is to ensure proper drainage and
protection of the gutter edge from snowplow damage.
   (C)   Material specifications. All pavement elements shall conform to the
following specifications:
      (1)   Bituminous concrete binder courses shall meet HOT-MIX ASPHALT
BINDER COURSE IL-19, N-50. Up to 25% RAP will be allowed in binder course.
      (2)   Bituminous concrete surface courses shall meet HOT-MIX ASPHALT
SURFACE COURSE IL-19, Mix C N-50 for residential streets and bike trails, and
HOT-MIX ASPHALT SURFACE COURSE IL-19, Mix D N-50 for all other streets, unless
approved in advance by the Village Engineer. Up to 15% RAP will be allowed in
surface course.
      (3)   Mix designs shall be submitted to Village thirty days prior to
work.
      (4)   Bituminous pavers shall have a minimum closed screed width of ten
feet (10’) and shall be equipped with electronic grade control.
      (5)   All concrete roadway construction materials for curb and gutter,
concrete pavement, lighting base foundations, etc. shall meet IDOT material
requirements for Class SI concrete as applicable.
      (6)   Thermoplastic materials used for pavement markings and roadway
striping shall meet applicable articles of IDOT Standard Specifications. This
work shall be undertaken in accordance with IDOT allowable calendar dates and
weather conditions unless approved in advance by Village of Romeoville.
   (D)   Testing and Acceptance.
      (1)   Contractor shall notify the Public Improvement Coordinator, the
Village Engineer and the materials testing firm forty-eight (48) hours prior to
work or test being performed. If an existing street is to be partially or
totally closed, the developer is to notify the Village of Romeoville Department
of Public Works, Fire Department, Police Department, and all School Districts
forty-eight (48) hours in advance prior to closing. Written approval by the
Director of Public Works is required prior to any partial or total road
closure.
      (2)   Pavement Observation Procedures (including bike paths) shall be as
follows:
         a.   Proof roll Sub-grade — (Acceptable proof roll vehicle-14 ton
(50,000 gross) Semi-truck 21 ton (73,000 gross)).
            1.   Before curb and gutter is installed.
            2.   One inch (1”) rut and one inch (1”) roll maximum.
            3.   Repair sub-grade until an acceptable proof roll is obtained.
         b.   String-line Sub-grade.
            1.   Plus one-half inch (+1/2”) maximum.
         c.   Proof roll Sub-base (if applicable).
            1.   No movement-rutting or rolling-allowed.
            2.   Repair Sub-base and other underlying layers if necessary until
an acceptable proof roll is obtained.
         d.   String-line Sub-base (if applicable).
            1.   Plus one-forth inch (+1/4”) maximum.
         e.   Proof roll Aggregate base course (if applicable).
            1.   No movement-rutting or rolling allowed.
            2.   Repair aggregate base course and other underlying layer if
necessary until an acceptable proof roll is obtained.
         f.   String-line Aggregate base course (if applicable).
            1.   Plus one-forth inch (+1/4”) maximum.
         g.   Proof roll Bituminous base course (if applicable).
            1.   No movement rutting or rolling allowed.
            2.   Repair bituminous base course and other underlying layer if
necessary until an acceptable proof roll is obtained.
         h.   Density Test Bituminous base course (if applicable).
            1.   On-site density testing is performed by an independent testing
firm acceptable to the Village Engineer and cores taken to check thickness per
Village Engineer.
         i.   String-line Bituminous base course (if applicable).
            1.   Plus one-forth inch (+1/4”) maximum.
         j.   Check Condition of Pavement/Aggregate Prior to base course.
            1.   Bituminous material (prime coat) must be cured prior to
placement of binder.
            2.   Priming immediately in front of paver is NOT ALLOWED.
         k.   Density test binder course.
            1.   On-site density testing performed by an independent testing
firm acceptable to the Village Engineer and if needed cores taken to check
thickness.
            2.   Repair bituminous binder course by removal and replacement for
failed areas or a method acceptable to the Village Engineer.
         l.   Check Conditions of Pavement binder course prior to surface
course. The Developer is responsible for pavement maintenance including filling
potholes when requested by the Village.
            1.   Surface Course shall be installed as follows;
               (a)   Only after one winter season and seventy-five percent
(75%) of occupancy permits issued.
               (b)   Surfacing shall be completed within three years of
installation of the binder.
            2.   Clean pavement and curbs prior to proof roll.
            3.   Proof roll bituminous binder course. No movement-rutting or
rolling allowed. Repair binder course be removal and replacement.
            4.   If cracks are greater than one-half inch (1/2”) wide and occur
over twenty-five percent (25%) of the pavement, then repair bituminous binder
course and other underlying layers until an acceptable proof roll is obtained.
            5.   If cracks are less than one-half inch (1/2”) wide and occur
over twenty-five percent (25%) of the pavement, then repair bituminous binder
course by HEATER SCARIFY, overlay method, or a method acceptable to the Village
Engineer.
               (a)   If cracks are less than one-half inch (1/2”) and less than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the area, then repair binder and base course as
necessary.
               (b)   If longitudinal and transverse cracking are less than ten
percent (10%) of the length, then repair with mix for cracks.
               (c)   If longitudinal and transverse cracks are greater than ten
percent (10%) of the length, then repair with crack fill acceptable to the
Village Engineer.
            6.   Remove and replace damaged curb and gutter. The minimum length
of removal and replacement is ten feet (10’).
               (a)   Two (2) Rebar dowels are required in replacement sections.
               (b)   Replacement curb requires dowel bars (2) at each end.
Maximum diameter three-quarter inch (3/4”).
               (c)   Any pavement disturbed by curb replacement shall be saw
cut a minimum of eighteen inches (18”) wide. Length to be determined by the
Engineer.
               (d)   Bituminous driveway aprons disturbed by curb removal shall
be saw cut a minimum twenty-four inches (24”) wide and replaced full width.
               (e)   Any concrete driveway aprons disturbed by curb removal
shall be saw cut at the closest joint and replaced full width.
            7.   Remove cold patch and replace with hot mix. Place level binder
in binder irregularities, trench settlement, etc.
            8.   Bituminous material (tack coat) will be placed only if the
Village Engineer accepts the conditions of the pavement.
            9.   Bituminous surface course placed on pavement not accepted by
the Village or Village Engineer will be removed and replaced.
            10.   Bituminous material (tack coat) must be cured prior to
placement of surface. Priming immediately in front of the paver is not allowed.
         m.   Density test bituminous surface course (if applicable).
            1.   On-site density testing performed by an independent testing
firm acceptable to the Village Engineer and cores taken to check thickness.
            2.   Repair bituminous surface course by removal and replacement
areas or a method acceptable to the Village.
 
MATERIAL TESTING REQUIREMENTS Village Will Observe All Testing Performed
Test Items Test           Who Performs Number of      Test Paid By Test Ordered
                          Test         Tests                       By
           Proof Roll     Contractor/  Entire Project Developer    Developer
Sub-grade  String-Line    Testing Firm Entire Project Developer    Developer
                          Contractor
           Proof Roll     Contractor/  Entire Project Developer    Developer
Aggregate  String-Line    Testing Firm Entire Project Developer    Developer
                          Contractor
Structural Concrete       Testing Firm Concrete       Developer    Developer
           See IDOT Stand              See IDOT Stand
Bituminous Rolling        Testing Firm               Developer    Developer
           Pattern
           Asphalt        Testing Firm                Developer
Concrete   Temperature                              Developer    Developer
                          Testing Firm                Developer
           Nuclear
           Density Test
 
   * The thickness of the completed pavement will be verified by the cores. A
minimum of four (4) core specimens per day are required.
All firms used for bituminous and concrete testing shall be approved or chosen
by the Village Engineer at the Developer’s cost. The testing firms shall be
agreed upon at the pre-construction conference meeting. The developer shall
notify the Engineer and the Village a minimum of 48 hours prior to any
bituminous paving or concrete placement.
ASPHALT TESTING REQUIREMENTS
Testing shall consist of all applicable site testing. Site testing shall
include establishing a rolling pattern, asphalt temperature, nuclear density
test, (a minimum of two sets and a maximum of six tests for streets less than
1500’), and any other testing deemed necessary by the Village Engineer. The
testing company’s technician shall provide verbal test results while paving,
and written results within 48 hours to the Village Engineer.
If any individual street has an average density per IDOT requirements of less
than minimum requirements, that street shall be deemed as having failed and
further testing and/or replacement shall be required.
The Developer will supply the Engineer with a list of plants that will be used
for work on site. The plant list will include a list of plant codes as they
correlate to IDOT approved mixes. This list must be delivered to the Village
Engineer 10 working day prior to asphalt being placed. The testing firm’s
inspector shall fill out the Village form, and return it to the Village
Engineer, along with a copy of field and lab reports. The testing firm is
responsible for all field and lab tests, and reports.
CONCRETE TESTING REQUIREMENTS
Structural concrete to be tested shall include but is not limited to; bridges,
box culverts, beams, retaining walls, and items noted by the Village Engineer.
Nonstructural items, such as curbs and sidewalks will be visually inspected by
the Village, but may be subject to additional testing if warranted as
determined by the Village. The Developer must notify the Village 48 hours prior
to all Concrete placement.
The developer will supply the Village Engineer with a list of batch plants that
will be used for work on the site. The batch plant list will also include a
list of plant codes as they correlate to IDOT approved mixes. The list must be
delivered to the Village Engineer prior to any concrete being placed.
The testing firm’s inspector shall fill out the Village form, and return it to
the Village Engineer, along with a copy of field and lab reports. The testing
firm is responsible for all field and lab tests, making, picking up, and
breaking of cylinders, and reports.
(Prior Code, Ch. 158, App. B) (Ord. 07-0541, passed 6-6-2007; Ord. 12-1014,
passed 11-7-2012)
APPENDIX C: VILLAGE OF ROMEOVILLE STANDARD DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4599.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4601.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4603.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4605.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4607.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4609.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4611.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4613.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4615.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4617.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4619.png]
(Prior Code, Ch. 158, App. C)
CHAPTER 157: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Title
   
157.002   Intent and purpose
   
157.003   Definitions
   
157.004   Interpretation
   
157.005   Scope
   
157.006   Separability
   
157.007   Zoning districts
   
157.008   Zoning maps
   
157.009   Annexation
General Regulations
   
157.020   Use and bulk
   
157.021   Sight triangle
   
157.022   Accessory structure table
   
157.023   Lot area and dimensions
   
157.024   Street access
   
157.025   Number of buildings per lot
   
157.026   Parking of vehicles
   
157.027   Accessory structures or use
   
157.028   Personal communication facility
   
157.029   Performance standards - general
   
157.030   Performance standards - noise
   
157.031   Performance standards - vibration
   
157.032   Performance standards - noxious, odorous and toxic matter
   
157.033   Performance standards - emissions
   
157.034   Performance standards - fuel-burning equipment
   
157.035   Special uses
   
157.036   Airports
   
157.037   Landscaping and tree preservation
   
157.038   Uses not specifically permitted
   
157.039   Public utility exemptions
   
157.040   Public utilities
   
157.041   Home occupations
   
157.042   Fences, walls, retaining walls and hedges
   
157.043   Floodplain regulations
   
157.044   Residential illumination standards
   
157.045   Solar and small wind energy devices
Zoning Districts
   
157.060   A-1 Agricultural District intent and purpose
   
157.061   Permitted uses
   
157.062   Special uses
   
157.063   Temporary uses
   
157.064   Accessory uses
   
157.065   Site and structure requirements
   
157.066   Special provisions
   
157.067   P-1 Public/Private and Land Conservation District intent and purpose
   
157.068   Permitted uses
   
157.069   Special uses
   
157.070   Temporary uses
   
157.071   Accessory uses
   
157.072   Site and structure requirements
   
157.073   Special provisions
   
157.074   Residential districts general requirements
   
157.075   E-R Estate Residential District (43,560 square feet)
   
157.076   R-1 Single-Family Residential (20,000 square feet)
   
157.077   R-2 Single-Family Residential (15,000 square feet)
   
157.078   R-3 Single-Family Residential (10,000 square feet)
   
157.079   R-4 Single-Family Residential (8,000 square feet)
   
157.080   R-5 Single-Family Residential (6,500 square feet)
   
157.081   R-6 Attached Residential (5-8 D.U./acre)
   
157.082   R-7 General Residential (9-12 D.U./acre)
   
157.083   R-5A Single-Family Residential (6,000 square feet)
Business/Commercial District
   
157.095   General requirements
   
157.096   B-1 Local Shopping District
   
157.097   B-2 Community Shopping District
   
157.098   B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping District
   
157.099   B-4 Automotive Service District
   
157.100   P-B Planned Business District
   
157.101   DD Downtown District
   
157.102   Industrial/manufacturing districts general requirements
   
157.103   M-R Light Manufacturing/Research Park District
   
157.104   M-1 Medium Manufacturing District
   
157.105   M-2 Heavy Manufacturing District
   
157.106   Airport districts general requirements
   
157.107   AD-1 Airport District
   
157.108   AD-2 Airport District
   
157.109   University District general requirements
Off-Street Parking
   
157.120   Off-street parking general requirements
   
157.121   Use of facilities
   
157.122   Joint use of facilities
   
157.123   Computation of parking spaces
   
157.124   Schedule of off-street parking requirements
   
157.125   Mixed land uses and other land uses
   
157.126   Parking for persons with disabilities
Loading, Unloading and Outdoor Storage
   
157.140   Loading, unloading and outdoor storage general requirements
   
157.141   Use of facilities
   
157.142   Joint use of facilities
   
157.143   Size, access and design of loading, unloading and outdoor storage
   
157.144   Schedule of off-street loading, unloading requirements
Signage
   
157.155   Signs purpose
   
157.156   Scope
   
157.157   Prohibited signs
   
157.158   General provisions
   
157.159   Signs exempted from this section
   
157.160   Classifications of signs
   
157.161   Permitted signs
   
157.162   Sign area bonuses
   
157.163   Special signs
   
157.164   Permits required
   
157.165   Violations
   
157.166   Administration and enforcement
   
157.167   Permit fees
Nonconforming, Buildings, Structures and Uses
   
157.180   Nonconforming, buildings, structures and uses intent and purpose
   
157.181   Existing uses
   
157.182   Discontinuance of land
   
157.183   Termination and removal
   
157.184   Repairs and alterations
   
157.185   Damage and destruction
   
157.186   Additions and enlargements
   
157.187   Exceptions
Planned Unit Development
   
157.200   General - PUD
   
157.201   Development standards
   
157.202   Building standards
   
157.203   Application procedures
   
157.204   General development plan
   
157.205   Final development plan (FDP)
   
157.206   Amendments to the planned unit development
   
157.207   Planned unit developments - residential
   
157.208   Planned unit developments - business/commercial
   
157.209   Planned unit developments - manufacturing/industrial
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.220   Administration and enforcement
   
157.221   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
157.222   Zoning variances
   
157.223   Zoning appeals
   
157.224   Planning and Zoning Commission duties
   
157.225   Zoning code amendments
   
157.226   Special uses
   
157.227   Annexation procedures
   
157.228   Application fees and other charges
   
157.229   Public hearings
 
   
157.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Figures
   
Appendix B:   Images
   
Appendix C:   Summary Table and Land Use Table
   
Appendix D:   Past Histories Table
Editor’s note:
   For references to ordinance histories for the zoning code prior to January
1, 2005, please see
Appendix D.
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 157.001 TITLE.
   This chapter, including the “Official Zoning Map” made a part hereof, shall
be known, cited and referred to as the “Romeoville Zoning Code.”
(Prior Code, § 159.001)
§ 157.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare of the people of the village;
   (B)   To divide the village into zones or districts restricting and
regulating therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of buildings, structures and land for residence, business,
manufacturing and other specified uses;
   (C)   To protect the character and the stability of the residential,
business and manufacturing areas within the village and to promote the orderly
and beneficial development of such areas;
   (D)   To provide adequate light, solar benefit, privacy and convenience of
access to property;
   (E)   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas, and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light,
solar benefit, air and to protect the public health;
   (F)   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing or other uses within those areas;
   (G)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform;
   (H)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
   (I)   To prevent additions to, or alteration or remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder;
   (J)   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off-street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles;
   (K)   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards,
in the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
   (L)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
   (M)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village;
   (N)   To provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district;
   (O)   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein;
   (P)   To lessen or avoid the hazard to persons and damage to property
resulting from the accumulation or runoff of storm or flood waters;
   (Q)   To facilitate and ensure the preservation of sites, areas and
structures of historical, architectural and aesthetic importance; and
   (R)   To prescribe penalties for the violation of, and methods for the
administration and enforcement of, the provisions of this chapter or any
amendment thereto.
(Prior Code, § 159.002)
§ 157.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. To cease or discontinue use of a structure or activity, but
excluding temporary or short-term interruptions to a use, structure or activity
during periods of remodeling, maintaining or otherwise improving or rearranging
a facility, or during normal periods of vacation or seasonal closure.
   ABUTTING. Having a common border with, or being separated from, such a
common border by a right-of-way, alley or easement.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. A structure, building or use which is
subordinate to and located on the same lot on which the principal building or
use is located and which is reasonably necessary and incidental to conduct of
the primary use of such principal building or use, when permitted by the
specific zoning district regulations.
   ACREAGE. Any tract or parcel of land having an area of one acre or more
(43,560 square feet), which has not been subdivided by metes and bounds or
platted.
   ADULT DAY CARE. The provider of supplemental care and supervision:
      (1)   For nonrelated adults;
      (2)   On a regular basis;
      (3)   For less than 24 hours a day; and
      (4)   Under license by the State Department of Child and Family Services.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY.
      (1)   A striptease club or pornographic movie theater whose business is
the commercial sale, dissemination or distribution of sexually explicit
material, shows or other exhibitions; or
      (2)   An adult bookstore or adult video store in which 25% or more of its
stock-in-trade, books, magazines and films for sale, exhibition or viewing on-
premises are sexually explicit material.
   AGRICULTURAL. (See also FARM.) The use of land for agricultural purposes,
including farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary
accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce; provided, however,
that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of
normal AGRICULTURAL activities.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land or water designed and set aside for the landing
and take-off of aircraft, including all necessary facilities for the housing
and maintenance of aircraft.
   AIR RIGHTS. The ownership or control of all land, property and that area of
space at and above a horizontal plane over the ground surface of land used for
railroad or expressway purposes. The horizontal plane shall be at a height that
is reasonably necessary or legally required for the full and free use of the
ground surface.
   ALLEY. A public or private way permanently reserved as a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction or
occupancy of an existing structure.
   ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL. Any change in the supporting members of a building
or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders; provided,
however, that the application of any exterior siding to an existing building
for the purpose of beautifying and modernizing shall not be considered a
structural alteration.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE. A building or part of a building in which four or more
pinball machines, video games or other similar player-operated amusement
devices are maintained. (See also Ord. 850, as amended).
   ANTENNA. (See also SATELLITE DISH and TOWER.) Any system of wires, poles,
rods, reflecting discs or similar devices used for the transmission or
reception of electromagnetic waves external to or attached to the exterior of
any building.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit.
Complete kitchen and bathroom facilities, permanently installed, must always be
included for each APARTMENT.
   ARBOR. An accessory structure consisting of columns that support a roofing
grid of beams and rafters. This roofing grid is open to the elements and may
have decorative vines growing on it.
   ARTICULATED FACADE. A facade in which different materials and recesses or
projections are used to break up large expanses of walls. (See Figure 28.)
   AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY. A building or portion thereof containing facilities for
washing more than two motor vehicles, using production line methods.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn
or damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening; or repair and painting of vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and motor
service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline, stored in above or
underground tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil or grease, for the operation of
automobiles, are offered for sale directly to the public on the premises, and
including minor accessories and the services of automobiles; but not including
major automobile repairs, and including washing of automobiles, where
production line methods are not used. When the dispensing, sale or offering for
sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the
premises shall be classified as a public garage. AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS
shall not include sale or storage of automobiles or trailers (new or used).
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION/MINI-MART. A place where gasoline, stored in
above or underground tanks, kerosene and lubricating oil, for the operation of
automobiles, are offered for sale directly to the public on the premises, and
including minor accessories and the services of automobiles; but not including
major automobile repairs, and including washing of automobiles, where
production line methods are used. In addition, when the dispensing, sale or
offering for sale of merchandise (i.e., breads, pop, candy, ice cream,
souvenirs), and when the motor fuels or oil is the primary intent for the
facility. AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS/MINIMARTS shall not include the sale,
storage or repair (major or minor) of automobiles or trailers (new or used)
anywhere on the premises.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. (See also JUNKYARD.) The dismantling or wrecking
of motor vehicles or trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled or
wrecked vehicles or their parts. The presence on any lot or parcel of land of
two or more motor vehicles, which for a period exceeding 30 days, not in
running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and which are not
being restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for the
wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof, and including the
commercial salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise, shall
constitute evidence of an AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD.
   AWNING. A roof-like cover, which projects from the wall of a building or
overhangs the public way.
   BAR and/or COCKTAIL LOUNGE. (See also NIGHTCLUB.) Any premises wherein
alcoholic beverages are sold at retail for consumption on the premises and
minors are excluded therefrom by law. It shall not mean a premises wherein such
beverages are sold in conjunction with the sale of food for consumption on the
premises and the sale of said beverages comprises less than 25% of the gross
receipts.
   BALCONET. A small window balcony or guard rail.
   BALCONY. A platform that projects from the wall of a building and is
surrounded by a railing.
   BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than one-half of
its height is above the established curb level or above the average level of
the adjoining ground where the curb level has not been established, a BASEMENT
shall be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement.
   BAY WINDOW. A projecting window.
   BEACON. Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same zoning lot as the light source;
also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   BENCHMARK. A mark made on some stationary object of previously determined
position and elevation, and used as a reference point in tidal observations and
surveys.
   BEDROOM. Includes any room used principally for sleeping purposes, an all-
purpose room, a study or a den; provided that no room having less than 100
square feet of floor area shall be considered a BEDROOM.
   BERM. Any change in grade level with undulating contours which incorporates
landscaping materials for aesthetic purposes and buffers between land uses.
   BILLBOARD. A structure for the display of advertisements in a public place
or alongside highways. This definition does not include any bulletin boards
used to announce church services, or to display court or other public office
notices, or signs offering the sale or lease of the premises on which the sign
is located.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way or other lines of demarcation.
A BLOCK may be located in part beyond the corporate limits of the village.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Village Board for the Village of Romeoville,
Illinois.
   BOARDING HOUSE. (See also ROOMING HOUSE.) A building other than a motel or
restaurant where meals are provided for compensation to four or more persons,
but not more than 12, who are not members of the keeper’s family and where food
is placed upon the table family style, without service or ordering of
individual portions from a menu.
   BOW WINDOW. A curved bay window.
   BRICK MATERIAL. Brick material used for masonry construction shall be hard
fired (kiln fired) clay, calcium silicate (sand/lime), shale or slate material
which meets the latest version of ASTM Standard C216, Standard Specification
for Facing Brick (Solid Masonry Unit Made of Clay or Shale) and shall be severe
weather (SW) grade, and Type FBA or FBS or better. No unfired or underfired
brick shall be permitted. No form or type of brick sheeting or brick veneer
shall be allowed under this chapter under any circumstances whatsoever.
   BRICK PAVER. Contiguous masonry blocks used for patios, walkways or
driveways. These structures are permanent in nature. They require a permit and
count towards lot coverage.
   BUFFER AREA. (See also BERM, FENCE and SCREENING.) A landscaped area
intended to separate and partially obstruct the view of two adjacent land uses
or properties from one another. (See Figure 2.) A strip of land, identified on
a site plan or by an ordinance or resolution, established to protect one type
of land use from another land use that is incompatible. Normally, the area is
landscaped and kept in open space use.
   BUILDABLE AREA. (See also BUILDING AREA.) The space remaining on a building
lot after the minimum yard requirements of this chapter have been complied
with.
   BUILDING. Any covered structure, separated on all sides from the adjacent
open spaces, or from other buildings or other structures, by a permanent roof
and by exterior walls or part walls, pierced only by windows and normal
entrance or exit doors, built for the support, shelter or enclosure of person
(s), animal(s) or movable property of any kind, and which is affixed
permanently to the ground with a footing and foundation. See also STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING AREA. The space remaining on a building lot after the minimum yard
requirements of this chapter have been complied with. (See Figure 3.)
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal
building(s) and accessory structures.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or
its equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the
building to the highest point of the roof in the case of a flat roof; to the
deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and the
ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof; provided that where buildings are set
back from the street line, the height of the building may be measured from the
average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building. (See
Figure 4.)
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector/code enforcement officer of the
village or their duly-authorized representative.
   BUILDING LINE. A line or lines including the building setback line on the
horizontal surface of a lot, parallel to the front, side and rear lot lines and
located at a distance prescribed by the yard regulations of this chapter beyond
which no portion of a building may be extended except as otherwise provided for
by this chapter. (See Figure 3.)
   BUILDING MARKER. (See also SIGN, IDENTIFICATION.) Any sign indicating the
name of a building and date and incidental information about its construction,
which sign is cut into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent
material.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. See STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL; see Figure 1.
   BUILDING, TEMPORARY. See STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land which
denotes the area between that line and the adjacent street right-of-way line,
where building and other obstructions are prohibited except those encroachments
that are permitted by this chapter. (See Figures 3 and 10.)
   BULK. The term used to describe the size and mutual relationships of
buildings and other structures, as to size, height, coverage, shape, location
of exterior walls in relation to lot lines, to the center lines of the streets,
to other walls of the same buildings and to other buildings or structures, and
to all open spaces relating to the buildings or structure.
   BUS LOT. Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger
buses or motor coaches.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials, or
where services are offered for compensation.
   CANOPY. (See also MARQUEE.) A roof-like structure of a permanent nature
which projects from the wall of a building or overhangs the public way and is
designed and intended to protect pedestrians from adverse weather conditions.
   CARPORT. A permanent structure with a roof and with two or more sides open,
used to shelter an automobile.
   CARWASH. A building or area that provides facilities for washing and
cleaning of motor vehicles, which may use production line methods with a
conveyor, blower or other mechanical devices, and which may employ some hand
labor.
   CARRY-OUT RESTAURANT. See RESTAURANT, FAST-FOOD.
   CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below the curb level
or below the highest level of the adjoining ground. A CELLAR shall not be
counted as a story for the purposes of height measurement.
   CHILD DAY CARE. The provider of supplemental parental care and supervision:
for a non-related child or children, on a regular basis, for less than 24 hours
a day, and under license by the State Department of Child and Family Services.
As used in this chapter, the term is not intended to include babysitting
services of a casual, nonrecurring nature or in the child’s own home. Likewise,
the term is not intended to include cooperative, reciprocative child care by a
group of parents in their respective residences.
   CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY. A building or structure wherein an agency, person
or persons regularly provides care for a group of children for periods of less
than 24 hours a day. CHILD DAY CARE FACILITIES include family day care homes,
child mini-day care centers and child day care centers. They do not include
pre-schools or nursery schools. The following is a specific list of definitions
for DAY CARE.
      (1)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A licensed family abode of a person or person
who regularly provides direct care during part of the 24-hour day to six or
fewer children, including the licensee’s own and foster children under 12 years
of age on the premises. A FAMILY DAY CARE HOME may provide for care for up to
eight children if it meets the requirements outlined by D.C.F.S. for FAMILY DAY
CARE HOMES.
      (2)   CHILD MINI-DAY CARE CENTER. A licensed, large family day care home
or an agency that regularly provides for the care of seven to 12 children,
including the licensee’s own preschool- and elementary-school-age children, in
premises other than the family dwelling of the licensee/care provider and other
than an approved structure on the same site occupied by said dwelling.
      (3)   EXTENDED DAY CARE HOME. A licensed large family day care home or an
agency that regularly provides for the care of seven to 12 children, including
the licensees’ own preschool- and elementary-school-age children, in the family
residence of the licensee/care provider or in an approved structure on the same
building site occupied by said residence.
      (4)   CHILD DAY CARE CENTER. A licensed agency that provides for the care
of 13 or more children.
   CHURCH or PLACE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP. An institution that people regularly
attend to participate in or hold religious services, meetings and other
activities. The term CHURCH shall not carry a secular connotation and shall
include buildings in which the religious services of any denomination are held.
   CLEAR-CUTTING. The indiscriminate removal of trees, shrubs or undergrowth
with the intention of preparing real property for non-agricultural development
purposes. This definition shall not include the selective removal of non-native
tree and shrub species when the soil is left relatively undisturbed, removal of
dead trees or normal mowing operations.
   CLINIC or MEDICAL HEALTH CENTER. An establishment where patients are
admitted for special study and treatment by two or more licensed physicians or
dentists and their professional associates, practicing medicine together. Also,
it specifically shall be a building designed and used for the diagnosis and
treatment of those patients which does not include overnight care facilities.
   CLUB. An organization of persons for special purposes or for the promoting
of sports, arts, literature, politics or the like but not operated for-profit,
excluding churches, synagogues or other houses of worship. Also, buildings or
facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association or persons for a
social, educational or recreational purpose; but not primarily for profit or to
render a service that is customarily carried on as a business.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. (See Figure 5.) A development design technique that
concentrates buildings in specific areas on a site to allow the remaining land
to be used for recreation, common open space and preservation of
environmentally sensitive areas.
   COCKTAIL LOUNGE. See BAR and NIGHTCLUB.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
product, service or other commercial activity.
   COMMERCIAL USE. An occupation, employment or enterprise that is carried on
for-profit by the owner, lessee or licensee.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A place, structure, area or other facility used for the
providing religious, fraternal, social and/or recreational programs generally
open to the public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments
of the community.
   CONDITIONAL USE. (See also SPECIAL USE.) A use that would not be appropriate
generally or without restrictions throughout the zoning district but which, if
controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would
not be detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare.
   CONDOMINIUM. An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest
in common with other purchasers in a portion of a parcel of real property,
together with a separate interest in space in a residential building, such as
an apartment. A CONDOMINIUM may include, in addition, a separate interest in
other portion of such real property.
   CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure which complies
with all the regulations of this chapter or of any amendment thereto governing
bulk of the district in which the building or structure is located; and is
designed or intended for a permitted or special use as allowed in the district
in which it is located.
   CONGREGATE HOUSING. (See also HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY.) A residential
facility for four or more elderly person (65 or older) within which are
provided living and sleeping facilities, meal preparation, laundry services and
room cleaning. Such facilities may also provide other services, such as
transportation for routine social and medical appointments, and counseling.
   CONSERVATION AREA. Environmentally sensitive and valuable lands protected
from any activity that would significantly alter their ecological integrity,
balance or character, except in cases of overriding public interest.
CONSERVATION AREAS include freshwater marshes, shallow grassy ponds, streams,
rivers, creeks, defined wetlands and any other area of significant biological
productivity or uniqueness.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT. An easement granting a right or interest in real
property that is appropriate to retaining land or water areas predominately in
their natural, scenic, open or wooded condition; retaining such areas as
suitable habitat for fish, plants or wildlife; or maintaining existing land
uses.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment offering for sale prepackaged
food products, household items and other goods commonly associated with the
same and having a gross floor area of less than 5,000 square feet.
   COURT. An open unoccupied space other than a yard on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings, and which is bounded on two or more sides by
the building or buildings.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street, one end of which is closed and consists of a
circular turn around.
   CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of the building
measured at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one
street, the CURB LEVEL shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the
center of the front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been
established, the mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building
shall be considered the CURB LEVEL.
   DAY CARE CENTER/FACILITY. See CHILD DAY CARE.
   DECIBEL. A unit of measurement for the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters, calibrated in decibels, are employed to measure the intensity of
sound waves.
   DECK. A level, unenclosed platform serving as a floor and located above the
finished grade, and usually directly adjoining or attached to a building.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units permitted per acre (43,560 square feet
equals one acre).
   DENSITY, GROSS. A ratio of the total number of dwelling units on a site,
divided by the total acreage of the site, to include streets, schools, parks
and the like, expressed as dwelling units per acre (du/ac).
   DENSITY, NET. A ratio of the total number of dwelling units on a site,
divided by the number of acres used exclusively for a residential type acreage,
not to include schools, parks, streets and the like, expressed as dwelling
units per acre (du/ac).
   DEVELOPMENT. The carrying on of any construction or public improvements or
the making of any substantial changes in the existing appearance of any
property.
   DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED PERSON(S). A person suffering from a
developmentally disabling disease, including, but not limited to, mental
retardation, epilepsy, autism, cerebral palsy or dyslexia.
   DISPLACEMENT OF EARTH (EARTHQUAKE). The amplitude or intensity of an earth
borne vibration measured in inches. The displacement or amplitude is one-half
the total earth movement.
   DISTRICT. (See also ZONE.) A portion of the village, exclusive of streets,
alleys and other public ways, within which certain uses of land, premises and
buildings are permitted and within which certain yards, floor area ratios,
densities, open spaces are required and certain height limitations are
established for development.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. See HOUSEHOLD PET.
   DORMITORY. A building used as group living quarters for a student body,
religious order or other group as an associated use to a college, university,
boarding school, orphanage, convent, monastery, farm labor camp or other
similar use. DORMITORIES do not include kitchen facilities, except a group
kitchen facility to serve all residents. Specifically designed for the purpose
of providing living accommodations for individuals associated with the
particular institution.
   DRIVE-IN FACILITY. An establishment that, by design of physical facilities
or by service or packaging procedures, encourages or permits customers to
receive a service or obtain a product that may be used or consumed in a motor
vehicle on the premises or to be entertained while remaining in an automobile.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. See RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN and RESTAURANT, FAST-FOOD.
   DWELL TIME. The time that a single message on a dynamic display is held
static or constant, without any change in the message or image displayed.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, but not including a house trailer
or mobile home, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy,
including one-family, two-family and multiple-family dwelling units, but not
including hotels, motels, boarding or lodging houses. The following is a list
of specific definitions for DWELLING UNITS.
      (1)   ATTACHED. A dwelling joined to two or more dwellings by party
walls, or vertical cavity walls, and aboveground physically unifying horizontal
structural elements.
      (2)   DETACHED. One dwelling, which is surrounded on all sides by open
space, on an individually platted lot.
      (3)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, designed or altered
for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other and
containing three or more dwelling units; specifically, a detached residential
building containing three or more dwelling units, including what is commonly
known as an apartment building, but not including group, row or townhouses.
      (4)   ONE-FAMILY. A single dwelling designed exclusively for use and
occupancy by one family.
      (5)   SEMI-DETACHED. A dwelling joined to one other dwelling by party
wall, or vertical cavity wall, with aboveground physically unifying horizontal
structural elements.
      (6)   TWO-FAMILY. A building designed or altered to provide dwelling
units for occupancy by two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential structure which are
arranged, designed, used or intended for use by one family, and which include
complete kitchen facilities permanently installed.
   DYNAMIC DISPLAY. Any element of a sign or sign structure capable of
displaying words, symbols, figures, images or messages that can be
electronically or mechanically changed by remote or automatic means. This also
includes any display that incorporates rotating panels, LED lights manipulated
through digital input, “digital ink” or any other method or technology that
allows a sign to present a series of images, messages or displays. DYNAMIC
DISPLAY signs are also called electronic message board signs, LED signs or LCD
signs.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the owner for the
use by a person(s), government agency or public utility company to use for a
specific purpose (i.e., telephone, cable TV, electric, gas and the like).
   EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit consisting of a principal room, exclusive
of bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets or dining alcove directly off the
principal room.
   ELDERLY HOUSING. See HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY.
   EMERGENCY SHELTER/MISSION. A non-profit, charitable or religious
organization providing boarding and/or lodging and ancillary services on its
premises to primarily indigent, homeless or transient person(s).
   ERECT. The act of placing or affixing a component of a structure upon the
ground or upon another such component.
   ESTABLISHMENT, BUSINESS.
      (1)   A separate place of business having the following three
characteristics.
         (a)   The ownership and management of all operations conducted within
the establishment is separate and distinct from the ownership and management of
operations conducted within other establishments on the same or adjacent zoning
lot(s).
         (b)   Direct public access to the business establishment is separate
and distinct from direct access to any other business establishment.
         (c)   There is no direct public access from within the establishment
to any other such establishment.
      (2)   When adjacent places of business lack any one of the aforesaid
characteristics with respect to one another, they shall then be considered as a
single BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT for the purpose of this chapter.
   EQUIVALENT OPACITY. The shade on the Ringelmann Chart that most closely
corresponds to the density of smoke, other than black or gray.
   EVENT SPACE. An establishment of not less than 1,750 feet in area nor more
than 3,500 feet in area containing space that is held out or made available to
members of the public for the hosting or conduct of pre-arranged events or
gatherings that are not open to the general public, including, but not limited
to, receptions, fundraisers, parties, weddings, funerals, banquets, meals,
ceremonial observances, recreational functions or other assemblages. Attendance
at any event or gathering within an EVENT SPACE may be limited to those invited
by the organizer of the event or gathering, but in no event shall attendance at
any such event or gathering be conditioned upon the payment of any sum of money
or other thing of value to the organizer of the event or gathering, or to the
owner or occupant of the EVENT SPACE, without regard to the stated purpose or
lack thereof of such payment. EVENT SPACES shall only be permitted to be used
for the foregoing purposes from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. during any given day.
EVENT SPACES shall only be permitted as accessory uses on lots where a
principal use has been lawfully established that includes food service
facilities licensed by the county which regularly provide for the preparation
of food and beverages to the general public during pre-established and
scheduled times. No alcoholic beverages shall be served or sold for consumption
on the premises of any event space unless the owner/operator of the principal
use on the lot in question is the holder of a valid A, F, G, M or P liquor
license issued pursuant to Chapter 112; provided, however, that no such license
holder shall simultaneously be the holder of any license endorsement permitting
the operation of any video gaming terminals. EVENT SPACE occupancy shall be
subject to such limits as established from time to time by the Village Fire
Department.
   FACADE. The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view.
   FACADE, PRIMARY. The exterior wall which is the architectural front.
   FALLOUT SHELTER. An accessory building and use which incorporates the
fundamentals for fallout protection (shielding mass, ventilation and space to
live) and which is constructed of such materials, in such a manner, as to
afford to the occupant’s substantial protection from radioactive fallout.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals, tied by blood, marriage and/or law,
living together as a single housekeeping unit and doing their cooking on the
premises, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding, rooming house or
hotel/motel, but not including clubs, sororities, fraternities or other similar
organizations.
   FAMILY CARE HOME FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED. A dwelling unit for
developmentally disabled person(s), plus required staff, in which the program’s
size and content are structured to meet the individual social, habitable and
respite needs of the person(s) residing therein, in a residential community
setting. Prior to admitting residents, such a dwelling shall comply with the
applicable licensing standards with the appropriate federal, state, county or
local agencies and may, in addition, house such staff person(s) as may be
required to meet the standards of the licensing agencies.
   FARM or FARMLAND. (See also AGRICULTURE.) A parcel of land of not less than
35 acres, in one ownership, that is used primarily for the commercial, soil-
dependent cultivation of agricultural crop production and/or for the raising of
livestock. The term ONE OWNERSHIP shall include an individual, corporation,
business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association or two or more persons
having a joint or common interest in the land.
   FARM STAND. See ROADSIDE STAND.
   FARMERS MARKET. An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or
from temporary stands where groups of individual sellers offer for sale to the
public such items as fresh produce, seasonal fruits, fresh flowers, arts and
crafts items and food and beverages; but not to include second hand or resale
goods.
   FAST FOOD RESTAURANT. See RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN and RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD.
   FEEDLOT. Any tract of land or structure, pen or corral, wherein cattle,
horses, sheep, goats and swine (pigs) are maintained in close quarters for the
purpose of fattening such livestock for final shipment to market.
   FENCE. A human-made structure, including gates, which creates a barrier and
is used as a boundary definition for the means of protection or confinement.
The following describes specific characteristics as it relates to FENCES.
      (1)   OPEN. A fence which has over its entirety at least 50% of the
surface area in open space as viewed at right angles from the fence, except
that the required open space in louver-type fences may be viewed from any
angle.
      (2)   SOLID. A fence which conceals from view, from adjoining properties,
streets or alleys, activities conducted behind it.
   FLAG. Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns
or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision or other
entity.
   FLEA MARKET. An occasional or periodic sales activity held within a
building, structure or open area where groups of individual sellers offer
goods, new and used, for sale to the public, not to include private garage
sales.
   FLEX SPACE. A building shall be deemed devoted to FLEX SPACE use if 50% or
more of its gross leasable area is devoted to office use and the remaining
portion of such building is devoted to light industrial, warehouse,
distribution, light assembly or retail use. Such a building must have
fenestration, docking location, screening and landscaping which are consistent
with the commercial and retail character of the B-3 District. Office space may
be decreased to 20% provided that such reduction has been authorized by an
approved special use permit.
   FLOOD-CREST ELEVATION. The elevation of the highest flood level that has
been or may be subsequently designated by the Village Engineer. The FLOOD-CREST
ELEVATION designated by the Village Consultant or the Village Engineer shall be
based upon a stormwater drainage map showing FLOOD-CREST ELEVATIONS of
appropriate locations as approved by the Village Board.
   FLOODPLAIN. (See also FLOODPLAIN AREA.) Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source. (Federal Emergency Management Agency, see
Figure 6.)
   FLOODPLAIN AREA. The continuous area adjacent to a stream or stream bed, or
any stormwater retention area and its tributaries, whose elevation is equal to
or lower than the flood-crest elevation including also land having an elevation
higher than flood-crest elevation but less than ten acres in area and
surrounded by land in a FLOODPLAIN AREA or an area of such elevations secured
by land fill projection into a FLOODPLAIN AREA. Any point shall be deemed to be
within the FLOODPLAIN AREA if it falls below the elevation of a high-water
mark, as the elevation of the mark is projected in horizontal directions
perpendicular to the flow of the stream and thence to intersections at an equal
elevation with the land on either side of the stream. Any point between the
afore described projections of any two highwater marks shall be deemed within
the FLOODPLAIN AREA if it is at an elevation equal to or lower than similar
projections of the interpolated flood-crest elevation. The interpolated flood-
crest elevation is the calculated elevation of the flood-crest at the center
line of the stream between two known flood-crests of the nearest upstream and
downstream high-water marks; and the difference in elevation between the flood-
crest at this location and at either of the high-water mark projections is
directly proportional to the difference in stream center line distance between
the two high-water mark projections. (See Figure 6.)
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the 100-year flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot at any
point. (See Figure 6.)
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. All that land in a floodplain not lying within a delineated
floodway. Land within a FLOODWAY FRINGE is subject to inundation by relatively
low velocity flows and shallow water depths. (See Figure 6.)
   FLOOR AREA. (For determining floor area ratio (FAR).)
      (1)   The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors,
including also the basement floor of a building, measured from the exterior
faces of the exterior walls or from the center lines of walls separating two
buildings. The FLOOR AREA shall also include the horizontal areas on each floor
devoted to the following (see Figure 7):
         (a)   Elevator shafts and stairwells;
         (b)   Mechanical equipment, except if located on the roof, when either
open or enclosed, such as bulkheads, water tanks and cooling towers;
         (c)   Habitable attic space as permitted by the building code of the
village;
         (d)   Interior balconies and mezzanines;
         (e)   Enclosed porches; and
         (f)   Accessory uses.
      (2)   The FLOOR AREA of structures used for bulk storage of materials,
such as grain elevators and petroleum tanks, shall also be included in the
FLOOR AREA and the FLOOR AREA shall be determined on the basis of the height of
the structures with one floor for each ten feet of structure height and if the
structure measures less than ten feet, but not less than five feet over the
floor height intervals, it shall be construed to have an additional floor. The
horizontal area in each floor of a building devoted to off-street parking and
off-street loading facilities and the horizontal area of a cellar floor shall
not be included in the floor area. FLOOR AREA, when prescribed as the basis of
measurement for off-street parking spaces and off-street loading spaces for any
use, shall be the sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of the
building, excluding areas used for accessory off-street parking facilities and
the horizontal areas to the basement and cellar floors that are devoted
exclusively to uses accessory to the operation of the entire building. All
horizontal dimensions shall be taken from the exterior of the walls.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained by dividing the floor area
within a building or buildings on a lot by the area of the lot. The FLOOR AREA
RATIO as designated for each district when multiplied by the lot area in square
feet shall determine the maximum permissible floor area for the building or
buildings on the lot. (See Figure 7.)
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE. Any floor area within outside walls of a building
exclusive of areas in cellars, basements, unfinished attics, garages, open
porches and accessory buildings, but including any area “roughed in” but not
completed which is designed and intended for human occupancy.
   FOOD TRUCK. A licensed, motorized vehicle modified to include facilities for
the cooking, processing and preparation of food and beverages, when temporarily
parked on property other than a public street, road or right-of-way, and from
which food items or beverages are then sold to the general public.
   FOOD TRUCK OPERATOR. The owner or operator of a food truck to be licensed
under Chapter 122, and who shall be the party responsible for the compliance of
the operations of the food truck with the requirements of this chapter, the
village code and other applicable laws and regulations.
   FOOT-CANDLE. A measure of illumination, the amount of light falling onto a
surface. One lumen of light, shining evenly across one square foot of surface,
illuminates that surface to one FOOT-CANDLE.
   FOOT-LAMBERT. A unit of brightness, usually of a reflecting surface. A
diffusion surface of uniform brightness reflecting or emitting the equivalent
of the light from one candle at one foot distance over one square foot of
brightness of a FOOT-LAMBERT.
   FREQUENCY. The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave, measuring
the pitch of the resulting sound.
   FRONT YARD. See YARD; see Figure 3.
   FRONTAGE. The front or frontage is that side of a lot abutting on a street
or way and ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be
considered as the ordinary side of a corner lot (unless the main entrance of
the house faces the side of a corner lot, at the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator).
   FUEL BULK STATION. A place where crude petroleum, gasoline, naphtha,
benzene, benzol, kerosene or other flammable liquid which has a flash point at
or below 200°F (closed cup tester) that is stored for wholesale purposes, where
the aggregate capacity of all regardless of whether the fuel is stored above
the ground, underground or in mobile tank cars or trucks.
   FUNERAL HOME.
      (1)   A building or part thereof used for human funeral services.
      (2)   Such a building may contain space and facilities for:
         (a)   Embalming and the performance of other services used in
preparation of the dead for burial;
         (b)   The performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures;
         (c)   The storage of caskets, funeral urns and other related funeral
supplies; and
         (d)   The storage of funeral vehicles, but shall not include
facilities for cremation.
      (3)   Where a FUNERAL HOME is permitted, a funeral chapel shall also be
permitted.
   GARAGE. The following definitions outline a particular type of use that
might be found in a GARAGE.
      (1)   BUS. Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of
three or more passenger motor buses, or motor coaches used in public
transportation, excluding school buses.
      (2)   PRIVATE. An accessory building or any accessory portion of the
principal building, which is a permanent structure, which has been designed,
arranged, used or intended to be used for the storage of private passenger
vehicles, vans of not more than nine passenger capacity or pick-up trucks with
state “B” plates, of not more than one ton capacity used by the family residing
upon the premises, and in which no business, service or industry connected,
directly or indirectly, with automotive vehicles is carried on. Such a GARAGE
shall not be used for more than one commercial vehicle, where the capacity of
that vehicle shall not exceed one and one-half tons.
      (3)   PUBLIC. A building designed and used for the storage of automotive
vehicles operated as a business enterprise with a service charge or fee being
paid to the owner or operator for the parking or storage of privately-owned
vehicles.
      (4)   REPAIR. (See also SERVICE STATION.) A building designed and used
for the storage, care, repair or refinishing of motor vehicles, including both
minor and major mechanical overhauling, painting and body work.
   GAS STATION. See SERVICE STATION.
   GAZEBO. An accessory structure with a roof that is open on all sides. It may
have screening but is otherwise open to the elements.
   GRADE. The established benchmark/grade of the subdivision. When no such
benchmark/grade has been established, the GRADE shall be the elevation of the
sidewalk at the property line. When no sidewalk(s) exist, the GRADE shall be
the average elevation of the street adjacent to the property line except, in
cases of unusual topographic conditions, as determined by the Building
Inspector or Zoning Administrator, GRADE shall be the average elevation of the
finished surface of the ground adjoining the exterior walls of a building at
the base of a structure.
   GRAFFITI. See §
132.078.
   GREENBELT. See BUFFER AREA and CONSERVATION AREA.
   GROSS LEASABLE AREA. The total floor area designed for tenant occupancy and
exclusive use, including basements, mezzanines and upper floors, if any,
expressed in square feet and measured from the center line of joint partitions
and from outside wall faces.
   GROUND COVERAGE. See LOT COVERAGE.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The lot area covered by a principal building, measured at
the highest ground grade, adjacent to the building, from the exterior faces of
the exterior walls, but excluding open porches, terraces, garages and carports.
   GROUP CARE HOME FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED. (See also FAMILY.)
      (1)   A dwelling for six to 15 developmentally disabled person(s) in
which the program’s size and content are structured to meet the individual
social, habitable and respite needs of the person(s) residing therein, in a
residential community setting. Prior to admitting residents, such a dwelling
shall comply with the applicable licensing standards of appropriate federal,
state, county or local agencies and may, in addition, house such staff person
(s) as may be required to meet the standards of the licensing agencies. Two
persons, per bedroom, maximum allowable, and these homes shall be required to
have an annual inspection of said premises under the rules and regulations that
apply to rental property.
      (2)   As used herein, the term DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED shall mean
having:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of such person’
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
      (3)   However, DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED shall not include current illegal
use of or addiction to a controlled substance, nor shall it include any person
whose residency in the home would constitute a direct threat to the health and
safety of other individuals.
      (4)   The term GROUP CARE HOME FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED shall not
include alcoholism or drug treatment center, work release facilities for
convicts or ex-convicts or other housing facilities serving as an alternative
to incarceration.
   GUEST, PERMANENT. A person who occupies or has the right to occupy a lodging
house, rooming house, boarding house, hotel or motel accommodation as their
domicile and place of permanent residence.
   HALFWAY HOUSE. A licensed home for inmates on release from more restrictive
custodial confinement or initially placed in lieu of such more restrictive
custodial confinement, wherein supervision, rehabilitation and counseling are
provided to mainstream residents back into society, enabling them to live
independently. Such placement is pursuant to the authority of the State
Department of Corrections.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Any substances or materials that, by reason of their
toxic, caustic, corrosive, abrasive or otherwise injurious properties, may be
detrimental or deleterious to the health of any person(s) handling or otherwise
coming into direct contact with such material or substance.
   HEALTH/RECREATION FACILITY. An indoor/outdoor facility including uses, such
as game courts, exercise equipment, locker rooms, Jacuzzi and/or sauna and pro
shop.
   HEALTH CLUB. Means, but not limited to, gymnasiums (except public), private
clubs (athletic, health, or recreational), reducing salons and weight control
establishments.
   HEIGHT. See BUILDING HEIGHT; see Figure 4.
   HELIPORT. The Federal Aviation Administration distinguishes between types of
heliports in its definitions.
      (1)   HELIPORT-LIMITED USE. Any landing area used for the landing and
taking off of helicopters, including all necessary passenger and cargo
facilities, fueling and emergency service facilities.
      (2)   HELIPORT-UNLIMITED USE. Any landing area used by helicopters which,
in addition, includes all necessary passenger and cargo facilities, maintenance
and overhaul, fueling, service, storage, tie-down areas, hangars and other
necessary buildings and open spaces.
   HELISTOP-LIMITED USE. Any landing area used for the taking off or landing of
private helicopters for the purpose of picking up and discharging of passengers
or cargo. This facility is not open to use by any helicopter without prior
permission having been obtained. Limited in location to that of industrial/
manufacturing and emergency service uses.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A geographically defined area (by village ordinance)
possessing a significant concentration or continuity of landmarks, improvements
or landscape features united by historic events occurred or having special
public value because of notable architectural or other features relating to the
cultural or artistic heritage of the community, of such significance as to
warrant conservation and preservation.
   HOME OCCUPATION. In all residential districts, any customary HOME OCCUPATION
shall be permitted; provided that the following provisions are complied with:
      (1)   It is conducted entirely within the dwelling by a member of the
family residing in the dwelling and when the home occupation is incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purpose;
      (2)   It is not conducted from a detached or attached accessory building
or requires any internal or external alteration, or involve construction
features or use of equipment not customary in a dwelling, and the entrance to
the space devoted to the occupation shall be from within the dwelling and not
more than 25% of the floor area of the story in which the home occupation is
located. This includes the cellar of the dwelling if it is devoted to the HOME
OCCUPATION;
      (3)   There is no display or activity that will indicate from the
exterior of the dwelling that it is being used in whole or in part for any use
other than a dwelling, except one nameplate, no more than one square foot in
area which contains only the name of the occupant of the dwelling and the home
occupation conducted therein and is attached to the dwelling and not
illuminated shall be permitted;
      (4)   All provisions of §
157.027 are complied with;
      (5)   No mechanical equipment is used, except such as is customarily used
for purely domestic or household purposes;
      (6)   No stock in trade is kept or sold, including also such as are made
on the premises, or services rendered on the premises that require receipt or
delivery of merchandise, goods or equipment by other than United States Letter
Carrier Mail Service, Federal Express Vans, United Parcel Service, the like or
the passenger automobile of the person conducting the HOME OCCUPATION; and
      (7)   A HOME OCCUPATION conducted by a professional person shall be only
for consultation, instruction or performance of religious rites, but not for
the general practice of the profession.
   HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATION. A private, non-profit corporation of homeowners
formed for the purposes of owning, operating and maintaining various common
properties.
   HOSPITAL or SANITARIUM. An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance
and operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care, for not less
than 24 hours in any week, of three or more non-related individuals suffering
from illness, disease, injury, deformity or other abnormal physical conditions.
The term HOSPITAL, as used in this chapter, does not apply to institutions
operating solely for the treatment of insane person(s), drug addicts, liquor
addicts or other types of cases necessitating restraint of patients, and the
term HOSPITAL shall not be used for convalescent, nursing, shelter or boarding
homes.
   HOTEL. An establishment that provides lodging and other services for
travelers and other paying guests. Does not include rooming house, emergency
shelter/mission or boarding house.
   HOTEL, FULL-SERVICE. A hotel (see HOTEL) which offers dining and/or lounge
area, conference room, laundry service, as well as access to meeting rooms,
computers and fax services. A FULL-SERVICE HOTEL shall be exempt from the
otherwise applicable building height restrictions in the underlying zoning
district provided however that in no event shall any FULL-SERVICE HOTEL exceed
a height of 80 feet or six stories.
   HOUSEHOLD PET. Animals that are customarily kept for personal use or
enjoyment within the dwelling unit. HOUSEHOLD PETS shall include, but not be
limited to, domestic dogs, domestic cats, domestic tropical birds or fresh or
salt water fish.
   HOUSEHOLDER. The occupant of a dwelling unit who is either the owner or
lessee thereof.
   HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY/SENIOR APARTMENTS. (See also CONGREGATE HOUSING and
LIFE CARE FACILITY.) A building or group of buildings containing dwellings
where the occupancy of dwellings is restricted to person(s) based upon age of
the husband and/or the wife. This does not include a development that contains
convalescent or nursing facilities.
   IMPACT NOISE. A short duration of sound such as those from a forging hammer
or punch press.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that has been compacted or covered with a
layer of material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration by water. It
includes surfaces such as compacted sand, lime rock or clay, as well as most
conventionally surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks, parking lots and other
similar structures. (See Figure 8.)
   INCOMBUSTIBLE. A material which will not ignite nor actively support
combustion during an exposure for five minutes to a temperature of 1,200°F.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. An area designed as a coordinated environment for a variety
of industrial and related activities. The project is developed or controlled by
one proprietary interest. It has an enforceable master plan and/or covenants,
conditions and restrictions. The development may be on one parcel, or may be
subdivided; and may have a condominium ownership, or a combination of these
types.
   INDUSTRY, HEAVY. A use engaged in the basic processing and manufacturing of
materials or products predominately from extracted or raw materials, or a use
engaged in storage of, or manufacturing processes using flammable or explosive
materials, or storage or manufacturing processes that potentially involve
hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
   INDUSTRY, LIGHT. A use engaged in the manufacture, predominantly from
previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental storage,
sales and distribution of such products, but excluding basic industrial
processing.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by not-for-profit corporation wholly for
public or private use.
   JUNK. Old, dilapidated, scrap or abandoned metal, paper, building material
and equipment, bottles, glass, appliances, furniture, beds and bedding, rags,
rubber, motor vehicles and parts thereof.
   JUNKER. An automobile, truck or other motor vehicle which has been damaged
or in a state of disrepair to such an extent that it cannot be operated under
its own power and will require major repairs before being made usable, or such
a vehicle which does not comply with state or village laws or ordinances for
motor vehicles.
   JUNK YARD. An open area where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags or similar
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or
handled, including auto, farm implements and machinery and building wrecking
yards, but excluding similar uses taking place entirely within a completely
enclosed building.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more
than four dogs, cats and other domestic animals, over four months of age, are
kept for sale, or on which more than two such animals are boarded for
compensation.
   KENNEL, PRIVATE. Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which less than
four dogs, cats and other household domestic animals, over four months of age,
are kept by the owner for the purposes of show, hunting or as pets.
   LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL. A place devoted to experimental study, such as
testing and analyzing. Manufacturing assembly or packaging of products is not
included within this definition.
   LANDFILL. A type of operation in which refuse and earth or other suitable
cover material are deposited in alternate layers or specified depth in
accordance with a definite plan on a specified portion of open land, with each
layer being compacted by force applied by mechanical equipment.
   LANDSCAPE COVERAGE. The percentage of a zoning lot that is not occupied by
buildings, including accessory buildings and structures, driveways, sidewalks
and other impervious surfaces.
   LAUNDERETTE AND LAUNDRY SELF-SERVICE. A business that provides coin-operated
self-service type washing, drying, dry-cleaning and ironing facilities;
providing that not more than four persons, including owners, are employed on
the premises; and no pick-up or delivery service is maintained.
   LIFE CARE FACILITY. (See also CONGREGATE HOUSING and HOUSING FOR THE
ELDERLY.) A facility for the transitional residency of elderly and/or disabled
persons, progressing from independent living in single-family units to
congregate apartments living where residents share common meals and culminating
in a full health and continuing care nursing home facility.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An open hard surfaced area of land
other than a street or public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors and trailers to
avoid undue interference with public streets and alleys. This space shall not
be less than 12 feet in width, 35 foot depth for single-unit truck, 60 foot
depth for tractor-trailer truck and 14 feet in height, exclusive of access
aisles and maneuvering space.
   LODGE, PRIVATE. A non-profit association of person(s), who are bona fide
members paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases a building, or portion
thereof, the use of the premises being restricted to members and their guests.
It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on such premises provided that
adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available. The sale of
alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed in conjunction
with the operation of a dining room for the purpose of serving food and meals,
though such beverages may be served in a separate room(s), and provided that
the sale of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable local,
county, state and federal laws.
   LOWLAND CONSERVANCY OVERLAY DISTRICT. See
Chapter 156.
   LOT. (See also LOT OF RECORD.) A parcel of land legally described as a
single lot, occupied or intended for occupancy by one principal building,
together with its accessory structures and uses, including the yards required
by this chapter, and having a frontage on a public or private street or
easement, except that a planned unit development may have two or more principal
buildings which need not front on a street or easement. The following specific
definitions describe the various lot designs that might be found in the
village.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot which adjoins the point of intersection to two or
more streets in which the interior angle formed by the street lines is 135
degrees or less. If the street lines are curved, the angle shall be measured at
the point of intersection of the extensions of the street lines in the
direction they take at the intersection of the street line with the side lot
line and rear lot line of the lot. If the street is curved at its point of
intersection with the side lot line or rear lot line, the tangent to the curve
at that point shall be considered the direction of the street.
      (2)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. (See also THROUGH LOT and LOT, THROUGH.) A lot
having a pair of opposite lot lines along two more or less parallel streets,
and which is not a corner lot.
      (3)   INTERIOR LOT. (See also LOT, INTERIOR.) A lot other than a corner
lot.
      (4)   REVERSED CORNER LOT. A corner lot, the rear lot line of which
adjoins upon the side lot line of another lot.
      (5)   THROUGH LOT. See DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT.
   LOT AREA. The area of horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lot lines.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of a zoning lot occupied by buildings,
including accessory buildings and structures, driveways, sidewalks and other
impervious surfaces.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and lot lines of a
lot measured within the lot boundaries. (See Figure 10.)
   LOT, FLAG. A lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot by means of a
narrow strip of land that maintains a short distance of street frontage. (See
Figure 11.)
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a
public street; for a corner lot, the front shall be the narrowest side edge of
the lot fronting on a street (unless the main entrance of the house faces the
widest side edge of the lot, at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator).
The owner may orient their building toward either street.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot (see Figure 11) or through
corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding a lot from another lot or from a
street. (See Figure 3.)
   LOT LINE, FRONT. (See also YARD, FRONT.) On an interior lot, the lot line
abutting a street; or on a corner lot, the shorter lot line abutting a street
(unless the main entrance of the house faces a longer lot line, at the
discretion of the Zoning Administrator); or on a through lot, the lot line
abutting the street providing the primary access to the lot; or on a flag lot,
the interior lot line most parallel to the nearest the street from which access
is obtained.
   LOT LINE, REAR. That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or
almost nearly is, parallel to the front lot line. In the instance of an
irregular or triangular shaped lot, the REAR LOT LINE is a line of not less
than ten feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at maximum distance
from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot that is not a front or rear lot line.
On a corner lot, a SIDE LOT LINE may be a street lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. (See also LOT.) A lot which is part of a subdivision, the
plat of which has been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds,
or a parcel of land the deed of which was recorded in the Recorder of Deeds
Office, prior to February 10, 1987.
   LOT, SUBSTANDARD. A lot or parcel of land that has less than the required
minimum area or width as established by the district in which it is located and
provided that such lot or parcel was of record as a legally created lot on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this title.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having its front and rear yards each abutting on a
street. (See Figure 11.)
   LOT WIDTH. The minimum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot measured along the front building line, as provided in this chapter. (See
Figure 10.)
   MANUFACTURING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment, the principal use of which is
manufacturing, fabricating, processing, assembly, repairing, storing, cleaning,
servicing or testing of materials, goods or products.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A factory built, single-family structure that is
manufactured under the authority of 42 U.S.C. § 5401, the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act; is transportable in one or more
sections; is built on a semi-permanent chassis; and is used as a place of human
habitation; but which is not constructed with a permanent hitch or other device
allowing transport of the unit other than for the purpose of delivery to the
site, and which does not have wheels or axles permanently attached to its body
or frame.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A parcel of land under single ownership
that has been planned and improved for the placement of manufactured housing
for single-family detached dwelling purposes.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projection beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MASSAGE and/or MASSAGE THERAPY. A system of structured palpation or movement
of the soft tissue of the body. The system may include, but is not limited to,
techniques, such as effleurage or stroking and gliding, petrissage or kneading,
tapotement or percussion, friction, vibration, compression and stretching
activities as they pertain to MASSAGE THERAPY. These techniques may be applied
by a licensed massage therapist, with or without the aid of lubricants, salt or
herbal preparations, hydromassage, thermal massage or a massage device that
mimics or enhances the actions possible by human hands. The purpose of the
practice of massage, as licensed under the Illinois Massage Therapy Practice
Act, 225 ILCS 57/1, and as defined herein, is to enhance the general health and
well-being of the mind and body of the recipient. MASSAGE does not include the
diagnosis of a specific pathology. MASSAGE or MASSAGE THERAPY does not include
those acts of physical therapy or therapeutic or corrective measures that are
outside the scope of massage therapy practice as defined in the Illinois
Massage Therapy Practice Act.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment providing massage or massage therapy
administered by persons licensed by the State Department of Professional
Regulation under the Illinois Massage Therapy Practice Act, 225 ILCS 57/1, as
massage therapists.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. A person who is licensed by the State Department of
Professional Regulation under the Illinois Massage Therapy Practice Act, 225
ILCS 57/1, to perform massage or massage therapy.
   MINI-WAREHOUSES. (See SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY.)
   MOBILE HOME. A trailer designed and constructed for dwelling purposes which
contains cooking, sanitary and electrical facilities and has a gross area of
220 square feet or more. It is transportable and factory built and has been
designed to be used as a partial year-round residential dwelling and was built
prior to the enactment of the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act of 1974, which became effective June 15, 1976, and Act
115, Illinois Manufactured Housing and Mobile Home Safety Act, effective July
1, 1974 and amended October 1, 1975 and January 10, 1991 according to the 1994
Ill. Rev. Stat. 430 ILCS 115 in its entirety.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A lot, parcel or tract of land developed with facilities
for accommodating two or more mobile homes; provided each mobile home contains
a kitchen, flush toilet and shower or bath; and the park shall be for use only
by non-transient dwellers remaining continuously for more than one month,
whether or not a charge is made. It shall not include a sales lot in which
automobiles or unoccupied mobile homes or other trailers are parked for the
purpose of inspection or sale, except mobile homes located on a site in the
MOBILE HOME PARK which are occupied or vacant for not more than 30 days after
occupancy may be sold or offered for sale.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building in which freight, brought to the building
by motor truck, is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate and
interstate shipment by motor truck.
   MOTOR HOME. A motor vehicle built on a truck or bus chassis and designed to
serve as self-contained living quarters for recreational travel.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A passenger vehicle, motorcycle, truck, truck-trailer,
trailer or semitrailer propelled or powered either mechanically or
electrically.
   NAMEPLATE. A sign indicating the name and address of a building or the name
of the occupant thereof, and the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
   NIGHTCLUB. (See also BAR.) A commercial establishment dispensing alcoholic
or non-alcoholic (teen club) beverages for consumption on the premises and in
which dancing is permitted.
   NITS. A unit of luminance equal to one candela per square meter.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. Any building that does not meet the limitations on
building size and location on a lot, for the district in which such building is
located, for the use to which such building is being put.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A use or activity which lawfully existed prior to the
adoption, revision or amendment of this chapter, but which fails by reason of
such adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the use district in which it
is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by use
or lawfully established at the time of the adoption of this chapter or
amendments thereto, which does not conform after the passage of this chapter or
amendments hereto with the use regulations of this chapter.
   NOXIOUS MATTER. Material which is capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects
upon the psychological, social or economic well-being of human beings.
   NURSING HOME. (See also CONGREGATE HOUSING.) A home for the care of children
or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but not
including facilities for surgical care.
   NURSERY SCHOOL or DAY NURSERY. (See also CHILD DAY CARE.) An institution
providing care for three or more children under the age of seven years of age
for periods of more than four hours but less than 12 hours.
   OBSTRUCTION. An obstacle, impediment or hindrance.
   OCTAVE BAND. A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves
in order to classify sound according to pitch.
   OCTAVE BAND FILTER. An electrical frequency analyzer, designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound-level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals (ANSIS1.11-2004).
   ODOR THRESHOLD. The lowest concentration of odorous matter in air that will
produce an olfactory response in a human being. ODOR THRESHOLDS shall be
determined in accordance with ASTME679-04.
   ODOROUS MATTER. Any material that produced an olfactory response among human
beings.
   OFFICE. A place such as a building, room or suite in which services,
clerical work, professional duties or the like are carried out.
   OFFICE PARK. A large tract of land that has been planned, developed and
operated as an integrated facility for a number of separate office buildings
and supporting ancillary uses with special attention given to circulation,
parking, utility needs, aesthetics and land use compatibility.
   OIL, GAS TREATMENT AND PROCESSING PLANT. A facility designed to separate and
recover hydrocarbons (i.e., butane, ethane, propane) and/or to remove
impurities (i.e., hydrogen sulfide) from oil or gas. Also, could include, but
not be limited to, the mixing and/or blending of additives, detergents, benzene
and alcohols during processing/manufacturing.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Any land used or occupied for the purpose of buying and
selling new or secondhand passenger cars or trucks, motor scooters,
motorcycles, boats, trailers, aircraft, monuments and the like, and for the
storing of the same prior to sale.
   OPEN SPACE. (See also BUFFER AREA, CONSERVATION AREA and GREENBELT.) An area
that is intended to provide light and air, and is designed for either
environmental, scenic or recreational purposes. OPEN SPACE may include, but is
not limited to, lawns, decorative plantings, walkways, active and passive
recreation areas, playgrounds, fountains, swimming pools, wooded areas, bike
pathways and water courses. OPEN SPACE shall not be deemed to include
driveways, parking lots or other surfaces designed or intended for vehicular
travel. OPEN SPACE may also be considered as land used for recreation, resource
protection, amenity and/or buffers. In no event shall any area of a lot
constituting the minimum lot area, nor any part of any existing or future road
or right-of-way, be counted as constituting OPEN SPACE.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. Open space within or related to a development, not in
individually owned lots or dedicated for public use, but which is designed and
intended for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods, material,
merchandise or vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours.
   PARCEL. A continuous quantity of land in the possession of or owned by, or
recorded as the property of, the same person or persons.
   PARCEL DELIVERY STATION. A building in which commodities, sold at retail
within the area and packaged by the retailer, are assembled and routed for
delivery to retail customers located within the area.
   PARK. Any public or private land available for recreational, educational,
cultural or aesthetic use.
   PARKING AREAS.
      (1)   PRIVATE PARKING AREA. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a
street or public way, designed, arranged and made available for the storage of
private passenger automobiles only, of occupants of the building or buildings
for which the parking area is developed and is accessory.
      (2)   PUBLIC PARKING AREA. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a
street or public way, intended to be used for the storage of passenger
automobiles and commercial vehicles under one and one-half ton capacity, and
available to the general public, whether for compensation, free or as an
accommodation to clients or customers.
   PARKING LOT. (See also GARAGE, PUBLIC.) An area not within a building where
motor vehicles may be stored for the purposes of temporary, daily or overnight
off-street parking.
   PARKING, SHARED. The development and use of parking areas on two or more
separate properties for joint use by the business on those properties.
   PARKING SPACE. An area on a lot and/or within a building intended for the
use of temporary parking of a personal vehicle. This term is used
interchangeably with parking stall. Each PARKING SPACE must have a means of
access to a public street. Tandem parking stalls in single-family detached,
single-family attached and townhome residential uses shall be considered to
have a means of access to a public street.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a public or private parking area of
not less than 190 square feet, nine and one-half feet by 20 feet, exclusive of
access drives, or aisles, ramps, columns or office and work areas, for the
storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under one and one-
half ton capacity.
   PARTICULATE MATTER. Material which is suspended in or discharged into the
atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid or solid at atmospheric pressure
and temperature.
   PARTY WALL. An interior wall of adjoining structures extending from its
footing to the underside of the roof, and which separates and is in common use
by the adjoining structures.
   PATIO. A level, unenclosed surfaced area located at grade and usually
directly adjoining or attached to a building.
   PATIO STONE. Decorative concrete blocks used in a yard or garden. These
blocks are contiguous and are semi-permanent in nature. No permit is required
for these blocks; provided they do not exceed 100 square feet in area. These
blocks are counted towards lot coverage.
   PEDIMENT. A decorative structure set over a door or window.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. (See also MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE.) A financial
guarantee to ensure that all improvements, facilities or work required by this
chapter will be completed in compliance with the approved ordinances,
regulations and the approved plans and specifications of the development.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. A criterion to control noise, odor, smoke, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards or glare or heat
generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
   PERGOLA. An accessory structure consisting of columns that support a roofing
grid of beams and rafters. This roofing grid may be left open or covered so as
to create an area sheltered from the elements.
   PET. See HOUSEHOLD PET.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP. See CHURCH.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission (the
“Commission”) of the village.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. Land under unified control to be planned and
developed as a whole in a single development operation or a definitely
programmed series of development operations or phases. A planned development
includes principal and accessory structures and uses substantially related to
the character and purposes of the planned development. A planned development is
built according to general and detailed plans that include not only streets,
utilities, lots and building location and the like, but also site plans for all
buildings as are intended to be located, constructed, used and related to each
other, and plans for other uses and improvements on the land as related to the
buildings. A planned development includes a program for the provisions,
operations and maintenance of such areas, facilities and improvements as will
be for common use by some or all of the occupants of the planned development,
but which will not be provided, operated or maintained at general public
expense.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, AREA. A tract of land which is developed as a unit
under single ownership or control, which includes two or more principal
buildings, and which is at least four acres in area, except for planned
developments operated by a municipal corporation which shall be at least two
acres in area, and planned manufacturing developments which shall be at least
ten acres in area.
   PLANT NURSERY. Any land used to produce trees, shrubs, flowers and other
plants for sale or transplanting.
   PORCH. A roofed platform or slab projecting from the wall of a building and
having direct access to or from the building to which it is attached. A PORCH
has no solid walls other than the wall of the building to which it is attached.
A PORCH may be enclosed with a mesh screen to keep out unwanted insects, but is
otherwise exposed to the elements throughout the year.
   PREFERRED FREQUENCIES. A set of octave bands described by the band center
frequency and standardized by ASTME 1332.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A structure in or on which is conducted the principal
use of the lot on which such structure is located. (See Figure 1.)
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of the land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
   PRINT SHOP. A retail establishment that provides duplicating services using
photocopy, blueprint and offset printing equipment, including collating of
booklets and reports.
   PRIVATE CLUB. See CLUB.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Any publicly-owned open area, including, but not limited
to, the following: parks, playgrounds, forest preserves, beaches, waterways,
parkways, streets and golf courses.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation or municipal department duly
authorized to furnish under public regulation to the public, electricity, gas,
steam, telephone, sewers, transportation, water or cable television.
   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities
for track operation, but not including depot loading platforms, stations, train
sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops, water towers and the
like.
   REAR YARD. See YARD, REAR.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A facility that is not a junk yard, in which recoverable
resources, such as newspapers, glassware and metal cans, are collected, stored,
flattened, crushed or bundled, either by hand or mechanically assisted within a
completely enclosed building.
   RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. A collection point for small refuse items, such
as bottles, metal cans and newspapers, located either in a container or small
structure.
   RECYCLING PLANT. A facility that is not a junkyard and in which recoverable
resources, such as newspapers, magazines, books and other paper products;
glass; metal cans; and other products, are recycled, reprocessed and treated to
return such products to a condition in which they may again be used for
production.
   REFUSE. All waste products resulting from human habitation, except sewage.
   RESEARCH LABORATORY. (See also LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL.) A building or group
of buildings in which are located facilities for scientific research,
investigation, testing or experimentation, but not facilities for the
manufacture or sale of products, except as incidental to the main purpose of
the laboratory.
   RESIDENCE. A residence is a permanent structure where one resides or dwells.
   RESIDENTS’ ASSOCIATION. See HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATION.
   RESORT. A hotel or motel that serves as a destination point for visitors. A
RESORT generally provides recreational facilities for persons on vacation. A
RESORT shall be self-contained and provide personal services customarily
furnished at hotels, including the serving of meals. Buildings and structures
in a RESORT should complement the scenic qualities of the location in which the
RESORT is situated.
   RESTAURANT. Any building, or part thereof, other than a boarding house,
where meals are provided for compensation, including a café, cafeteria, coffee
shop, lunch room, drive-in stand, tea-room and dining room, and including the
serving of alcoholic beverages when served with and incidental to the serving
of meals, where permitted by local ordinance.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. An establishment that delivers prepared food and/or
beverages (non-alcoholic) to customers in motor vehicles, regardless of whether
or not it also serves prepared food and/or (non-alcoholic) to customers who are
not in motor vehicles, for consumption either on or off the premises.
   RESTAURANT, FAST-FOOD. Any establishment whose principal business is the
sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverages in ready-to-consume individual
servings, for consumption either within the restaurant building or for carry-
out, and where either:
      (1)   Foods, frozen desserts or beverages are usually served in paper,
plastic or other disposable containers, and where customers are not served
their food, frozen desserts or beverages by a restaurant employee at the same
table or counter where the items are consumed; or
      (2)   The establishment includes a drive-up or drive-through service
facility or offers curb service.
   REST HOME. See NURSING HOME.
   RETIREMENT COMMUNITY. See HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water mains, sanitary or storm sewer mains, sidewalks and bike paths.
   RINGLEMANN CHART. A chart which is described in the United States Bureau of
Mines Information Circular 6888, and on which are illustrated graduated shades
of grey for use in estimating the light-obscuring capacity of smoke.
   RINGLEMANN NUMBER. The number of the area on the Ringlemann Chart that
coincides most nearly with the visual density of smoke emission.
   ROAD, PUBLIC. (See also RIGHT-OF-WAY and STREET.) All public property
reserved or dedicated for public use, which shall include roadways and public
utilities.
   ROAD, PRIVATE. (See also RIGHT-OF-WAY and STREET.) A way open to vehicular
ingress and egress established as a separate tract for the benefit of certain,
adjacent properties. This definition shall not apply to driveways.
   ROADSIDE STAND, BUSINESS. A structure whose primary function is to display
and sell agricultural products which have been produced off premises for
resale.
   ROADSIDE STAND, FARMERS. A structure for the display and sale of only
agricultural products which have been produced solely on the premises. (See
specific requirements on permitting.)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street which is used or intended to be used for
the movement of vehicular traffic.
   ROOMING HOUSE. (See also BOARDING HOUSE.) A building that is the primary
residence of the owner and in which rooms are provided by the owner, for
compensation, to one to three adult persons not related by blood, marriage or
adoption to the owner.
   RUNWAY. A strip or area of pavement used exclusively for the land and taking
off of aircraft, or for the movement of vehicles incidental to such use.
   SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNA/SATELLITE DISH. An accessory structure whose
purpose is to receive communications, electromagnetic waves or other signals
from satellites and other extraterrestrial sources. It also is a round,
parabolic antenna intended to receive these signals from orbiting satellites
and other sources. RESIDENTIAL DISH ANTENNAS are defined as being less than
eight feet in diameter, while commercial dish antennas are usually those larger
than eight feet and typically used by broadcasting stations or cable television
franchisees. Dishes that are less than 18 inches in size are preempted from
local control according to federal guidelines.
   SCHOOL. Elementary, high or college, public or private, or non-profit junior
college, college or university, other than trade and business schools,
including instructional and recreational uses and school bus garages, with or
without living quarters, dining rooms, restaurants, heating plants and other
incidental facilities for students, teachers and employees.
   SCREENING. (See also BUFFER AREA and FENCE.) A device or materials used to
conceal one element of a development from other elements or from adjacent or
contiguous development. SCREENING may include one or a combination of the
following materials of sufficient mass to be opaque or that shall become opaque
after 12 months and which shall be maintained in an opaque condition: fences,
shrubs, hedges, berming or other plantings that maintain an opaque condition.
   SELF-SERVICE STATION. An establishment where liquids used as motor fuels are
stored and dispersed into approved fuel containers or motor vehicles by persons
other than the service station attendant and may include facilities available
for the sale of other retail products (i.e., bread, pop, milk).
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings in a
controlled access and fenced compound that contains varying sizes of
individual, compartmentalized and controlled access stalls or lockers for the
storage of the customer’s goods or wares.
   SERVICE STATION. (See also GARAGE, REPAIR.) Any premises where gasoline and
other petroleum products are sold and/or light maintenance activities such as
engine tune-ups, lubrication, minor repairs and carburetor cleaning are
conducted. SERVICE STATIONS shall not include premises where heavy automobile
maintenance activities such as engine overhauls, automobile painting and body
fender work are conducted.
   SETBACK. The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line
and the related front, side or rear property line. (See Figures 3 and 10.)
   SETBACK, ESTABLISHED. When 40% or more of the lots fronting on one side of a
street within a block are improved, the existing setbacks of the improved lots
shall be the ESTABLISHED SETBACK for determining the depth of the required
front yards for the remainder of the lots along such street frontage, as
regulated by this chapter.
   SETBACK LINE, BUILDING. See BUILDING SETBACK LINE; see Figures 3 and 10.
   SHELTER. See EMERGENCY SHELTER/MISSION.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A grouping of retail business and service uses on a single
site with common parking facilities.
   SIDE YARD. See YARD, SIDE; see Figure 3.
   SIDEWALK CAFÉ. An area adjacent to and directly in front of a street-level
eating or drinking establishment located within the sidewalk area of the public
right-of-way exclusively for dining, drinking and pedestrian circulation. The
encroachment area of a SIDEWALK CAFÉ may be separated from the remainder of the
sidewalk by railings, fencing or landscaping planter boxes or a combination
thereof.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The area established at the intersection of two streets or a
street and a driveway in which nothing shall be erected, planted or allowed to
grow so as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists and
pedestrians.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure consisting of any letter,
figure, character, mark, point, plane, marquee sign, design, poster, pictorial,
picture, stroke, stripe, line, trademarks, reading matter or illuminating
device; constructed, attached, erected, fastened or manufactured in any manner
whatsoever so that the SIGN shall be used for the attraction of the public to
any place, subject, person, public performance, article, machine or merchandise
whatsoever and displayed in any manner whatsoever for recognized advertising
purposes.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than upon the
premises on which such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, ANIMATED OR MOVING. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting
to depict action or created a special effect or scene.
   SIGN, AWNING. Any sign painted, stamped, perforated or stitched, or
otherwise applied on the balance of an awning over a door, entrance, window,
pedestrian way or outdoor service area.
   SIGN, BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is
permanently mounted to a pole or a building by a permanent frame at one or more
edges. National flags, state or municipal flags or the official flag of any
institution or business shall not be considered banners.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. See BILLBOARD; see Figure 12(a).
   SIGN, BOX OR CABINET. A sign that contains all of the text and/or logo
symbols within a single enclosed cabinet and may or may not be internally
illuminated.
   SIGN, BUILDING. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as contrasted
to a freestanding sign.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such a sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, CANOPY. A sign painted on or otherwise incorporated onto a fixed
structure made of cloth or metal, with metal framework projection over and
supported by the ground.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A temporary sign identifying the participants taking
part in a construction project on the property on which the sign is located,
and including parties, such as the architect, engineer, contractor,
subcontractor, owner, developer, sponsor and financial supporter.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than eight
times per day shall be considered an animated sign by definition. A sign on
which the only copy that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of
time or temperature shall be considered a “time and temperature” portion of a
sign and not a CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN.
   SIGN, CHURCH BULLETIN BOARD. A sign attached to the exterior of a church or
located elsewhere on the church premises, used to indicate the services or
activities of the church and including its name, if desired.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. Ingress or egress and other traffic circulation signs
which guide pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. Any sign that uses changing lights to form a
sign message or messages wherein the sequence of messages and the rate of
change is electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic process.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such
is in use. Any revolving, illuminated sign shall be considered a FLASHING SIGN.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign supported by one or more upright poles, columns
or braces placed in or on the ground and not attached to any building or
structure. (See Figure 12(b).)
   SIGN, GOVERNMENTAL AND ESSENTIAL SERVICE. A sign erected and maintained to
identify or serve any government function or control, including essential
service signs which may be related to traffic, utility locations or emergency
services.
   SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA. A sign shall be the entire area within a single
continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of the sign and in no case
passing through or between any adjacent elements of the sign. The perimeter
shall not include any structural or framing elements lying outside the limits
of the sign and not forming an integral part of the display.
   SIGN, GROUND. Any sign erected, constructed or maintained for the purpose of
displaying outdoor advertising by means of posters, pictures, pictorial and
reading matter when the sign is supported by one or more uprights, posts or
braces placed upon or affixed in the ground and not attached to any part of a
building. (See Figure 12(b).)
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. (See also BUILDING MARKER.) A structure, building wall
or other outdoor surface used to display and identify the name of the
individual, business, profession, organization or institution occupying the
premises on which it is located.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial light
source (i.e., internal, external).
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the zoning lot on which it is located, such as “no
parking,” “entrance,” “loading only,” “telephone” and other similar directives.
No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the zoning lot on
which the sign is located shall be considered INCIDENTAL.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. A sign painted or otherwise incorporated onto any marquee
(rooflike structure) of permanent construction extending over a pedestrian way
and projecting out from the wall of a building.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A ground supported sign mounted on a solid base or
supporting uprights greater than two feet in width. Any sign mounted less than
seven feet above grade is also classified as a MONUMENT SIGN. (See Figure 12
(b).)
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. See BILLBOARD and OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign which directs attention to a business or
profession conducted, including commodity, entertainment or service sold,
offered or manufactured on the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. A sign consisting of any letter, figure,
character, mark, point, plane, marquee sign, poster, pictorial, picture,
stroke, stripe, line, trademarks, reading matter or illuminating device;
constructed, attached, erected, fastened or manufactured in any manner
whatsoever so that the sign shall be used for the attraction of the public to
any place, subject, person, public performance, article, machine or merchandise
whatsoever not sold, produced, manufactured or furnished at the property on
which the sign is located; and displayed in any manner whatsoever out of doors
for recognized advertising purposes.
   SIGN, POLE. A sign supported by one or more upright poles, columns or braces
constructed with a concrete foundation not attached to any building or
structure. (See Figure 12(d).)
   SIGN, POLITICAL. A sign showing support for a political candidate,
candidates or party running for an elected office of at the municipal,
township, county, state or federal government levels, usually temporary in
nature.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign, of a temporary nature, not anchored to the ground or
to a building or structure, including any sign attached to or displayed on a
vehicle that is used for the expressed purpose of advertising a business
establishment, product, service or entertainment, when that vehicle is so
parked as to attract the attention of the motoring or pedestrian traffic, and
which obtains some or all of its structural stability with respect to wind or
other normally applied forces by means of its geometry or character. (See
Figure 12(c).)
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign other than a wall sign that is attached to and
projects from the wall or face of a building or structure, including an arcade/
marquee sign. (See Figure 12(g).)
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected upon, against or directly above a roof or roof
eave, or on top or above the parapet, or on a functional architectural
appendage above the roof or roof eave. (See Figure 12(e).)
   SIGN, SUSPENDED. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by such surface.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A display, informational sign, banner or other advertising
device constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, wood or other temporary material,
with or without a structural frame, and intended for a limited period of
display, including decorative displays for holidays or public demonstrations. A
sign that is intended for use for only a limited period of time.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign painted on the outside of a building, or attached to, and
erected parallel to the face of a building and supported throughout its length
by such building. Also, any sign that is temporarily affixed to or displayed on
the interior of an establishment so as to be readable from the exterior
thereof. (See Figure 12(f).)
   SIGN, WINDOW. A sign painted, stenciled or affixed on a window, which is
visible from the street right-of-way. (See Figure 12(h).)
   SITE PLAN. A document or group of documents containing sketches, text,
drawings, maps, photographs and other material intended to present and explain
certain elements of a proposed development, including physical design, citing
of buildings and structures, interior vehicular and pedestrian access, the
provision of improvements and the interrelationship of these elements.
   SLOPE. See GRADE.
   SMOKE. Small gas-borne particles other than water that form a visible plume
in the air.
   SMOKE UNIT. The number obtained by multiplying the smoke density in
Ringelmann numbers by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
chart, Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every minute during the
period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time in minutes
during which it is observed, and the various products are added together to
give the total number of SMOKE UNITS observed during the total period under
observation.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An electronic instrument which includes a microphone, an
amplifier and an output meter which measures noise and sound pressure levels in
a specified manner. It may be used with the octave band analyzer that permits
measuring the sound pressure level in discrete octave bands.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The intensity of a sound measured in decibels
mathematically described as 20 times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio
of the pressure of the sound to a reference pressure of 0.0002 micro-bar.
   SPA or DAY SPA. A commercial establishment which offers patrons multiple
services such as: personal hygiene, grooming, relaxation therapy, hydrotherapy
and licensed massage therapy. The establishment may also offer incidental light
nourishment or refreshment for patrons. Establishments which offer massage
therapy must conform to the other provisions governing the same in this
chapter.
   SPECIAL USE. (See also CONDITIONAL USE and USE, SPECIAL.) Any use of land or
buildings, or both, described and permitted herein, subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
   STABLE, LIVERY. Any building, other than a “private stable,” designed,
arranged, used or intended to be used for the storage of horses and horse-drawn
livery or both.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. Any building, which is located on a lot on which a dwelling
is located, and which is designed, arranged, used or intended to be used for
housing horses for the private use of occupants of the dwelling.
   STABLE, PUBLIC (RIDING OR BOARDING STABLE). A building and grounds which are
designed, arranged, used or intended to be used for the storage, boarding,
breeding of horses, including accessory uses which may include riding and
equestrian instructions and the hire of riding horses.
   STACKING REQUIREMENTS. The number of cars that must be accommodated in a
reservoir space while awaiting ingress or egress to specified business or
service establishments.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. The construction standards for the village, which
shall apply in all respects, when applicable.
   STONE MATERIAL. Masonry construction using stone material may consist of
granite, marble, limestone, slate, river rock and other hard and durable
naturally occurring all weather stone. Cut stone, dimensioned stone and
manufactured stone products are acceptable, but no imitation stone, stone
sheeting or stone veneer shall be allowed under this chapter under any
circumstances whatsoever.
   STORY. (See also STORY, HALF.) The portion of a building included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor above it, or if there is
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and ceiling next above it.
Any portion of a STORY exceeding 14 feet in height shall be considered as an
additional STORY for each 14 feet or fraction thereof.
   STORY, HALF. (See also STORY.) The portion of a building under a gable, hip
or mansard roof, the wall plates of which on at least two opposite exterior
walls are not more than four and one-half feet above the finished floor of each
story. In the case of one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and multiple-
family dwellings less than three stories in height, a HALF-STORY in a sloping
roof shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of this chapter. In the
case of multiple-family dwellings three or more stories in height, a HALF-STORY
shall be counted as a story.
   STREET. A right-of-way which affords primary means of access by pedestrians
and motor vehicles to abutting properties; whether designated as a street,
avenue, drive, lane, court, boulevard, roadway, highway, easement or however
otherwise designated.
   STREET LINE. A line separating an abutting lot, piece or parcel of land from
the street.
   STREET, CLASSIFICATION. The hierarchy of road types based on size and
traffic volume. The classification system used by the village is the standard
set by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   STREET, CLASSIFICATION: INTERSTATE EXPRESSWAY. Typical uses are for regional
and national trips. These routes are divided highways with no direct access to
fronting properties. Direct access is limited to periodic interchanges.
   STREET, CLASSIFICATION: MAJOR ARTERIAL. Many of the trips on a major
arterial are trips that span an entire community and beyond to neighboring
communities. However, they are meant to serve all types of trips. In many
cases, properties fronting MAJOR ARTERIALS have limited access so as to not
impede the traffic flow. MAJOR ARTERIALS typically connect to other regional
arterials and expressways to link cities and counties. Often under the
jurisdiction of the state or county, these streets typically require a minimum
of two lanes in each direction plus turn lanes. Traffic volumes greater than
15,000 vehicles per day can be expected.
   STREET, CLASSIFICATION: MAJOR COLLECTOR. The primary use for major
collectors are trips within the community similar to the secondary arterial,
but do not provide the connectivity to neighboring communities. The MAJOR
COLLECTOR provides connections between arterials but should not carry many
regional trips. Access points to residential, commercial and industrial areas
are found on these streets. Traffic volumes can vary depending on the community
and continuity of the street. In the village, these streets are under the
jurisdiction of the village and carry between 5,000 and 10,000 vehicles per
day.
   STREET, CLASSIFICATION: MINOR COLLECTOR. Also known as a neighborhood
collector, these streets typically are meant to serve only vehicle-trips
generated to and from residential subdivisions, business developments or
industrial parks in the community. MINOR COLLECTORS fuse traffic to the major
collectors and eventually arterials. They are not meant as through streets and
normally are no longer than one mile. MINOR COLLECTORS are under village
jurisdiction and typically carry less than 5,000 vehicles per day.
   STREET, CLASSIFICATION: RESIDENTIAL. Streets in the village are considered
as residential unless otherwise designated as arterials or collectors. These
streets are only meant to connect residences within a neighborhood to collector
roadways.
   STREET, CLASSIFICATION: SECONDARY ARTERIAL. Also serving all types of trips,
the primary use for secondary arterials are trips within the community. This
street type is not meant to carry a significant amount of regional trips;
however, they do often connect to major arterials. The main purpose of the
SECONDARY ARTERIAL is to provide efficient traffic flow and increase the
traffic capacity of the community. These roads also serve adjacent land uses
with more access points than a major arterial. SECONDARY ARTERIALS do not
normally penetrate residential neighborhoods. The majority of these streets are
under the jurisdiction of the county or village and typically carry under
15,000 vehicles per day.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change other than incidental repairs and
remodeling, which would prolong the life of the supporting members of a
building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams and girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected that requires a location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground.
   STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY. A structure which is subordinate to and located on the
same lot on which the principal building or use is located and which is
reasonably necessary and incidental to conduct of the primary use of such
principal building or use, when permitted by the specific zoning district
regulations.
   STRUCTURE, PERMANENT. A structure permanently affixed to the ground with
footing and foundation and which meets all of the building requirements of
Chapter 150.
   STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL. A structure in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. A structure without any footing or foundation which
can be removed when the designated time period, activity or use for which the
temporary structure was erected has ceased.
   SUBDIVISION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided into
two or more parcels of land;
      (2)   Any division of land which created a lot for transfer of ownership,
or building development, where a new street is involved;
      (3)   The dedication of streets, ways or other areas for use of the
public; and
      (4)   Subdivision and/or development does not include the division of a
tract, parcel or lot into parcels or lots, all of which resultant parcels or
lots exceed five acres, and if a new street is not involved. A certified plat
of survey conforming with the applicable provisions of the development
regulations shall be required for the division of land when a new lot is
created for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, and a
new street is not involved.
   SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. The development regulations,
Chapter 156.
   TAVERN. (See also BAR, CLUB, COCKTAIL LOUNGE, NIGHTCLUB.) A building where
liquors are sold to be consumed on the premises, but not including restaurants
where the principal business is the serving of food.
   TEEN CLUB. A non-alcoholic establishment catering to a teenaged customer,
customarily between the ages of 12 to 20. Activities could include, but not be
limited to, foosball, pool, video games, ping pong and the like.
   TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE UNIT. A box-like container without permanently
attached wheels which is transported by truck to and from desired locations and
is used primarily for storage, commonly known as PODS (portable on-demand
storage). Freight, overseas or cargo containers shall not be considered
TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS.
   TEMPORARY SALE. See FLEA MARKET.
   TEMPORARY SIGNAGE. A sign that is intended for a limited use and/or time
frame.
   TEMPORARY/SEASONAL GOODS/ MERCHANDISE. Items which are not normally sold
throughout the year and are displayed and sold only during the time of year for
which they are appropriate or for which they are intended to be used.
   TEMPORARY/SEASONAL OUTDOOR SALES AREA. Areas designated for the sale of
goods and/or merchandise for a specified, limited purpose and period of time,
by an owner or occupant that is located on the same parcel as the seasonal
sales lot.
   TEMPORARY USE. A prospective use, intended for a limited duration, to be
located in a “zoning district” not permitting such use, and not continuing a
nonconforming use or building.
   TENT. A temporary structure stretched and sustained by poles, the roof or
one-half or more of the sides of which is constructed of fabric, silk, cotton,
canvas, plastic/resin or other pliable material.
   TERRACE. A landscape treatment of mounded earth, rock wall, railroad tie
wall or other retaining device or construction used to modify steep grade
differences on a lot. A TERRACE shall not include a patio or deck surface.
   THROUGH LOT. See LOT, THROUGH; see Figure 11.
   TOURIST PARK. A parcel or tract of land containing facilities for locating
two or more travel trailers or mobile homes, and for use only by transients
remaining less than two months, whether or not a charge is made. An open sales
lot in which automobiles or unoccupied trailers are parked for the purpose of
inspection or sale is not included in the TOURIST PARK.
   TOWER - COMMERCIAL. (See also ANTENNA and SATELLITE DISH.) A structure
situated on a nonresidential site that is intended for transmitting or
receiving television, radio or telephone communications, excluding those used
exclusively for dispatched communications.
   TOWER - RESIDENTIAL. (See also ANTENNA and SATELLITE DISH.) A structure
situated on a residential property that is intended for the transmitting of ham
radio, citizen band or the receiving of television or radio transmissions,
excluding those used exclusively for dispatched communications.
   TOWNHOME. See DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY, ATTACHED.
   TOWNHOUSE. See DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY, ATTACHED.
   TOXIC MATERIALS. A substance (liquid, solid or gaseous) which by reason of
an inherent deleterious property tends to destroy life or impair health.
   TRAILER. A vehicle designed and constructed for the specific use of hauling
or delivering of materials, completely enclosed or open on all sides and can
only be moved if attached to a motor vehicle.
   TRAILER CAMP OR PARK. Any premises occupied by or designed to accommodate
two or more automobile house trailers or mobile homes, or the parking of two or
more trailers for business or storage purposes.
   TRAILER, CAMPING. A vehicle designed and constructed for temporary dwelling
purposes which does not contain built-in sanitary facilities and has a gross
floor area of less than 150 square feet.
   TRAILER, OFFICE. Any vehicle or portable structure constructed so as to
permit occupancy thereof, for lodging or dwelling purposes or for use as an
accessory building or structure in the conduct of a business, trade or
occupation and which may be used for a conveyance on streets and highways by
its own or other motive power.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL. (See also MOBILE HOME.) Any vehicle designed and
constructed for dwelling purposes which may contain cooking, sanitary and
electrical facilities and has a gross floor area of 150 square feet or more,
but less than 250 square feet.
   TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS. The conveyance of development rights by
deed, easement or other legal instrument authorized by local law to another
parcel of land and the recording of that conveyance.
   TRANSITIONAL USE. A permitted use or structure that by nature or level and
scale of activity acts as a transition or buffer between two or more
incompatible uses.
   TRUCK TERMINAL. Land and buildings used as a relay station for the transfer
of a load from one vehicle to another or one party to another. The terminal
cannot be used for permanent or long-term accessory storage for principal land
uses at other locations. The terminal facility may include storage areas for
trucks and buildings or areas for the repair of trucks associated with the
terminal.
   TRUCK PARKING AREA OR YARD. Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage or parking of trucks, trailers, tractors and including commercial
vehicles, while not loading or unloading, and which exceed one and one-half
tons in capacity.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. Ground area of a lot, landscaping and recreational
facilities may qualify as usable open space provided that it is an area
unobstructed from the ground to the sky and which is not devoted to public or
private roadways or driveways, and off-street parking and loading; is
accessible and available only to occupants of dwelling units on premises,
except balconies; is not covered by buildings, except not more than 5% of the
required open space may by recreational facilities enclosed within a building
for the use of occupants of the dwelling units on the premises; has not less
than ten feet at its narrowest dimension between either a lot line and an area
not qualifying as usable open space; and is developed, landscaped and
maintained suitably for pedestrian, recreational and leisure use.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged
or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
   USE, LAWFUL. The use of any building, structure or land that conforms with
all of the regulations of this chapter or any amendment hereto and which
conforms with all of the codes, ordinances and other legal requirements, as
existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter or any amendment thereto,
for the structure or land that is being examined.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. See NONCON- FORMING USE.
   USE, PERMITTED. Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a
particular district or districts; provided it conforms with all requirements,
regulations and when applicable, performance standards of this chapter for the
district in which the use is located.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. See PRINCIPAL USE; see Figure 1.
   USE, SPECIAL. A use that has unusual operational, physical or other
characteristics that may be different from those of the predominant permitted
uses in a district, but which is a use that complements and is otherwise, or
can be made, compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. Compliance with special standards not necessarily applicable to other
permitted or special uses in the district shall be required as regulated in
this chapter.
   USED FOR. Includes arranged for, designed for, intended for, maintained for
and/or occupied for.
   VARIANCE. A dispensation permitted on individual parcels or property as a
method of alleviating unnecessary hardship by allowing a reasonable use of the
building, structure or property, which, because of unusual or unique
circumstances, is denied by the terms of the zoning code.
   VENDING MACHINE. A machine for dispensing merchandise or services designed
to be operated by the customer.
   VIBRATION. The periodic displacement, measured in inches, of earth at
designated frequency cycles per second.
   VILLAGE ATTORNEY. The legal counsel representing the Village of Romeoville
and appointed by the Village Board of Trustees.
   VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES. (See also BOARD OF TRUSTEES.) The elected
officials that represent the residents of the village.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The elected official in charge of the village records.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The appointed individual or firm that represents the best
interests of the village with regards to engineering matters (i.e., water,
sanitary sewer, storm sewer and street improvements).
   VILLAGE MANAGER. The individual hired by the Village President and Board of
Trustees who is responsible for the daily management and operations of the
village.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The elected official that represents the residents of the
village and who presides over the Village Board meetings.
   WAREHOUSE. A building used primarily for the storage of goods and materials.
   WAREHOUSING AND DISTRIBUTION. A use engaged in storage, wholesale and
distribution of manufactured products, supplies and equipment, but excluding
bulk storage of materials that are inflammable or explosive or that create
hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
   WETLANDS. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that, under
normal circumstances, does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically
adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic
vegetation. In addition to it is also those transitional lands between
terrestrial and aquatic systems, where the water table is usually at or near
the surface or the land is covered by shallow water. Classification of areas as
WETLANDS shall follow the “Classification of Wetlands and Deep Water Habitats
of the United States,” as published by the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service (FWS/OBS-79/31).
   YARD. Any open space located on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground up, except for accessory buildings, or such
projections as are expressly permitted in these regulations. The minimum depth
or width of a YARD shall consist of the horizontal distance between the lot
line and the nearest point of the foundation wall of the main building.
   YARD, FRONT. (See also LOT LINE, FRONT.) A yard extending along the full
width of a front lot line between side lot lines and from the front lot line to
the front building line in depth. (See Figure 3.)
   YARD, REAR. (See also LOT LINE, REAR.) A yard which is bounded by side lot
lines, rear lot line and the rear yard line. (See Figure 3.)
   YARD, SIDE. (See also LOT LINE, SIDE.) A yard which is bounded by the rear
yard line, front yard line, side yard line and side lot line. (See Figure 3.)
   YARD, SIDE/INTERIOR. (See also LOT LINE, SIDE.) A side yard which adjoins
another lot or an alley separating the side yard from another lot. (See Figure
3.)
   YARD ADJOINING A STREET. A yard which is bounded by the front lot line, side
yard adjoining a street line and rear lot line. (See Figure 3.)
   YARD LINE. A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which the
applicable yard extends and which is not nearer to the lot line at any point
than the required depth of the applicable yard. A structure or other
obstruction shall not encroach into the area between the YARD LINE and the
adjacent lot line, except for such permitted obstructions in yards as are
allowed in by this chapter.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one
or more of the buildings sides rests directly on a lot line. This type of
development shall be permitted only upon the acceptance and approval under a
“planned unit development” as established by this chapter.
   ZONE. See DISTRICT.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The individual who enforces the requirements of this
chapter.
   ZONING CERTIFICATE. A certificate of zoning compliance prepared by the
village prior to the issuance of the building permit.
   ZONING LOT. A parcel of land in single ownership that is of sufficient size
to meet minimum zoning requirements for area, coverage and use, and that can
provide such yards and other open spaces as required by the zoning regulation.
(Prior Code, § 159.003) (Ord. 05-0266, passed 4-6-2005; Ord. 05-0313, passed 2-
1-2006; Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 07-
0509, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 07-0550, passed 7-18-2007; Ord. 07-0599, passed
12-19-2007; Ord. 08-0715, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 09-0800, passed 12-16-2009;
Ord. 10-0816, passed 1-20-2010; Ord. 12-0984, passed 5-2-2012; Ord. 14-1086,
passed 2-5-2014; Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 15-1229, passed 11-18-
2015; Ord. 16-1306, passed 9-7-2016; Ord. 22-1794, passed 9-21-2022; Ord. 25-
1995, passed 8-20-2025)
Editor’s note:
   The figures pertaining to this section and this chapter are found in
Appendix A of this chapter.
§ 157.004 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The provisions of this chapter shall be held to
the minimum requirements for the promotion of “general public health, safety,
morals and welfare.”
   (B)   Relationship with other laws. Where the conditions imposed by any
provisions of this chapter on the use of land or buildings or on the bulk of
buildings are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by any other provisions of this chapter or other law,
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulations of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall
govern.
   (C)   Effect on existing agreements. This chapter is not intended to
invalidate any easement, covenant or any other private agreement; provided that
where the regulations of this chapter are more restrictive, or impose higher
standards or requirements than such easements, covenants or other private
agreements, then the requirements of this chapter shall govern.
   (D)   Interpretation. Any interpretation of this code shall be the
responsibility of the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 159.004)
§ 157.005 SCOPE.
   (A)   Changes in structures or uses. Except as otherwise provided in §§
157.180 through
157.187, nonconforming buildings, structures and uses; all buildings erected
hereafter; all uses of land or buildings established hereafter; all structural
or relocation of existing buildings occurring hereafter; and all enlargements
of or additions to existing uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all
regulations of this chapter which are applicable to the zoning districts in
which the buildings, uses or land shall be located.
   (B)   Nonconforming buildings, structures and uses. Any lawful building,
structure or use existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter may be
continued, even though the buildings, structure or use does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter for the district in which it is located, and
whenever a district shall be changed hereafter, the then existing lawful use
may be continued, subject to the provisions of §§
157.180 through
157.187.
   (C)   Building permits. When a building permit for a building or structure
has been issued in accordance with the law prior to the effective date of this
chapter, and provided that construction is begun within six months of the
effective date and diligently pursued to completion, the building and structure
may be completed in accordance with the approved plans on the basis of which
the building permit has been issued, and further may upon completion be
occupied under a “certificate of occupancy” by the use for which originally
designated subject thereafter to the provisions of §
157.220.
   (D)   Territorial application of regulations. The provision of this chapter
shall apply to structures and land with the village.
   (E)   New structures. All structures built hereafter shall comply with all
of the regulations of this zoning code. Any structure hereafter moved from one
site to another site shall be considered to be a structure built hereafter. Any
structure rebuilt or restored after damage or destruction by fire or other
casualty shall be considered to be a structure built hereafter, unless this
code permits such structure to be rebuilt or restored.
   (F)   New uses of old structures. If the use of any existing structure is
hereafter changed to another use, then the new use shall comply with the use
regulations of this code; provided, however, the mere establishment of a new
use does not by itself require the existing structure to conform to the lot
size or other building regulations of this code.
   (G)   Remodeling. If any structure is hereafter remodeled:
      (1)   The entire structure as remodeled shall comply with the use
regulations of this code;
      (2)   Any alterations or enlargements of, or additions to, the structure
shall comply with the building regulations of this code; and
      (3)   The off-street parking facilities provided for the structure shall
not be reduced below (or if already less than, shall not be further reduced
below) the requirements that would be applicable to a similar new structure or
use.
   (H)   Use of open land. If any use of open land is hereafter established, or
if any use of open land is hereafter changed to another use, such use shall
comply with all the regulations of this code.
(Prior Code, § 159.005)
§ 157.006 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any
reason held to be invalid, by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 159.006)
§ 157.007 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose and provisions herein, the village is organized into
24 districts.
   (B)   The minimum area that may constitute a separate or detached part of
any “zoning district” shall be as follows:
District Land Use Characteristics Minimum Size (acres)
District Land Use Characteristics                          Minimum Size (acres)
A-1      Agricultural District                             10
AD-1     Airport District I                                162
AD-2     Airport District II                               20
B-1      Local Shopping District                           1
B-2      Community Shopping District                       1
B-3      Highway/Regional Shopping District                1
B-4      Automotive Service District                       1
DD       Downtown District                                 N/A
E-R      Single-Family Estate Residential District (43,560 5
         square feet)
FP-1     Floodplain Overlay District                       N/A
P-1      Public/Private Land Conservation District         1
P-B      Planned Business District                         10
M-1      Light/Medium Manufacturing District               10
M-2      Medium/Heavy Manufacturing District               10
M-R      Manufacturing-Research District                   10
R-1      Single-Family Residential District (20,000 square 10
         feet)
R-2      Single-Family Residential District (15,000 square 10
         feet)
R-3      Single-Family Residential District (10,000 square 10
         feet)
R-4      Single-Family Residential District (8,000 square  10
         feet)
R-5      Single-Family Residential District (6,500 square  10
         feet)
R-5A     Single-Family Residential District (6,000 square  N/A
         feet)
R-6      Attached Residential District (5,500 square feet) 10
R-7      General Residential District (4,500 square feet)  10
U-D      University District                               30
 
(Prior Code, § 159.007) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006)
§ 157.008 ZONING MAPS.
   (A)   The boundaries of the zoning districts designated in §
157.007 are established as shown on the maps entitled “Official Zoning Map” of
village, which map accompanies and is made a part of this chapter and shall
have the same force and effect as if the zoning map, together with all
notations, reference and other information shown thereon, were fully set forth
and described in this chapter.
   (B)   When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   District boundary lines are either the centerline of railroads,
highways, streets, alleys or easements or the boundary lines of sections,
quarter sections, divisions of sections, tracts or lots, or such lines extended
or otherwise indicated;
      (2)   In areas not subdivided into lots and blocks, wherever a district
is indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a street or highway, the
depth of the strips shall be in accordance with the dimensions shown on the
maps measured at right angles from the centerline of the street or highway, and
the length of frontage shall be in accordance with dimensions shown on the maps
from section, quarter sections or division lines, or centerline of streets,
highways or railroad rights-of-way unless otherwise indicated; and
      (3)   Where a lot held in one ownership and of record on the effective
date of this chapter is divided by a district boundary line, the entire lot
shall be construed to be within the less restricted district; provided that
this construction shall not apply if it increases the less restricted frontage
of the lot by more than 25 feet.
   (C)   All streets, alleys, publicways, waterways and railroad rights-of-way,
if not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same
zone as the property immediately abutting on the alleys, streets, public-ways,
waterways and railroad rights-of-way serves as a district boundary, the zoning
of the areas, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be
the same as that of the abutting property up to the centerline.
(Prior Code, § 159.008)
§ 157.009 ANNEXATION.
   All land which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall automatically
be classified in the E-R Estate Residential District (65 ILCS 5/7-1-47). If
land is to be classified other than the E-R District, the Village President and
Board of Trustees shall refer the zoning request to the Village Planning and
Zoning Commission (the “Commission”), where the Commission shall, within 60
days after the referral, schedule and hold a public hearing with respect to the
zoning classification, pursuant to the provisions of §§
157.227,
157.228 fee schedule and
157.074 summary tables of this chapter. The Commission shall make findings and
recommendations with respect to the appropriate zoning classification or
classifications being requested for the land and transmit them in writing to
the Village President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 159.009)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 157.020 USE AND BULK.
   (A)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or part thereof, or other structure, shall be erected, raised,
moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered except in conformity with
the regulations herein specified in the district in which it is located.
   (B)   All new buildings and structures shall conform to the building
regulations established herein for the district in which each building shall be
located, except that parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, stacks and necessary mechanical appurtenances shall be
permitted to exceed the maximum height provisions when erected in accordance
with all other ordinances of the village.
   (C)   The maintenance of yards, courts and other open space and minimum lot
area legally required for a building shall be a continuing obligation of the
owner of the buildings or of the property on which it is located, as long as
the building or the property on which it is located, as long as the building is
in existence. No legally required yards, courts, other open space or minimum
lot area allocated to any building shall, by virtue of change of ownership or
for any other reason, be used to satisfy yard, court, other open space or
minimum lot area requirements for any other building.
   (D)   No zoning lot improved with a building or buildings shall hereafter be
divided into two or more zoning lots and no portion of any zoning lot which is
improved with a building or buildings shall be sold, unless all zoning lots
resulting from each division or sale and improved with a building or buildings
shall not be less conforming to all bulk regulations of the zoning district in
which the property is located.
   (E)   All locations of required open spaces or yards or courts and other
open space allocated to a building or dwelling group shall be located on the
same zoning lot as the building or dwelling group, except as otherwise
permitted in planned development and planned open spaces.
   (F)   No yards now or hereafter provided for a building existing on the
effective date of this chapter shall subsequently be reduced below, or further
reduced below if already less than, the minimum yard requirements of this
chapter for equivalent new construction, except as provided in §
157.181.
   (G)   No landscaping or other obstructions shall, after the date of the
adoption of this section, be installed or located within the sight triangle, as
described in §
157.021.
(Prior Code, § 159.013) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 08-0715, passed
11-19-2008; Ord. 09-0799, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 15-1229, passed 11-18-2015)
§ 157.021 SIGHT TRIANGLE.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The following section pertains to the clear line of sight at
intersections of streets and major driveways. The criteria are based on
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) and
the State Department of Transportation (IDOT) design procedures. This section
has been adopted to provide for safe turning movements by providing clear
visibility zones at intersections clear of obstructions such as trees, walls,
signs, buildings and the like. This policy is not intended for determining
traffic controls at intersections. The need for traffic controls is to be
assessed by the rules and regulations contained in the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices and as recommended by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   The application of intersection sight distance and stopping sight
distance shall extend to all proposed and existing public street intersections
and all proposed and existing intersections of private streets and drives with
public streets, including multi-family and commercial entrances. This also
includes local to local intersections such as those within proposed
subdivisions. The village requires that both intersection and stopping sight
distances shall be shown with their geometries on all final construction
drawings and be analyzed during the traffic impact study process.
   (B)   Visual obstructions. Visual obstructions shall be defined as any
object within intersection sight triangles between the heights of no more than
three feet measured relative to the elevation of the nearest pavement crown.
This is based on a driver eye height of three feet and an object height of
three feet (AASHTO and IDOT). Overhanging branches or other elevated
obstructions may not be any lower than ten feet measured relative to the
elevation of the nearest pavement crown.
   (C)   Stop sign controlled intersections. In determining the area of the
sight triangle for intersections with stop sign control, the following criteria
shall be used.
      (1)   One-way stop control: the sight triangles for a stop controlled
minor road at a T-intersection with left turns allowed shall be the same as for
the two-way stop control.
      (2)   Two-way stop control: the sight triangles for a stop controlled
minor road with left turns allowed shall be based on Figures
1 and
2 and Tables
1 and
2 below. The left turning movement requires a longer intersection sight
distance than the right turning movement; therefore, the criteria for the left
turn conditions apply.
         (a)   Figure 1. Left turners looking left.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4629.png]
 
         (b)   Figure 2. Left turners looking right.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4631.png]
 
         (c)   Figure definitions and calculations.
            1.   ISD = Intersection sight distance. See
Table 1 and
Table 2.
            2.   d = Distance from the edge of nearest through lane to the
decision point; 18 feet preferred, 14.5 feet minimum (AASHTO 2004). Any
distance other than 18 feet must be approved by the Village Engineer.
         (d)   Table 1.
 
Table 1. Intersection Sight Distance for Passenger Cars at Stop
Controlled Intersections -
Left Turners Looking Left
Design speed of major road (mph)      20  25  30  35  40  45  50  55
ISD: intersection sight distance (ft) 225 280 335 390 445 500 555 610
Based on the equation below
 
         (e)   Table 2.
 
Table 2. Intersection Sight Distance for Passenger Cars at Stop
Controlled Intersections -
Left Turners Looking Right
Design speed of major road (mph)      20  25  30  35  40  45  50  55
ISD: intersection sight distance (ft) 225 280 335 390 445 500 555 610
Based on the equation below
 
         (f)   Table definitions and calculations. Based on AASHTO - Geometric
Design of Highways and Streets (2004) and IDOT BLR §§ 28 and 36:
            1.   Intersection sight distance (ISD) = Design speed (mph) x 1.47
x time gap (sec);
            2.   Intersection sight distance (ISD) - length of the leg of the
sight triangle along the major roadway (feet);
            3.   Design speed of the major roadway (typically 5 mph over the
posted speed limit);
            4.   1.47 - conversion from mph to fps; and
            5.   Time gap is (7.5 sec - passenger car; 9.5 sec - single-unit
truck; 11.5 sec - tractor/semitrailer) for a turning vehicle to enter a two-
lane major road without a median from a minor road with 3% or less grade. If
the major road is multi-lane or has a median, add 0.5 sec per additional 12
feet crossed to turn left. If the minor road grade is >3%, add 0.2 sec per
percent grade above.
      (3)   Right out only, stop control: the sight triangle for a stop
controlled intersection with only right turns allowed from the minor road shall
be based on
Figure 3 and
Table 3.
         (a)   Figure 3. Right turners looking left.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4645.png]
 
         (b)   Figure definitions and calculations. d = Distance from the edge
of nearest through lane to the decision point; 18 feet preferred, 14.5 feet
minimum (AASHTO 2004). Use 15 feet unless otherwise approved by the Village
Engineer.
         (c)   Table 3.
 
Table 3. Intersection Sight Distance for Passenger Cars at Right Out
Only -
Right turners looking left
Design speed of major road (mph)      20  25  30  35  40  45  50  55
ISD: intersection sight distance (ft) 195 240 290 335 385 430 480 530
Based on the equation below
 
         (d)   Table definitions and calculations. Based on AASHTO - Geometric
Design of Highways and Streets (2004) and IDOT BLR §§ 28 and 36:
            1.   Intersection sight distance (ISD) = Design speed (mph) x 1.47
x time gap (sec);
            2.   Intersection sight distance (ISD) - length of the leg of the
sight triangle along the major roadway (feet);
            3.   Design speed of the major roadway (typically five mph over the
posted speed limit);
            4.   1.47 - conversion from mph to fps; and
            5.   Time gap is (6.5 sec - passenger car; 8.5 sec - single-unit
truck; 10.5 sec - tractor/semitrailer) for a turning vehicle to turn right from
a minor road with 3% or less grade. If the minor road grade is >3%, add 0.2 sec
per percent grade above three.
      (4)   All-way stop control: the first stopped vehicle on one approach
should be visible to the drivers of the first stopped vehicles on each of the
other approaches.
   (D)   Traffic signal controlled intersections. The sight triangles for a
traffic signal controlled intersection shall be described by the following
conditions at each approach;
      (1)   Signals with off peak or night time flash operations shall follow
the criteria for two-way stop sign control on the red flashing approaches
(Figures
1 and
2 and Tables
1 and
2 ).
      (2)   Signal approaches with right turns on red allowed that are not
defined by IIA shall follow the criteria for right out only, stop control (
Figure 3 and
Table 3).
      (3)   Signal approaches not described by the conditions in either IIA or
IIB shall use an intersection sight distance based on all-way stop control
(ID).
   (E)   Yield controlled intersections. The sight triangles for a yield
controlled intersection shall be described by the following conditions at each
approach. Please note this information is referenced from the Guide for the
Development of Bicycle Facilities, AASHTO, Fourth Edition, 2012.
      (1)   Intersections that are not controlled by stop signs or signals are
to be considered as yield-controlled intersections.
      (2)   For yield-controlled intersections between multi-use paths and
roadways use, the following figures/tables to calculate the appropriate sight
triangles. Approach sight triangles depend on the design speeds of both the
path and the roadway. If yield control is to be used for either approach, it is
desirable that available sight distance be adequate for a traveler on the
yield-controlled approach to slow, stop and to avoid a traveler on the other
approach. The roadway leg of the sight triangle is based on bicyclists’ ability
to reach and cross the roadway if they do not see a potentially conflicting
vehicle approaching the roadway, and have just passed the point where they can
execute a stop without entering the intersection. Figure 5-15, Table 5-7 (For
Roadway Leg) and Table 5-8 (For Path Leg) below shall be used for this
condition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4647.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4649.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4651.png]
 
      (3)   For an uncontrolled intersection of a shared use path with a
walkway (i.e., under yield control), a clear sight triangle extending at least
15 feet along the walkway should be provided. (See Figure 5-16 below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4653.png]
 
      (4)   If a shared use path intersects with another shared use path, sight
triangles should be provided similar to a yield condition at a path-roadway
intersection. However, both legs of the sight triangle should be based on the
stopping sight distance of the paths. Use the equation in Table 5-7 above for
both legs of the sight triangle.
(Prior Code, § 159.014) (Ord. 15-1229, passed 11-18-2015)
§ 157.022 ACCESSORY STRUCTURE TABLE.
STRUCTURE Front Corner Rear Side  STRUCTURE Front Corner
OR USE    Yard  Side   Yard Yard  OR USE    Yard  Side Yard Rear Yard Side Yard
                Yard
                                                             Front Corner Rear Side                                                                    Front Corner Rear Side
STRUCTURE OR USE                                             Yard  Side   Yard Yard  STRUCTURE OR USE                                                  Yard  Side   Yard Yard
                                                                   Yard                                                                                      Yard
Air conditioner condenser unit, window units                 P     P      P    P     Gazebos and pergolas                                                           P
Animal houses, for domestic animals, not to exceed 16 square              P          Greenhouse, private in accordance with §                                      P
feet in area and 4 feet in height                                                    157.027
Antenna, freestanding, for noncommercial purposes                         P          Lamp posts                                                        P     P      P    P
Arbors, trellises                                            P     P      P    P     Landscaping                                                       P     P      P    P
Architectural ornamentation, e.g. sills, belt courses,       P     P      P    P     Laundry drying (clotheslines)                                                  P
cornices
Awnings and canopies, projecting no more than 48 inches from P     P      P    P     Lawn and garden ornaments, sculpture and statuary less than 3     P     P      P    P
the structure                                                                        feet in height, and garden furniture
Balconies, projecting no more than 60 inches from the        P     P      P          Outdoor storage, in industrial districts in accordance with §                 P    P
structure but not less than 5 feet from any property line                            157.102(F)
Barbeque grills, in-ground                                                P          Outdoor storage of firewood                                                    P    P
                                                                                     Parking or storing of trucks in accordance with §§ 158.026 and
Basketball backboards, located no less than 6 feet from any                          157.120 through
public sidewalk and 5 feet from any lot line                 P     P      P    P     157.126 and                                                                    P    P
                                                                                     157.140 through
                                                                                     157.144
                                                                                     Parking spaces and aisles, loading berths, except covered or
                                                                                     enclosed, in accordance with §§
Bay windows, having no foundation and projecting no more                             157.026 and
than 36 inches from the structure                            P     P      P    P     157.120 through                                                   P     P      P    P
                                                                                     157.126 and
                                                                                     157.140 through
                                                                                     157.144
Cabanas                                                                   P          Patio, open to the sky                                                         P*   P
Carport, permanent structure attached to the principal                               Patio, permanently roofed-over                                                 P
structure
Children’s playhouse, not to exceed 40 square feet in area              P          Porches, projecting no more than 8 feet from the structure and    P     P      P    P
                                                                                     not less than 5 feet from any property line
Chimneys, having no foundation and projecting no more than   P     P      P    P     Portico-chere, projecting no more than 14 feet from the structure P     P      P    P
30 inches from the structure
Decks, level with main floor of home, 36 inches or taller                            Public telephones, menu boards and ATMs, except covered or
projecting no more than 12 feet from the structure.                       P*         enclosed, on a commercial or industrial lot and located not less  P     P      P    P
                                                                                     than 10 feet from any property line
Decks, open to the sky and 36 inches or taller as measured                P          Rain barrels or rain garden                                                    P    P
under the deck
Decks, open to the sky and less than 36 inches above the                  P*   P     Recreational equipment, e.g., childrens’ swing set                           P
ground as measured under the deck
Decks, permanently roofed-over                                            P          Satellite antennas, freestanding in accordance with §                  P      P    P
                                                                                     157.027
Dog runs, open to the sky and not to exceed 32 square feet                           Signs and nameplates, in accordance with §§
in area                                                                   P          157.155 through                                                   P     P      P    P
                                                                                     157.167
Driveways and walkways                                       P     P      P    P     Solar energy devices, attached                                    P     P      P    P
Eaves and gutters, projecting no more than 36 inches from    P     P      P    P     Solar energy devices, detached                                                 P
the structure
Fall-out, storm shelters, attached or detached, above or                  P          Steps, at, above or below the first-floor level                   P     P      P    P
below grade
                                                                                     Storing or parking of boats, trailers, campers and recreational
                                                                                     vehicles in accordance with §§
                                                                                     157.026 and
Fences and walls, 3 feet or less in height                   P     P      P    P     157.120 through                                                                P    P
                                                                                     157.126 and
                                                                                     157.140 through
                                                                                     157.144
                                                                                     Swimming pools, hot tubs, Jaccuzi and outdoor spas in accordance
Fences and walls, more than 3 feet in height                              P          with §                                                                        P
                                                                                     157.027
Fire escapes, open to the elements and projecting no more    P     P      P    P     Tennis, basketball courts                                                      P
than 5 feet from the structure
Fireplace, outdoor                                                        P          Terraces, not more than 4 feet above level of adjoining ground    P     P      P    P
Flag poles, the height of which shall not exceed the                                 Tool, garden shed or similar buildings or structures for domestic
distance from any lot line                                   P     P      P    P     storage purposes in accordance with §                                         P
                                                                                     157.027
Garages, detached permanent structure in accordance with §               P          Trash receptacles and enclosures                                               P    P
157.027
Garden ponds, fountains, statuary and sculpture greater than              P          Utility meters, distribution boxes, pedestals and other           P     P      P    P
3 feet in height, artificial landscaping                                             aboveground appurtenances
Notes to Table:
 
Where “P” indicates accessory structure or use is a permitted yard obstruction in the indicated yard as defined in this section.
Where “*” indicates that decks and concrete patios that are attached to the primary structure are allowed to encroach into the rear building setback.
Accessory structures and uses not listed in this table shall be considered as prohibited yard obstructions. Accessory structures and uses listed in this table shall conform
to the bulk regulations in §
157.027 unless otherwise specified in this table.
 
(Prior Code, § 159.015) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 09-0800, passed
12-16-2009; Ord. 22-1794, passed 9-21-2022)
§ 157.023 LOT AREA AND DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   When two or more parcels of land, each of which lacks adequate area
and dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the use
district in which they are located, are contiguous and are held in one
ownership, they shall be used as one zoning lot for the use.
   (B)   Any single lot or parcel of land held in one ownership which was of
record at the time of adoption of this chapter, that does not meet the
requirements for minimum lot width and area, may be utilized for a permitted
use; provided that yards, courts or usable open spaces are not less than 75% of
the minimum required dimensions or area, except as provided in §
157.187.
(Prior Code, § 159.016) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022)
§ 157.024 STREET ACCESS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, every residential
building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot, or parcel of land which
abuts upon a street unless a permanent easement of access to a street was of
record prior to the adoption of this chapter.
      (1)   All residential property shall have only one point of ingress/
egress to and from the property into the public right-of-way. In the situation
of a corner lot having an existing driveway, upon the establishment of another
driveway with the approval and acceptance by the Building Inspector, the
property owner shall remove the original driveway access to the opposite street
and replace with seed or sod.
      (2)   Exception shall be where the lot width exceeds 100 feet across the
frontage of the property where the owner may provide a horseshoe type of
driveway.
   (B)   Access for all business and manufacturing buildings shall be similar
to division (A) above, and shall also be subject to the full requirements of
ingress and egress onto streets as so outlined within §§
157.095 through
157.100 and
157.102 through
157.105.
(Prior Code, § 159.017) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.025 NUMBER OF BUILDINGS PER LOT.
   Except in the case of a planned development, not more than one principal
detached building shall be located on a zoning lot, nor shall a principal
detached building be located on the same zoning lot with any other principal
building.
(Prior Code, § 159.018) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.026 PARKING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Residential districts. The parking of vehicles in all residential
districts shall comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be parked between the street and the front lot
line, nor in any area other than upon an approved parking area. The parking of
vehicles shall be limited to vehicles of the first division (as defined in the
Illinois Motor Vehicles Code); vehicles of the second division having a gross
vehicle weight, including vehicle and attached equipment and maximum load, of
8,000 pounds or less; and vehicles registered as recreational vehicles of
10,000 pounds or less.
      (2)   No inoperative or partially dismantled vehicle shall be permitted
on any residential property, unless it is within an enclosed garage.
      (3)   No vehicle used for transporting flammable liquids, explosives,
toxic or noxious materials shall be parked or stored in any residential
district.
      (4)   Nothing in the provisions of this section shall be construed to
prohibit trucks or other service vehicles from being parked temporarily for
purposes of making deliveries or rendering service to the property owner.
   (B)   Business districts. The parking of vehicles in all business districts
is accessory to a principal structure and shall comply with the provisions of
§§
157.120 through
157.126, and with the following additional regulations.
      (1)   The parking regulations for residential uses within a business
district are the same as those in the residential district.
      (2)   The outside parking or storage of any abandoned, damaged,
inoperable, dismantled or unregistered vehicle shall be prohibited in any
business district except upon those properties for which that use has been
established by this chapter.
      (3)   No vehicle used for transporting flammable liquids, explosives,
toxic or noxious materials shall be parked or stored in any residential
district.
      (4)   Nothing in the provisions of this section shall be construed to
prohibit trucks or other service vehicles from being parked temporarily for
purposes of making deliveries or rendering service to the property owner.
   (C)   Trailers, boats and recreational vehicles. The parking of these
vehicles shall comply with the provisions of §§
157.120 through
157.126, and with the following additional regulations.
      (1)   Trailers of any type, herein defined, shall not be permanently
affixed to the ground as a principal or accessory structure on a lot in any
district.
      (2)   Travel, camping trailers or recreational vehicles of any type (not
inclusive of boats, see below) shall not be parked or stored on any lot other
than in a lawfully-established travel camp or trailer sales or manufacturing
establishment; except that in a residential district, one travel trailer,
camping trailer or recreational vehicle may be stored on a lot containing a
dwelling unit; provided further that no major repair, disassembly or rebuilding
operations are conducted thereon; not more than one travel, camping trailer or
recreational vehicle may be parked or stored in the open lot in a residential
district; provided that it shall not be located within a required front or side
yard setback for that district. In the event the trailer cannot be located
within the rear yard area, it may be located within the required front or side
yard, but the travel, camping trailer or recreational trailer when stored in
the front, side or rear of the property, shall be located upon a properly
maintained hard surface capable of supporting the weight of the vehicle, as
approved by the Zoning Administrator and/or code enforcement officer.
      (3)   Parking and use of trailers for temporary offices or storage uses
shall be permitted provided that a permit has been issued by the Zoning
Administrator, and when such use is incidental to and only for the period of
time for the construction of the principal building. The trailer(s) must be
located on the same or contiguous lot as the building being constructed.
      (4)   Boats may be parked or stored in the open when in the operation of
a lawfully established principal use, and one boat may be stored or parked on a
lot containing a dwelling unit; provided the boat shall not be parked or stored
within a required front or side yard setback for the district, and provided
further that no major repair, disassembly or rebuilding operations are
conducted thereon. In the event the boat cannot be located within a rear yard
area, it may be located within the required front or side yard, but the boat
when stored in the front, side or rear of the property, shall be located upon a
properly maintained hard surface capable of supporting the weight of the
vehicle, as approved by the Zoning Administrator and/or code enforcement
officer.
      (5)   Trailers, boats and recreational vehicles shall not be converted
and used for the storage of any household items.
      (6)   Amortization of all existing trailers, camping trailers, boats and
recreational vehicles in violation of the regulations herein and shall be
brought into conformance with all applicable regulations of this chapter within
six months after notification of any violation.
   (D)   Temporary portable storage units. The use of temporary portable
storage units, as defined in §
157.003, is allowed for periods less than 72 hours in conjunction with a move
or a remodel, and shall comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   Temporary portable storage units shall not be placed on village-
owned property or public right-of-way.
      (2)   Temporary portable storage units shall be placed only on hard
surfaces, such as asphalt or concrete.
      (3)   Temporary portable storage units shall not obstruct vision or be
placed with the sight triangle, as defined in §
157.003.
      (4)   No more than one temporary portable storage unit may be placed on
any residentially zoned property at any one time.
      (5)   Temporary portable storage units may be placed on a specific lot on
not more than three occasions in any six-month period.
(Prior Code, § 159.019) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.027 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES OR USE.
   No accessory structure or use, as defined herein, shall hereafter be built,
moved or remodeled, established, altered or enlarged unless such accessory
structure or use is permitted by the ordinance. Accessory uses are permitted in
any zoning district in connection with any principal use which is permitted
within such district.
   (A)   Accessory use limitations and conditions. Each accessory structure and
use shall comply with the applicable use limitations in the zoning district in
which it is located and, in addition to the following.
      (1)   Where an accessory structure is attached to the principal building,
it shall be subject to and must conform to all regulations of this ordinance
and other applicable ordinances of the village, i.e., fire prevention code
(Chapter 91) and building code (Chapter 150).
      (2)   No accessory structure or use shall be constructed, occupied or
established on any lot prior to the completion of the principal structure to
which it is accessory.
      (3)   No accessory structure or use shall be permitted in any yard unless
it is a permitted yard obstruction as provided in §
157.022.
      (4)   Outdoor storage, where permitted, shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to prevent the over-growth of weeds, grasses and other obnoxious
plant material, and the harboring of rodents and other animal and insect pests.
      (5)   Buildings and structures essential, incidental or customary to the
pursuit of agriculture are exempt from the requirements of this section.
      (6)   On a corner lot occupied by a principal residential structure that
is legally nonconforming with respect to the corner side yard set-backs,
accessory uses and structures may be located in said corner side yard provided
they maintain the same setback as the principal residential structure.
      (7)   The square foot area of all accessory buildings and structures,
above grade level, shall be counted as part of the percentage of the total lot
coverage as permitted in each zoning district. This shall include, but is not
limited to, decks, sheds, detached garages and swimming pools as defined in
this section.
      (8)   Except as permitted herein, accessory buildings or structures shall
not be used for the keeping of livestock, poultry or rabbits, whether or not
for pecuniary gain unless the buildings and structures are located 50 feet from
side and rear lot lines, and there shall be not more than one livestock for
each 20,000 square feet of lot area with a minimum lot area of one acre.
   (B)   Permitted yard obstructions.
      (1)   (a)   No accessory structures and uses, except those which are
permitted as obstructions in yards as indicated in §
157.022, shall be established, constructed or altered in, or moved to any yard.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
            FRONT YARD. The open space on a lot between the front lot line and
all of the vertical planes forming the front elevation of the principal
structure.
            REAR YARD. The open space on a lot between the rear lot line and
all of the vertical planes forming the rear elevation of the principal
structure, but excluding any corner side yard.
            SIDE YARD. The open space on a lot between the side lot line and
the vertical plane(s) forming the side elevation of the principal structure
closest to the side lot line, but excluding any rear or front yard.
            CORNER SIDE YARD. The open space on a lot between the corner side
lot line and the vertical plane forming the side wall(s) of the principal
structure closest to the corner side lot line, but excluding any rear or front
yards.
   (C)   Location and height. All accessory structures and uses, permitted as
obstructions in yards, as indicated in §
157.022, shall comply with the following requirements, unless provided
otherwise in this chapter.
      (1)   No accessory structure or use except fences shall be constructed,
occupied or established on any public utility, drainage or pipeline easement,
except with the written permission of all utility companies and the village
having rights to use the easement.
      (2)   No detached accessory structure, building or use, except fences and
hedges, patios, walkways, driveways, hot tubs or pergolas hereafter erected or
altered shall be located less than ten feet from the principal building on the
lot, or less than five feet from any other accessory structure on the lot.
      (3)   All accessory structures, buildings and uses, except fences,
hedges, driveways and walkways hereafter erected or altered shall be set back a
minimum of five feet from the side lot line, ten feet from the rear lot line
and shall not be located in the required front or corner side yard setbacks,
except as permitted in §
157.022. Except in the area zoned R-5A, an accessory structure may have a seven
foot setback from the rear lot line.
      (4)   Detached accessory buildings or structures in residential districts
shall not exceed one story in height. The total height of accessory buildings
or structures shall not exceed 15 feet from the accessory structure pad to the
ridge of the accessory structure, nor shall the height between the ground floor
pad to the top of the finished wall exceed nine feet in height. Garage door
height shall not exceed eight feet in height as measured form the floor pad of
the garage.
   (D)   Time of construction. No accessory building, structure and/or use
shall be constructed on any lot prior to the start of construction of the
principal building to which it is an accessory.
   (E)   Use restrictions. Except as herein permitted for a specific permitted
use, accessory buildings or structures shall not be used for the keeping of
livestock, poultry or rabbits, whether or not for profit unless the buildings
or structures are located 50 feet from side or rear lot lines, and there shall
be not more than one livestock for each 20,000 square feet of lot area with a
minimum lot area of one acre.
   (F)   Types of buildings, structures and/or uses.
      (1)   Tents. Tents are temporary structures and shall not be erected,
used or maintained on any lot, except as provided herein.
         (a)   Temporary use of tents in residential districts is permitted for
domestic recreational purposes subject to the following conditions:
            1.   That the tent is located on the same zoning lot as the
principal structure;
            2.   That the tent shall comply with the yard and setback
requirements of the district in which it is located;
            3.   That the tent shall be up for no more than 15 consecutive days
and no more than three occurrences in a calendar year; and
            4.   Tents in residential districts shall not be used for outdoor
storage.
         (b)   Temporary use of tents in commercial and industrial districts is
permitted subject to the following conditions:
            1.   That the tent is incidental to the business(es) located on the
lot;
            2.   That the tent is used in conjunction with a special event or
promotion by the business(es) on the lot;
            3.   That the tent is used adjacent an entrance of said business
(es);
            4.   That the use of a tent occurs for a period not to exceed three
consecutive days;
            5.   That not more than two such events shall be permitted on a lot
during a calendar year; and
            6.   That a personal property sales permit for a tent sale shall be
obtained prior to erecting a tent.
         (c)   Temporary use of tents for religious, amusement or recreation
purposes is permitted provided tents used for such purposes shall not:
            1.   Be used for a period to exceed one week;
            2.   Occur on a lot that will pose a safety hazard to pedestrians
and motorists or interfere with the use and privacy of adjacent property; and
            3.   Be located in any residential district, except on park, church
or school property, and shall comply with the yard requirements of the district
in which it is located.
      (2)   Contractor’s equipment. Contractor’s equipment, supplies or tools
shall not be stored on any lot, unless the equipment, supplies or tools are
wholly enclosed within a building or vehicle. The use of storage containers to
store contractor equipment shall be permitted solely on a lot with a valid
building permit on which construction is taking place.
      (3)   Satellite television antenna, satellite dish, television, citizen
band and amateur radio antennas.
         (a)   In residential districts, no antenna or satellite dish shall be
located in any front yard.
         (b)   In business, office or manufacturing districts, no antenna or
satellite dish shall be located in any front yard, and in all cases must be
located in conformance with the setback requirements for accessory structures
of the applicable zoning district.
         (c)   All parts of an antenna or dish shall be located at least five
feet from any side or rear lot line in residential districts, and at least ten
feet from any side or rear lot line in business, office or manufacturing
districts.
         (d)   In residential districts, satellite antenna or dishes shall not
be located more than 15 feet above grade, and shall not exceed eight feet in
overall diameter. In all business districts, satellite antennas or dishes shall
not exceed 15 feet in overall diameter.
            1.   New technology has added satellite dishes/antennas that are 18
inches or less in size and are permissible within the side and rear yard
setbacks, but not beyond the front edge of the principal building or structure.
            2.   If the satellite dish/ antenna is less than 24 inches in
diameter, a permit for installation is not required, if it is greater than this
size a building permit must be obtained from the village as described herein.
            3.   The small dish may be secured to the roof in accordance with
the manufacturer specifications and local building code; provided that the
overall height of the dish/antenna does not extend beyond the maximum height of
the roof peak causing the dish/antenna to be visible from the public street.
      (4)   Residential driveways and curb cuts. All driveways in residentially
zoned districts shall comply with the following.
         (a)   Driveways shall be concrete or asphalt and shall conform with
the building requirements in
Chapter 150.
         (b)   The maximum width of the curb cut in residential district shall
be 25 feet.
         (c)   The minimum width of a driveway shall be nine feet.
         (d)   Shared driveways between two properties are permitted in the R-
5A Zoning District with the prior recording of a cross access easement against
both properties.
      (5)   Private/public swimming pools. As used in this section, SWIMMING
POOL means an outdoor artificial basin for holding water that is constructed,
modified, improved or installed in or above the ground of private residential
property for the purpose of swimming or wading and that is capable of having a
depth of 24 inches or more covering more than 25 square feet or that has a
capacity of more than 200 gallons of water.
         (a)   No swimming pool, as defined herein, shall be permitted on a lot
unless the pool has a protective fence with a locking ladder attached to it, or
the yard in which the pool is located is completely enclosed by a fence not
less than four feet in height.
         (b)   No swimming pool shall be located less than ten feet from any
overhead utility line or less than five feet from any buried electric,
telephone or cable television line.
         (c)   All swimming pools shall be equipped to be completely emptied of
water, and the discharge shall be disposed of in such a manner that will not
create a public nuisance in the street or on adjoining property.
      (6)   Sheds. All permanent structure sheds shall comply with the
following.
         (a)   The maximum size of a permanent structure shed is 180 square
feet.
         (b)   Permanent structure sheds must be affixed to a concrete slab,
designed per the building regulations in
Chapter 150.
         (c)   A maximum of one permanent structure shed is allowed per
individual zoning lot.
         (d)   A resin/plastic shed, that is 64 square feet or less, shall not
be considered a permanent structure shed under this section. Such a shed must
only meet the side and rear accessory structure setback and not be located in
an easement.
      (7)   Yard lamps. Outdoor yard lamps, gas or electric are permissible
provided that the following is adhered to:
         (a)   Lamp must be located a minimum of six feet from the back side of
the public side walk;
         (b)   Have a low intensity luminaire as to not interfere or cast light
onto adjacent properties or into the street; and
         (c)   The yard lamp must be placed within a concrete foundation, with
a bulb height not in excess of six feet.
      (8)   Wooden decks and patios.
         (a)   Wooden decks shall be installed in accordance with all
applicable building codes and standard specifications of the village per
Chapter 150.
            1.   All wooden decks shall be placed on concrete footings.
            2.   All wooden decks shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator
for lot coverage.
            3.   All wooden decks not exceeding 100 square feet in size in R-
5 and R-6 Zoning Districts will be allowed to exceed the maximum impervious lot
coverage of 50%; provided that no other accessory structure is currently
located or being proposed to be located in the rear yard of a lot and provided
that the total lot coverage after the proposed deck is no more than 65%. The
deck shall be constructed on gravel four inches thick. No deck shall be
permitted within a required yard setback or any easement of any kind.
         (b)   Concrete patios and walkways shall be installed in accordance
with all applicable building codes and standard specifications of the village
per
Chapter 150.
            1.   All concrete walkways shall be a maximum of five feet wide.
Any concrete structure wider than five shall be considered a patio.
            2.   All concrete patios and walkways are included in the overall
lot coverage calculations of the property and shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
            3.   No concrete walkway or patio shall inhibit or alter drainage
(i.e., flow of stormwater or surface water) through drainage ditches or over
public utility and/or drainage easements. The village has the right to review
any and all installations to evaluate any impact to drainage.
         (c)   Brick patios and walkways shall be installed in accordance with
all applicable building codes and standard specifications of the village.
            1.   All brick patios and walkways are included in the overall lot
coverage of the property and shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
            2.   Decorative patio stone or block under 100 square feet in area
does not require a permit. Patio stone or blocks are included in the overall
lot coverage.
      (9)   Garage, private. A single garage structure, housing all permitted
vehicle stalls, may be built into the principal building, attached to the
principal building or provided for in a detached garage as a freestanding
permanent accessory structure, but the permitted vehicle stalls shall not be
split between any of the above. The maximum permitted number of vehicle stalls
shall not exceed three vehicle stalls. The minimum vehicle stall size inside of
a garage shall not be less than ten feet in width and 20 feet in length, nor
shall the stall size exceed 12 feet in width or 24 feet in length, of clear
space inside of supporting walls or partitions. The minimum clear ceiling
height shall be a minimum of seven feet. Additional storage areas may be
included within a garage provided the storage area does not exceed five feet in
width and 120 square feet in area. Height of all motor vehicle garage doors
shall not exceed eight feet in height from the garage pad. The use of temporary
structures as a garage or carport is strictly prohibited.
         (a)   The number of garage stalls will only be allowed if the
following criteria are met:
            1.   Four thousand to 7,500 square feet of lot area may have up to
two stalls; and
            2.   Seven thousand five hundred and one and greater square feet of
lot area may have up to three stalls.
         (b)   All garages must have a driveway connecting the garage to the
street. The driveway must be asphalt or concrete and a minimum of nine feet
wide in accordance with this section and with all applicable building codes and
standard specifications of the village per
Chapter 150.
         (c)   For any lot within the R-5A Zoning District, conversion of an
existing attached garage into living area is permitted with the following
conditions.
            1.   If a detached garage is being proposed on a lot with an
existing attached garage, the attached garage must be converted to living space
so that there is only one garage remaining on the property. Permits for both
the detached garage and attached garage conversion can be issued
simultaneously.
            2.   If a detached garage is being proposed on a lot with an
existing attached garage and requires a new driveway, the existing driveway
shall also be removed so that there is only one driveway remaining on the
property.
            3.   Conversion of attached garages to living space in any zoning
district other than R-5A is strictly prohibited.
         (d)   Carports. Carports are permanent structures with a roof and two
or more sides open, attached to the principal structure. After January 1, 2023,
no new carport structures shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 159.020) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 07-0550, passed
7-18-2007; Ord. 07-0551, passed 7-18-2007; Ord. 07-0552, passed 7-18-2007; Ord.
07-0553, passed 7-18-2007; Ord. 16-1306, passed 9-7-2016; Ord. 17-1348, passed
2-1-2017; Ord. 22-1794, passed 9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.028 PERSONAL COMMUNICATION FACILITY.
   (A)   Special use permit required. No person shall establish, construct,
maintain or operate a personal communication facility without first obtaining a
special use permit authorized and issue by the Village Board in accordance with
the standards and procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a comprehensive
set of regulations pertaining to the location, siting, development, design and
permitting of personal communication facilities for all districts in the
village in order to:
      (1)   Facilitate the development of wireless communications
infrastructure in the village for commercial, public and emergency uses;
      (2)   Encourage the collocation of personal communication facilities;
      (3)   Encourage users of personal communication facilities to configure
them in a manner which minimizes the adverse visual impact of such facilities;
      (4)   Enhance the ability of the providers of wireless communications
services to provide such services to the community quickly, efficiently and
effectively;
      (5)   Establish the rules and procedures for approving zoning
applications for personal communications facilities; and
      (6)   Minimize the total number of personal communications facilities in
the village.
   (C)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply to all personal
communications facilities, whether such facilities are used as a principal use
or as an accessory use unless otherwise exempted from these regulations.
      (1)   Pre-existing towers or antennas. Towers and antennas existing on
the date this section is adopted shall not be required to meet the requirements
of this section other than the requirements of divisions (F)(8) and (G) below.
      (2)   AM array. For purposes of implementing this section, an AM array,
consisting of one or more towers united and supporting a ground system which
functions as one AM broadcasting antenna, shall be considered one tower.
Measurements for setbacks and separation distances shall be measured from the
outer perimeter of the towers including the AM array. Additional towers may be
added within the perimeter of the AM array by right.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following uses and activities are exempt from the
regulations of this section:
      (1)   Satellite dishes 40 inches or less in diameter or diagonal
measurement;
      (2)   Existing towers and antennae and any repair, reconstruction or
maintenance of these facilities which do not create a significant change in
visual impact;
      (3)   Any tower or installation of any antenna which is owned and
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator as part of the
amateur radio service, citizens band radio or is used exclusively for receive-
only antennae;
      (4)   Antennae and equipment and other apparatus completely located
within an existing structure whose purpose is to enhance or facilitate
communication function of other structures on the site;
      (5)   Personal communication facilities located on property owned, leased
or otherwise controlled by the village or other government entity. Provided the
lease or license authorizing such personal communication facility has been
approved by the appropriate governing board and that the facility incorporates
a monopole design. These facilities shall be for government purposes and uses.
They shall not be for commercial use; and
      (6)   Antennas not attached to a tower and incorporating stealth design
amateur radio operation/receive only antennas. This section shall not govern
any towers or the installation of any antenna that is 50 feet or less in height
and is owned and operated by a federally-licensed amateur radio station
operator or is used exclusively for receive-only antennas. No receive-only
antennas shall exceed the highest point on the nearest residential rooftop of a
dwelling by more than ten feet.
   (E)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANCILLARY BUILDING. The building(s), cabinets(s), vault(s), closure(s)
and equipment required for operation of telecommunication systems, including,
but not limited to, repeaters, equipment housing, relay equipment, ventilation
and other electrical and mechanical equipment.
      ANTENNA. A device commonly in the form of a metal rod, wire panel or dish
for transmitting or receiving electromagnetic radiation. An ANTENNA is
typically mounted on a supporting tower, pole, mast, building or other
structure.
      COLLOCATION. The placement of two or more antenna systems or platforms by
separate FCC license holders on a structure such as a support structure,
building, water tank or utility pole.
      GUYED TOWER. A tower which is supported by the use of cables (guy wires)
which are permanently anchored.
      LATTICE TOWER. A tower characterized by an open framework of lateral
cross members, which stabilize the tower.
      MAST. A vertical element consisting of a tube or rod which supports an
antenna.
      MONOPOLE. A single upright pole engineered to be self-supporting that
does not require lateral cross supports or guys.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES. Commercial mobile services, unlicensed
wireless services and common carrier wireless exchange access services.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES. Facilities for the provision of
personal wireless services.
      STEALTH DESIGN. A personal wireless service facility that is designed or
located in such a way that the antennas and/or towers are camouflaged,
concealed, disguised and otherwise not readily recognizable as
telecommunications equipment. Examples of STEALTH DESIGN include concealing
antenna in clock-towers, bell steeples, on light poles and integrating antenna
into architectural elements on buildings by color, shape or location on the
building.
      TOWER. A vertical framework of cross elements which supports either an
antenna, mast or both.
      UNLICENSED WIRELESS SERVICE. The offering of telecommunications services
using duly authorized devices which do not require individual licenses issued
by the FCC, but does not mean the provision of direct-to-home satellite
services as defined by the FCC.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. An unstaffed facility for the
transmission or reception of radio frequency (RF) signals, usually consisting
of an equipment shelter, cabinet or other enclosed structure containing
electronic equipment, a support structure, antennas or other transmission and
reception devices. Amateur radio facilities and facilities used exclusively for
the transmission of television and radio signals are not considered WIRELESS
COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY, ATTACHED. A wireless communication
facility that is affixed to an existing structure, e.g., an existing building
wall or roof, mechanical equipment, tower or pole, water tank, utility pole or
light pole, that does not include an additional wireless communication support
structure.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new structure, tower, pole or
mass erected to support wireless communication antennas and connecting
appurtenances. Support structure types include, but are not limited to,
monopoles, lattice towers, wood poles and guyed towers.
   (F)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Equipment. Mobile or immobile equipment not used in direct support
of a personal wireless service facility shall not be stored or parked on the
site of a personal wireless service facility unless repairs to such facility
are being made. Back-up generators shall be operated only during power outages
and for testing and maintenance purposes. Noise attenuation measures shall be
included to reduce noise levels. Testing and maintenance of generators shall
occur only on weekdays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
      (2)   Lighting. No signals or lights or illumination shall be permitted
on a personal wireless service facility, unless required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or
the village. If illumination is required, the illumination alternative and
design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the surrounding views.
      (3)   Signs. No personal wireless service facility shall be used or serve
as a sign or bear any advertising emblem or logo other than the name of the
manufacturer or provider in letters or graphics not to exceed four inches in
height, unless otherwise required by the FCC.
      (4)   Aesthetics. The aesthetic standards for towers vary depending on
the height. The height categories are zero to 40 feet, 41 to 80 feet and 81 to
120 feet. No tower may exceed 120 feet in height. Towers and antennas shall
comply with the following requirements for each category.
         (a)   For towers zero to 40 feet tall, the following standards apply:
all towers shall be totally screened or incorporate stealth design.
         (b)   For towers 41 to 80 feet tall, the following standards apply.
            1.   Towers shall, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA,
be painted a neutral color so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
            2.   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related
structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures,
screening and landscaping that will blend them into the natural settings and
surrounding buildings.
            3.   Lattice towers are prohibited. Guy wires are prohibited.
Towers must be a monopole design.
         (c)   For towers 81 to 120 feet, the following standards shall apply.
            1.   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or
subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so
as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
            2.   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related
structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures,
screening and landscaping that will blend them into the natural settings and
surrounding buildings.
            3.   Lattice towers are prohibited. Guy wires are prohibited.
Towers must be a monopole design.
         (d)   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower,
the antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a
neutral color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of
the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
      (5)   Antennas on existing structures. Any antenna which is not attached
to a tower may be approved by the village as an accessory use to any
commercial, industrial, professional, institutional or multi-family structure
of 24 or more dwelling units; provided the following apply.
         (a)   The antenna does not extend more than 30 feet above the highest
point of the structure.
         (b)   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations.
         (c)   The antenna complies with all applicable building codes and
safety standards as referenced in division (F)(7) below.
         (d)   The antenna utilizes stealth design.
      (6)   Antennas on existing towers. An antenna which is attached to an
existing tower may be approved by the village. Also, to minimize adverse visual
impacts associated with the proliferation and clustering of towers, collocation
of antennas by more than one carrier on existing towers shall take precedence
over the construction of new towers; provided such collocation is accomplished
in a manner consistent with the following.
         (a)   Modified tower. A tower which is modified or reconstructed to
accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna shall be of the same tower
type as the existing tower, unless the village allows reconstruction as a
monopole.
         (b)   Height.
            1.   An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a taller
height, not to exceed 30 feet over the tower’s existing height, to accommodate
the collocation of an additional antenna and such height not exceeding 150 feet
in total.
            2.   The height change referred to in this division may only occur
one time per communication tower.
            3.   The additional height referred to in this division (F)(6)
shall not require a distance separation. The tower’s pre-modification height
shall be used to calculate such distance separations.
         (c)   On-site location.
            1.   A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the collocation
of additional antenna may be moved onsite within 50 feet of its existing
location.
            2.   After the tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation, only
one tower may remain on the site.
            3.   A relocated on-site tower shall continue to be measured from
the original tower location for purposes of calculating separation distances
between towers. The relocation of tower hereunder shall in no way be deemed to
cause a violation of this section.
      (7)   Building codes/safety standards. To ensure the structural integrity
of towers, the owner of the tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with standards contained in the current and applicable state and
local building codes and the applicable standards to towers that are published
by the Electronic Industry Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon
inspection, the village concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes
and standards and constitutes danger to person or property, then, upon notice
being provided to the owner of the tower, the owner shall have 30 days to bring
such tower into compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such tower
into compliance within 30-day period shall constitute grounds for removal of
the tower or antenna at the owner’s expense.
      (8)   Franchises. Owners and/or operators of towers or antennas shall
certify that all franchises required by law for the construction and/or
operation of a wireless communications system in the village have been obtained
and shall file a copy of all required franchises with the Village
Administrator.
      (9)   Inventory of existing sites. Each applicant for an antenna and/or
tower shall provide the Zoning Administrator an inventory of its existing
towers, antennas or sites approved for towers and antennas, that are either
within the jurisdiction of the village or within one mile of the border
thereof, including specific information about the location, heights and design
of each tower. The Zoning Administrator may share such information with other
applicants applying for administrative approvals of special use permits under
this section or other organizations seeking to locate antennas within the
jurisdiction of the village; provided, however, that the Zoning Administrator
is not, by sharing such information, in any way representing or warranting such
sites are available or suitable.
      (10)   Lot size. For purposes of determining whether the installation of
a tower or antenna complies with the district bulk regulations, including, but
limited to, setback requirement, lot coverage requirements and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels or easements with such
lots.
      (11)   Measurement. For purposes of measurement, tower setback and tower
separation distances shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in
the village irrespective of municipal jurisdictional boundaries.
      (12)   Multiple antenna/tower plan. The village encourages all plans for
tower and antenna sites to be submitted in single application for approval of
multiple towers and/or antenna sites. Applications for approval of multiple
sites shall be given priority in the review process.
      (13)   Not essential services. Towers and antennas shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this section and shall not be regulated or permitted as
essential services, public utilities or private utilities.
      (14)   Principal or accessory use. Antennas and towers may be considered
principal or accessory uses. A different existing use of an existing structure
on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or tower on
such lot.
      (15)   State or federal requirements. All towers must meet or exceed
current standards or regulations of the FAA, the FCC or any other agency of the
state or federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas.
If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers
and antennas governed by this section shall bring such towers and antennas into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations, unless a different
compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal agency.
   (G)   Additional application requirements. In addition to any information
required for applications for special use permits pursuant to §
157.226, applicants for a special use permit for a personal communication
facility shall submit the following information:
      (1)   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and height
of the proposed tower; on-site land uses and zoning; adjacent land uses and
zoning (including when adjacent to other municipalities); master plan
classification of the site; and all adjoining, adjacent roadways, proposed
means of access, setbacks from the property lines, elevation drawings of the
proposed tower and any other structure, topography, parking and other
information deemed by the Zoning Administrator to be necessary to assess
compliance with this section;
      (2)   Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel (if
applicable);
      (3)   The setback distance between the proposed tower and the nearest
residential unit, platted residentially zoned properties and unplatted
residentially zoned properties;
      (4)   The separation from the other towers described in the inventory of
existing sites submitted pursuant to division (F)(9) above shall be shown on an
updated site plan or map. The applicant shall also identify the type of
construction of the existing tower(s) and the owner/operator of the existing
tower(s), if known;
      (5)   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials;
      (6)   Method of fencing, and finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination;
      (7)   A description of compliance with division (F) above and all
applicable federal, state or local laws;
      (8)   A notarized statement by the applicant as to whether construction
of the tower will accommodate collocation of additional antennas for future
users;
      (9)   Identification of the entities providing the backhaul network for
the tower(s) described in the application and other cellular sites owned or
operated by the applicant in the municipality;
      (10)   A description of the suitability of the use of existing towers,
other structures or alternative technology not requiring the use of towers or
structures to provide the services to be provided through the use of the
proposed new tower; and
      (11)   A description of the feasible location(s) of future towers or
antennas within the village based upon existing physical, engineering,
technological or geographical limitations in the event the proposed tower is
erected.
   (H)   Factors considered in granting special use permit for towers. In
addition to any standards for consideration of special use permit applications
pursuant to §
157.226, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the following
factors in determining whether to issue a special use permit, although the
Planning and Zoning Commission may waive or reduce the burden on the
application of one or more of these criteria if the Planning and Zoning
Commission concludes that the goals of this section are better served thereby:
      (1)   Height of the proposed tower;
      (2)   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
      (3)   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
      (4)   Surrounding topography;
      (5)   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
      (6)   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
      (7)   Proposed ingress and egress; and
      (8)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures or
alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures.
         (a)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
stealth design. No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the Planning and Zoning
Commission that no existing tower, structure or alternative technology that
does not require the use of towers or structures can accommodate that
applicant’s proposed antenna. An applicant shall submit information requested
by the Planning and Zoning Commission related to the availability of suitable
existing towers, other structures or alternative technology. Evidence submitted
to demonstrate that no existing tower, structure or alternative technology can
accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna may consist of any of the
following.
         (b)   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant’s engineering requirements.
         (c)   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant’s engineering requirements.
         (d)   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant’s proposed antenna and related equipment.
         (e)   The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant’s proposed antenna.
         (f)   The fees, costs or contractual provisions required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable.
Costs exceeding new tower development are presumed to be unreasonable.
         (g)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
         (h)   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology that
does not require the use of towers
or structures, such as a cable microcell network using multiple low-powered
transmitter/receivers attached to a wireline system, is unsuitable. Costs of
alternative technology that exceed new tower or antenna development shall not
be presumed to render the technology unsuitable.
(Prior Code, § 159.021) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 11-0924, passed
10-5-2011) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.029 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS - GENERAL.
   The performance standards for all “zoning districts” are as follows with
regards to: noise, smoke, odorous matter, vibration, toxic or noxious matter,
glare or heat, fire and explosive hazards.
   (A)   Any use established in a manufacturing district after the effective
date of this chapter shall be so operated as to comply with the performance
standards set forth herein for the district in which the use shall be located.
No use lawfully established on the effective date of this chapter shall be so
altered or modified as to conflict with, or further conflict with, the
performance standards established for the district in which such use is
located.
   (B)   All performance standards shall be governed by the current state or
federal Environmental Protection Agency Regulations and the Occupational Safety
and Health Act (OSHA). Also, the performance standards shall be governed by the
current Fire Department Guidelines and Requirements, as recommended by the
National Fire Protection Association, and any other local governing
regulations.
   (C)   When hazardous liquids, gases and toxic matter are allowed to be
stored under this chapter, then the Fire Department shall be advised in writing
as to the conditions, materials and manufacturer’s recommendations with regard
to firefighting (including evacuation plans and emergency action plans and
treatment). All applicable “material safety data sheets” (MSDS) shall be
submitted to the Fire Departments, Fire Prevention Bureau, prior to product
storage.
   (D)   Every and any building hereinafter constructed, expanded, remodeled or
in any way altered or modified shall have as part of its general design a
decorative or functional structure having a height above grade of between 12
and 15 feet, and extending across not less than 50% of an exterior surface wall
facing a street or roadway.
   (E)   In addition, not less than the first four feet, measured vertically
from at grade, of any exterior surface facing a street or roadway, shall be
covered with a brick, stone or other decorative architectural material.
(Prior Code, § 159.022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.030 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS - NOISE.
   (A)   At no point on the boundary of a residential district or commercial
district shall the sound level of individual operation, plant, firm or
corporation exceed the decibel levels in the designated octave bands shown in
the table in this division for the zoning districts indicated, as measured by a
sound level meter and associated octave band filter, manufactured according to
standards prescribed by the American Standards Association (ASA). Impulsive-
type noises shall be subject to the performance standards prescribed in this
section, provided that such noises are capable of being accurately measured
with this equipment.
Octave Band Frequency in Maximum Permitted Sound Level (decibels)
Cycles Per Second        Along Residential District Along Business District
                         Boundaries                 Boundaries
Octave Band Frequency in Maximum Permitted Sound Level (decibels)
Cycles Per Second        Along Residential District Along Business District
                         Boundaries                 Boundaries
0 to 75                  72                         75
76 to 150                67                         70
151 to 300               59                         63
301 to 600               52                         57
601 to 1,200             46                         52
1,201 to 2,400           40                         45
2,401 to 4,800           34                         40
Over 4,800               32                         38
 
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor-driven vehicle of a type not subject
to registration for road use, at any time or under a condition of load,
acceleration or deceleration, in such a manner as to exceed an 82-decibel noise
limit of any type on property zoned for business or residential use at a
distance of not less than 50 feet from the path of travel.
(Prior Code, § 159.023) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.031 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS - VIBRATION.
   No person located in a residential, business/commercial or industrial/
manufacturing districts shall cause or permit, by the operation of impact
tools, rotating equipment or any other source of continuous or intermittent
vibrations or sharp impulses and shocks into any structure having human
occupancy, whether by virtue of residence, occupation, commerce, recreation or
other reason, and located on property in those districts (neither from one lot
to another within any one district nor from a lot in one district to any lot in
another district of any of the two designated), of any intensity perceptible
without the aid of instruments, in the sense that the maximum amplitude of such
vibrations shall never equal that level commonly referred to in the act as
“imperceptible” or “threshold of perceptibility” or indistinguishable from
ambient, whichever is higher. The maximum allowable vibration per inch per
second shall not exceed 0.5 inches per second.
(Prior Code, § 159.024) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.032 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS - NOXIOUS, ODOROUS AND TOXIC MATTER.
   No use shall discharge either onto its own property or across the boundaries
of the lot where any toxic, odorous or noxious matter is located in such
concentrations to be detrimental to or to endanger the public health, safety,
comfort or welfare, or cause appreciable injury or damage to property or
business. All uses shall comply with existing and future sewer regulations of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 159.025) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.033 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS - EMISSIONS.
   (A)   Smoke. No person owning, in charge of or operating any fuel-burning,
refuse-burning, combustion or process equipment, process device, portable
boiler, stacks, vents or premises shall cause, suffer or allow emission or
discharge of smoke from any single such source into the atmosphere, the
appearance, density or shade of which is darker than No. 1 - 1/2 of the
Ringlemann Chart.
   (B)   Particulate matter. No person shall cause or allow the emission of
fugitive particulate matter from any process, including any material handling
or storage activity, that is visible beyond the property line of the emission
source.
(Prior Code, § 159.026) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.034 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS - FUEL-BURNING EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall cause, suffer, allow or permit the burning of refuse or any
type of waste whatsoever in any boiler, furnace or other permissible fuel-
burning equipment, unless the equipment is in compliance with all the
applicable provisions of this zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 159.027) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.035 SPECIAL USES.
   No use of a structure or land that is designated as a “special use” in any
zoning district shall hereafter be established, and not existing special use
shall hereafter be changed to another special use or enlarged, in such district
unless a special use permit has been secured in accordance with the provisions
of §
157.226.
(Prior Code, § 159.028) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.036 AIRPORTS.
   Airports and surrounding territory are subject to the rules and regulations
of the State Department of Aeronautics, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
and the following.
   (A)   Height of structures in areas surrounding the boundaries of airports
having an established approach plan that has been approved by the State
Department of Aeronautics and the FAA shall be in accordance with the
requirements set forth in the approach plan.
   (B)   Height of structures, in areas 10,000 lineal feet beyond the
boundaries of the airports that do not have an established approach plan, shall
be governed by the following requirements.
      (1)   For an airport having the longest runway less than 3,950 lineal
feet in length, structures located just beyond the boundaries of the airport
shall not be in excess of 15 feet in height, and for every 200 lineal feet of
additional distance from the airport boundaries, the height of structures may
be increased by not more than ten feet.
      (2)   For an airport having a runway of 3,950 lineal feet or more in
length, structures just beyond the boundaries of the airport shall not be in
excess of 15 feet in height; and for every 200 lineal feet of additional
distance from airport boundaries, the height of structures may be increased by
not more than five feet, and where a runway has been designated as an
instrument runway, the height of structures may be increased by not more than
four feet in every 200 lineal feet of additional distance from airport
boundaries, for the first 10,000 lineal feet, and for the area covered in the
next 40,000 lineal feet, the height of structures may be increased by not more
than five feet in every additional 200 lineal feet.
   (C)   Structures exceeding the limiting heights shall be considered
obstructions to air navigation unless found not to be objectionable after a
special aeronautical study. Such structures may be specifically authorized as a
variation after a public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals and the
Village Board and as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 159.029) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.037 LANDSCAPING AND TREE PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This section is established to create uniform landscape, screening
and tree preservation standards for development of property in the village and
review of plans therefore, in order to ensure that the village remains
attractive, safe and comfortable.
      (2)   The landscape standards herein are established to:
         (a)   Promote, protect and preserve the general health and safety of
the people of the community and, as part of the general welfare, ensure
aesthetic compatibility among land uses within the community;
         (b)   Conserve soil and reduce soil erosion, reduce stormwater runoff,
to provide oxygen regeneration to enhance air quality and to reduce the effects
of urban heat islands;
         (c)   Minimize the harmful or nuisance effects resulting from noise,
dust, debris, motor exhaust, headlight glare, artificial light intrusions,
objectionable sights or activities or similar incompatible impacts conducted or
created by adjoining or nearby land use;
         (d)   Safeguard the environmental quality and aesthetic character of
the community by limiting the removal and ensuring replacement of trees upon
private property within the village;
         (e)   Preserve, insofar as practical, existing vegetation and
topographical features by limiting unnecessary clearing and modification of
land, encouraging the retention of existing mature trees, requiring the
replacement of indigenous trees with approved species; and
         (f)   Encourage the energy efficient operation of land uses in the
public interest.
   (B)   Applicability. Landscaping required by this section shall be a
condition to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any improvements
built on a zoning lot in the village. The screening requirements of division
(D)(4)(o) below shall be a condition for the issuance of any certificate of
occupancy, business license, rental property certificate of occupancy or any
other approval issued by the village. The maintenance requirements of division
(D)(4)(d) below apply to all required landscaping and approved landscaping
plans. Village staff may enforce maintenance requirements at any time.
   (C)   Tree preservation and removal regulations.
      (1)   Scope. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause the
removal of any tree on private property having a caliper of four inches or
greater in the village without having first obtained approval from the village
of a tree preservation and removal plan as described herein. Trees located in
public rights-of-way are governed by §
156.49. Nothing in this division (C) shall apply to tree removal by an owner of
a lot having a single-family, two-family or duplex dwelling located thereon.
      (2)   Tree preservation and removal plan required.
         (a)   A tree preservation and removal plan shall be required for any
parcel of land involving the construction of any new building(s) or structure
(s) or other site improvements, or the removal of a tree having a caliper of
four inches or greater.
         (b)   All tree preservation and removal plans shall include or have
attached thereto the following information:
            1.   A tree survey;
            2.   The location of those trees to be removed and preserved and
the methods which are to be used to remove and preserve such trees during site
development and/or tree removal procedures;
            3.   A written statement indicating the reason for removal of the
tree(s). A report from a licensed state arborist may be requested by the Zoning
Administrator if deemed appropriate;
            4.   A general description of the tree(s) to be removed; and
            5.   Details, specifications and/or technical information of
materials or procedures to be used to preserve and protect trees.
      (3)   General tree preservation and removal standards and criteria.
         (a)   Every reasonable effort shall be made to retain existing trees
on the aforementioned tree survey through the integration of those trees into
the site plan and landscape plan for a proposed development.
         (b)   Grading and construction equipment shall be forbidden from
encroaching within the drip line of a tree.
         (c)   Crushed limestone hydrocarbons and other material detrimental to
trees shall not be dumped within the drip line of any tree nor at any higher
location where drainage toward the tree could conceivably affect the health of
the tree.
         (d)   Snow fencing shall be temporarily installed at the periphery of
the tree’s drip line.
         (e)   Tree trunks and branches shall be protected when construction
must occur within a tree drip line.
         (f)   No grade changes shall be allowed under drip line of any trees
designated for preservation.
         (g)   To improve the survival rate of trees, root pruning and/or
thinning should be performed in accordance with industry standards and
practices.
         (h)   In the event that underground utility lines are proposed within
five feet of the trunk of a tree, then auguring of the utility line should be
considered and may be requested by the village.
         (i)   Any tree intended to be removed or unintentionally removed or
damaged during construction on the lot shall be replaced in the manner herein
prescribed.
            1.   a.   In the event that a tree is designated for removal during
the construction process, such tree shall be replaced with new trees in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
Caliper (inches) of Trees to Be Removed Number of Replacement Trees
4 to 12                                 4
13 to 29                                5
30 or greater                           6
 
               b.   Except that when a tree designated for removal is one of
the species in the following list, each such tree shall be replaced with one
replacement tree from the list of species provided in division (C)(3)(i)5.
below:
Common Name Botanical Name
Common Name                             Botanical Name
Any tree destroyed by storm, disease or Examples include trees with the Emerald
infestation                             Ash Borer or Dutch Elm Disease
Black Locust                            Robinea psueodoacacia
Box Elder                               Acer negundo
Buckthorn                               Rhamnus cathartica
Chokecherry                             Prunus virginiana
Cottonwood                              Populus deltoides
Chinese Elm                             Ulmus parviflora
Goldenchain Tree                        Laburnum anagyroides
Laurel Willow                           Salix pentandra
Mulberry                                Morus sp.
Osage Orange                            Maclura pomifera
Russian Olive                           Elaeagnus angustifolia
Siberian Elm                            Ulmus pumila
Tree of Heaven                          Ailanthus altissma
Weeping Willow                          Salix babylonica
 
            2.   a.   In the event that trees exist in a confined hedgerow
condition they are prone to structural defects and more susceptible to disease
and insect infestation resulting in a shortened life span and limited
functional benefits when compared with trees planted appropriately in open
areas. Therefore, trees in a hedgerow that are designated for removal during
the construction process, which have an overall healthy appearance and decent
form or “good” rating as determined by a certified arborist and “excellent”
trees that are specimens as determined by a certified arborist, shall be
replaced with new trees in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Caliper (Inches) of Trees to Be Removed Number of Replacement Trees
4 to 12                                 4
13 to 29                                5
30 or greater                           6
 
               b.   Trees in a hedgerow that are designated for removal during
the construction process, which have health problems or structural defects or
“poor” and “fair” ratings as determined by a certified arborist, shall be
replaced with one replacement tree from the list of species provided in
division (C)(3)(i)5. below.
               c.   The village may seek the opinion of an independent
certified arborist regarding the quality of trees at the expense of the
property owner, if requested by the Zoning Administrator.
            3.   In the event that a tree designated for preservation is
destroyed, damaged or removed during the construction process, such tree shall
be replaced with new trees in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Caliper (Inches) of Trees to Be Removed Number of Replacement Trees
4 to 12                                 6
13 to 29                                8
30 or greater                           10
 
            4.   All replacement trees shall have a minimum caliper of two and
one-half inches.
            5.   Replacement trees shall be limited to the following species:
Common Name Botanical Name
Common Name                           Botanical Name
American Beech                        Fagus grandifolia
American Hophornbeam, a.k.a. Ironwood Ostrya virginiana
American Linden, a.k.a. Basswood      Tilia americana
Bur Oak                               Quercus macrocarpa
Chinkapin Oak                         Quercus muehlenbergii
Common Hackberry                      Celtis occidentalis
European Beech                        Fagus sylvatica
Ginko (male), a.k.a. Maidenhair Tree  Ginko biloba
Kentucky Coffeetree (male)            Gymnocladus dioicus
Littleleaf Linden                     Tilia cordata
Miyabe Maple                          Acer miyabe
Norway maple                          Acer platanoides
Paperbark Maple                       Acer griseum
Red Maple                             Acer rubrum
Red Oak                               Quercus rubra
Silver Linden                         Tilia tomentosa
Smoothleaf Elm (Dutch elm disease     Ulmus carpinifolia (Accolade, Discovery,
resistant cultivars only)             Homestead, Pioneer and Regal cultivars)
Sugar Hackberry                       Celtis laevigata
Sugar Maple                           Acer saccharum
Swamp White Oak                       Quercus bicolor
Thornless Honeylocust                 Gleditsia triacanthos var. inermis
Tuliptree, a.k.a. Tulip Magnolia or   Liriodendron tulipifera
Tulip Popular
 
            6.   The landscape plan shall identify each replacement tree as a
replacement tree and indicate its location, species and size. No replacement
trees shall be used to satisfy the requirements for tree planting in public
right-of-way or in parking lots.
            7.   Removal of trees designated for preservation shall be allowed
only by amending the landscape plan.
            8.   Tree preservation and replacement required by this section
shall be a condition to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any
improvements constructed on a zoning lot in the village.
            9.   If it is impractical to plant the required number of
replacement trees on the same zoning lot due to space limitations or the
density of existing trees, the village shall require the owner to plant said
tree(s) on other public property at the village’s discretion, to make a cash
contribution to the village in lieu of planting said trees or to provide a
combination of both at the option of the village. The cash contributions in
lieu of replacement tree planting shall be used by the village solely for the
expense of planting of replacement trees on public property.
            10.   For the purpose of this division (C), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
               HEDGEROW. A line of different types of bushes and trees growing
very close together that form a hedge or boundary, usually between fields or
along the sides of roads.
      (4)   Guidelines for reviewing tree removal plans. The village shall
approve removal of a tree if one or more of the following conditions is
present.
         (a)   It is necessary to remove a tree which poses a safety hazard to
pedestrian or vehicular traffic or threatens to cause disruption of public
safety.
         (b)   It is necessary to remove a tree which poses a safety hazard to
structures.
         (c)   It is necessary to remove a tree which is diseased or has been
weakened by age, storm, fire or other injury.
         (d)   It is necessary to observe good forestry practice, i.e., the
number of healthy trees a given parcel of land will support.
      (5)   Tree removal permit. When tree removal is occasioned by any
development or land use requiring the submission of a landscape plan, tree
preservation and removal plan, site plan or subdivision plan, said plan shall,
upon approval by the village, constitute a tree removal permit.
      (6)   Failure to comply. If, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator,
the necessary precautions as specified in the tree preservation and removal
plan were not undertaken before or maintained during construction, the land
development permit for the parcel shall not be issued or if previously issued,
shall be revoked until such time as these precautions have been satisfied.
   (D)   Landscaping and screening regulations.
      (1)   Scope. A landscape plan prepared in accordance with the standards
set forth in this section shall be required for any land development requiring
a site plan review. Landscaping and screening required by this section shall be
a condition to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any improvements
built on a zoning lot in the village. The screening requirements of division
(D)(4)(o) below shall be a condition for the issuance of any certificate of
occupancy, business license, rental property certificate of occupancy or any
other approval issued by the village. The maintenance requirements of division
(D)(4)(d) below apply to all required landscaping and approved landscaping
plans. Village staff may enforce maintenance requirements at any time.
      (2)   Landscape plan required. A final landscape plan shall be completed
by a landscape architect or a person capable of fulfilling all requirements set
forth in this chapter. Applicants may elect to prepare a landscape plan in two
phases: a preliminary landscape plan and a final plan. Requests for relief or
revisions to these requirements of this chapter may be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator for their consideration.
      (3)   Content of landscape plan.
         (a)   Preliminary landscape plan. All preliminary landscape plans
shall include or have attached thereto the following information:
            1.   The name, address and phone number of the landscape architect
or other person who prepared the plan; scale, north arrow, date of preparation
and identification of the plans as a preliminary landscape plan;
            2.   The proposed location of all new plant materials shall be
shown;
            3.   An indication of the character of suggested plant materials to
be used, i.e., shade trees, ornamental trees, shrubbery, ground cover and the
like;
            4.   A tree preservation and removal plan;
            5.   The location of existing natural site features, including, but
not limited to, large boulders, rock outcroppings, wetlands and streams;
            6.   The location and dimension of all existing and proposed
buildings, parking lots and driveways, roadways and right-of-way, sidewalks,
bicycle paths, signs, fences, refuse disposal areas, freestanding electrical
equipment, setbacks, easements and other freestanding structure or features as
determined by the Zoning Administrator; and
            7.   Existing and proposed contours, including proposed berms, at
one foot contour intervals.
         (b)   Final landscape plan. All final landscape plans shall include or
have attached thereto to the following information:
            1.   The name, address and phone number of the landscape architect
or other person who prepared the plan; scale, north arrow, date of preparation
and identification of the plan as a final landscape plan;
            2.   The location of existing and proposed improvements, including,
but not limited to, buildings, with entry and exit points identified; all
utilities, lighting, walls and fences, parking areas (spaces delineated,
including parking spaces for people with disabilities, curbs); spot elevations
and contours; existing and proposed berms; existing (four-inch caliper and
larger with drip line) and proposed plant material; paved surfaces; sign
locations; public rights-of-way and easements, including street widths; refuse
disposal areas; property lines; and other exterior landscape amenities, such as
bike paths, plazas, architectural paving, flag poles, foundations, benches and
bicycle racks;
            3.   The planting schedule listing botanical names, common names,
caliper or height and quantity;
            4.   The proposed treatment of all ground surfaces (pea gravel,
ground covers, sod, seed and/or prairie);
            5.   Other drawings and information as required; such as irrigation
plan, if appropriate, grading and drainage plan, showing spot elevations and/or
cross-section or methods to be used to protect plants and planted areas, e.g.,
curbs, ties, walls;
            6.   Tree preservation and removal plan;
            7.   Provide elevations, cross- sections, samples and/or
photographs to indicate; texture of exposed surfaces, landscape material,
scale, color of exposed surfaces, planting in relation to buildings, if
requested by the Zoning Administrator; and
            8.   Provide technical information, samples, details and/or
photographs of materials to be used for light standards, benches, fences,
walls, signage, safety lighting and other site details.
      (4)   General design criteria.
         (a)   Scale and nature of landscape materials. The scale and nature of
landscape material shall be appropriate to the site and structures thereon.
         (b)   Selection of plant material.
            1.   Planting materials used in conformance with the provisions of
this section shall be:
               a.   Of good quality and of a species normally grown in
Northeastern Illinois;
               b.   Capable of withstanding the extremes of individual site
microclimates;
               c.   Selected for interest in its structure, texture and color
for its ultimate growth;
               d.   Harmonious to the design, and of good appearance; and
               e.   In conformance with American Standard for nursery stock as
approved by American National Standards Institute and issued as ANSI 2601.1986.
            2.   Evergreens shall be incorporated into the landscape treatment
of a site, particularly in those areas screening parking lots from dedicated
public rights-of-way or property zoned for residential use.
            3.   Minimum sizes for plant materials at time of installation for
all landscape areas shall be as follows.
               a.   Deciduous trees shall be a minimum size of two and one-half
inches caliper when installed. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum six feet in
height when installed.
               b.   Deciduous shrubs (other than dwarf varieties) shall be a
minimum of three feet in height at time of installation if used as a perimeter
screen planting, and 30 inches in height for all other installations. Dwarf
varieties and plants normally measured by spread shall be a minimum of 24
inches in height/spread.
               c.   Ground cover shall be so planted and spaced that complete
coverage can be obtained within two years after date of installation.
               d.   Ornamental trees shall be used, especially in smaller
planting areas, and shall have a minimum trunk size of two inches caliper, or
be of a clump form at a minimum height of five feet.
            4.   The trees listed in division (C)(3)(i)1. above. Additionally,
Silver maple (Acer saccharinum), all species of Poplar (populous), Catalpa,
Birch (betula) and Ash (fraxinus).
            5.   The trees listed in division (C)(3)(i)5. above. Additionally,
ornamental trees where appropriate, such as Apple Serviceberry (amelanchier x
grandiflora), Crabapple (malus) and Dogwood (cornus). Evergreen trees where
appropriate such as Concolor Fir (abies concolor), Limber Pine (pinus flexilis)
and Serbian Spruce (picea omorika). Additional trees may be incorporated into
the landscape plan with the approval of the Zoning Administrator provided they
are not listed in the prohibited tree section.
         (c)   Installation of plant materials.
            1.   Plant materials of all types and species shall be installed in
accordance with the minimum technical specifications of the Illinois Landscape
Contractors Association, including the provisions for guarantee and
replacement.
            2.   Trees shall not be planted within ten feet of any fire
hydrant, manhole, catch basin or utility structure. Trees shall not be planted
within five feet of any underground utility line.
         (d)   Maintenance of plant material. The owner of the premises shall
be responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of all landscaping
materials and barriers, including refuse disposal areas, walls, fences and
other amenities, as may be required by the provisions of this section.
            1.   A means of irrigating plant material shall be provided.
Installation of an automatic underground sprinkling system is recommended.
            2.   Tree “topping” or severe trimming is prohibited. This includes
the cutting of branches and/or the trunk of a tree in a manner which will
substantially reduce the overall size of the tree area so as to destroy the
existing symmetrical appearance or natural shape of the tree in a manner which
results in the removal of main lateral branches leaving the trunk of the tree
in a stub appearance.
            3.   The use of climbing spikes, nails or hooks is prohibited
except for total tree removal.
            4.   The attachment of signs, banners, lights and other similar
items to site landscaping is prohibited except for temporary holiday
decorations.
         (e)   Planting beds. Planting beds shall be mulched in their entirety
with shredded bark or other similar organic material. Lava rock or large
diameter (one and one-half inch diameter or larger) bark chips (“chunk bark”)
are not acceptable. Gravel and stone mulches are not permitted, unless
specifically approved in writing by the village. Mulch beds at time of planting
shall extend a minimum of two feet beyond the center of a shrub.
         (f)   Walls and fences. Plant materials shall be placed intermittently
against long expanses of building walls, fences and other barriers to create a
softening effect. All wood fences proposed to be used to satisfy the
requirements of this section shall be of red cedar, redwood, cypress or other
approved decay resistant treated wood, at least six feet high, and of solid
construction. Wood fences shall be not less than 75% opaque, with all
supporting posts exposed to the lot interior. Stockade type fences are not
permitted.
         (g)   Detention/retention basins and ponds. Detention/retention basins
and ponds areas shall be planted. Such plantings shall include shade and
ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting
materials. Plants must be able to tolerate wet conditions if planted within the
basin.
         (h)   Energy conservation.
            1.   Deciduous trees, shrubs and vines should dominate the south
and west sides of buildings and plaza areas to provide shade during the summer
and limited shade during winter.
            2.   Evergreens and other plant materials should be concentrated on
the north side of buildings in a manner which dissipates the effect of winter
winds.
         (i)   Berms. Earthen berms and existing topography shall, wherever
practical, be incorporated into the landscape treatment of a site. Berms shall
not exceed a maximum slope of three horizontal units to one vertical unit (3:
1), except in parking islands, where the maximum slope shall not exceed two
horizontal units to one vertical unit (2:1).
         (j)   Topography. Where natural, existing topographic patterns
contribute to the beauty and utility of a development, they shall be preserved
and developed. Modification of topography may be allowed where it contributes
to the aesthetic quality of the site.
         (k)   Protection of plant material and/or people. In locations where
plant materials may be susceptible to injury or cause personal injury,
appropriate curbs, tree guards or other devices shall be provided.
         (l)   Areas where plant material will not prosper. In areas where
general planting will not prosper, other materials, such as fences, walls and
pavings of wood, brick, stone, pea gravel and cobbles, shall be used. Carefully
selected plant material shall be combined with such materials where possible.
         (m)   Exterior landscape lighting. Lighting standards and fixtures
when used to enhance the building design and the adjoining landscape shall be
of a size and design compatible with the building and adjacent areas. Lighting
shall be restrained in design, and excessive brightness and brilliant colors
shall be avoided. Utility services shall be underground.
         (n)   Amenities. In business, office and industrial districts, seating
areas, paved areas, plant enclosures, benches, waste receptacles, lights and
other amenities shall be provided where appropriate.
         (o)   Service yard screening. Service yards, loading docks and other
places that tend to be unsightly shall be screened from view. Screening shall
be equally effective at all times of the year.
            1.   Trash dumpsters and other waste receptacles or equipment shall
be stored in an enclosure that incorporates a solid wall on three sides and a
solid single or double access gate on the fourth side.
               a.   The enclosure must meet the following criteria.
                  i.   It must be at least six feet in height.
                  ii.   It must be constructed of masonry materials, such as
brick or stone.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4657.png]
 
                  iii.   When the principle structure on a parcel was
constructed prior to August 6, 2003, the masonry walls may be substituted for
vinyl fencing or wood fencing that incorporates a decorative element, such as
dogeared or arched top, top and bottom rail, shadowbox construction or lattice
detail.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4659.png]
 
               b.   The gate must meet the following criteria.
                  i.   It must be a solid single or double access gate.
                  ii.   It must be of rigid construction and incorporate cross
bracing.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4661.png]
 
               c.   The following additional criteria apply to both the
enclosure and the gate(s).
                  i.   They must be a single neutral earth-tone color that
coordinates with the color of the principal structure.
                  ii.   All wood fencing used must be constructed of decay-
resistant exterior-grade treated lumber, such as cedar or redwood.
                  iii.   All wood must be painted or stained.
                  iv.   Fencing must be constructed of vertically-run slats
that are at least three inches but no more than five inches in width.
            2.   All utility equipment (meters, transformers and the like)
shall be provided with appropriate planting screens.
            3.   Except when located across a street from residential zoned
property, all garage doors and loading areas on nonresidential property shall
be concealed from view (at grade) from adjoining residential zoned property.
            4.   All outdoor storage facilities for raw materials and finished
products within 500 feet of a residence district shall be effectively screened
and enclosed by a solid wall or fence at least eight feet in height. If
materials to be stored outdoors are in excess of eight feet in height, then
landscape screening shall be provided in addition to the fence or wall
installed along the outside perimeter of the fence or wall, equal or exceeding
the height of the materials to be stored outdoors.
         (p)   Innovative landscaping. Innovative landscaping treatments are
encouraged and shall be considered as a positive attribute in connection with
any request for a variation from the requirements of this chapter.
         (q)   Intersection visibility. Landscaping must be designed and
installed in conformance with the sight triangle regulations of §
157.021.
         (r)   Edging. Edging is recommended to separate grass areas from
shrubs, ground cover and mulch and shall be a good quality steel, plastic or
weather resistant (redwood, cedar) or treated wood secured with stakes.
         (s)   Artificial plants. No artificial plants of any type shall be
used to satisfy any requirements of this section.
         (t)   Ground cover. All drainage swales and slopes having a slope of
three vertical units to one horizontal unit (3:1) or greater shall be sodded.
All other ground areas not covered by buildings, parking, sidewalks or other
impervious surfaces, or occupied by planting beds shall be graded smooth with a
minimum of four inches of black dirt after compacting and removing stumps,
rocks and other debris, and shall be seeded or sodded to prevent soil erosion
and sedimentation of public drainage systems, creeks, streams, rivers and
wetlands.
         (u)   Water conservation. Wherever possible, landscape designs and
plant material which is indigenous and or drought tolerant should be used to
reduce the need for irrigation.
         (v)   Flower beds. Flower beds are encouraged and shall be planted in
masses in acceptable areas to create color, texture and visual interest. Native
species are preferred and recommended.
      (5)   Additional right-of-way landscaping requirements. In addition to
the general design criteria prescribed in division (C)(4) above, landscaping is
required in public right-of-way in accordance with §
156.49.
      (6)   Additional parking lot landscaping requirements. In addition to the
general design criteria prescribed in division (D)(4) above, the following
requirements shall also apply to landscaping parking lots.
         (a)   Scope. All parking lots designed for 20 or more parking spaces
shall be landscaped in accordance with the provisions of this section.
         (b)   Interior parking lot landscaping. To define circulation within a
parking lot and to visually and physically break-up long rows of parking
spaces, landscape islands are required to be provided within parking lot areas,
as follows.
            1.   Parking aisle landscape islands. A landscaped island shall be
provided at the end of each parking row. The island shall be protected by a
continuous barrier curb and shall have a minimum width of seven feet, measured
back-of-curb to back-of-curb, and shall have a depth equal to the adjoining
parking space. Each parking aisle landscape island shall contain two shade
trees.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4663.png]
 
            2.   Parking space landscape islands. In addition to parking aisle
landscape islands, one or more of the following alternatives shall be used to
divide each row of parking having 20 spaces or more:
               a.   Full parking space landscape island. One landscape island
protected by a continuous barrier curb and having a minimum width of seven
feet, measured back-of-curb to back-of-curb, and a depth equal to the adjoining
parking space, may be provided for each 20 parking spaces in the parking row.
Said landscape islands shall be dispersed throughout the parking row. Each said
landscape island shall contain one shade tree;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4665.png]
 
               b.   Partial parking space landscape island. One landscape
island positioned at the front corner of a parking space, protected by a
continuous barrier curb and having minimum dimensions of six and one-half feet
square, measured back-of-curb to back-of-curb, may be provided for each ten
parking spaces in the parking row. Said landscape islands shall be dispersed
throughout the parking row and shall not be used in parking rows along the
perimeter of a parking lot. Each said landscape island shall contain one shade
tree.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4667.png]
 
               c.   Continuous parking row landscape island.
                  i.   A continuous landscape island protected by a continuous
barrier curb and having a minimum depth of seven feet, measured back-of-curb to
back-of-curb, may be provided between parking rows.
                  ii.   Said landscape island shall not be used in parking rows
along the perimeter of a parking lot. Each said landscape island shall contain
one shade tree for each 20 parking spaces in the parking row.
            3.   Additional landscaping standards. In addition to the shade
trees required in this section, each landscape island required herein shall be
landscape with an appropriate number and selection of shrubs, flowers,
groundcovers, sodded lawn and mulch. Shrubs planted in a parking lot landscape
island shall not exceed a mature height of 30 inches above the adjoining
pavement. No tree planted in a parking lot landscape island shall have branches
lower than six feet above the adjoining pavement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4669.png]
 
         (c)   Parking lot perimeter landscaping.
            1.   Front and corner side yards.
               a.   Where a parking lot is located in or adjacent a front or
corner side yard in a residential district, continuous landscaping shall be
provided across not less than 100% of the parking lot frontage to a minimum
height of three feet. Such landscaping shall consist of any combination of
berms, shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other
live planting material. Plantings may be placed in clusters, containing at
minimum seven evergreens and/or shrubs per cluster, spaced at intervals of
approximately 35 feet along the frontage of the parking lot.
               b.   Where a parking lot is located in or adjacent a front or
corner side yard not in a residential district, continuous landscaping shall be
provided across not less than 60% of the parking lot frontage to a minimum
height of three feet. Such landscaping shall consist of any combination of
berms, shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other
live planting material. Plantings may be placed in clusters, containing at
minimum seven evergreens and/or shrubs per cluster, spaced at intervals of
approximately 35 feet along the frontage of the parking lot. However, when a
continuous row of shrubs or hedges is chosen, the entire parking lot frontage
shall be screened.
            2.   Rear and side yards.
               a.   Where a parking lot is located in a yard adjacent a
residential zoning district, landscaping shall be provided as follows.
                  i.   Screening between the parking lot and the residential
property line shall be a minimum of six feet in height.
                  ii.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one
for each 50 lineal feet, or fraction thereof, of parking lot frontage and shall
not be planted more than 40 feet apart.
                  iii.   Other planting material, including ornamental trees,
evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting materials shall be
provided at intermittent locations, covering at least 100% of the frontage of
the parking lot.
                  iv.   Except where occupied by planting beds, all side and
rear yard perimeter landscaping area shall be sodded or seeded.
               b.   Where a parking lot is located in a yard adjacent a
nonresidential zoning district; and a parking setback is provided, landscaping
shall be provided across not less than 50% of that portion of the parking lot
abutting the property line to a minimum height of three feet. Such landscaping
shall consist of any combination of berms, shade and ornamental trees,
evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting materials. Plantings
may be placed in clusters, containing not less than seven shrubs per cluster,
spaced at intervals of approximately 35 feet along the property line.
      (7)   Additional foundation landscaping requirements. In addition to the
general design criteria prescribed in division (D)(4) above, the following
requirements shall also apply to foundation landscaping.
         (a)   Scope. All nonresidential and multiple-family development shall
provide perimeter landscaping as prescribed herein. Parking lots located on the
perimeter of a lot shall comply with the requirements of division (D)(6) above.
         (b)   Setback. A landscaping area not less than ten feet in width
shall be located around the perimeter of all buildings, except where
impractical, i.e., loading dock areas, entryways and the like.
         (c)   Coverage. Required foundation landscaping areas shall remain
open and free of all paving except where walks to buildings and other similar
paving is required.
         (d)   Landscaping materials. Foundation landscaping consists of shade
and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting
materials. Particular attention shall be paid toward screening mechanical
equipment, bicycle parking areas and loading docks; softening large expanses of
building walls; and accenting entrances and architectural features of the
building(s).
      (8)   Additional perimeter landscaping requirements. In addition to the
general design criteria prescribed in division (C)(4) above, the following
requirements shall also apply to foundation landscaping.
         (a)   Scope. All nonresidential and multiple-family development shall
provide perimeter landscaping as prescribed.
         (b)   Nonresidential property abutting nonresidential property. Where
nonresidential property abuts property in a business, office or industrial
district, landscaping shall be provided as follows.
            1.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one for
each 75 feet, or fraction thereof, of frontage along the abutting property
line. Such trees shall be planted no more than 40 feet apart and may be
clustered or spaced linearly as determined appropriate.
            2.   Other landscaping materials, including berms, ornamental
trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting materials shall
be provided at appropriate locations along the abutting property line.
         (c)   Nonresidential property abutting residential property. Where
nonresidential property abuts property in a residential district, landscaping
shall be provided as follows.
            1.   A solid screen six feet in height shall be provided along the
entire length of the abutting property line. Such screen shall consist of a
solid wood fence, berms, trees, evergreens, shrubbery and/or other live
planting materials, necessary to provide 100% coverage.
            2.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one for
each 75 feet, or fraction thereof, of frontage along the abutting property
line. Such trees shall not be planted more than 40 feet apart and may be
clustered or spaced linearly as determined appropriate.
         (d)   Multiple-family residential property. Where a multiple-family
residential use abuts property in any zoning district, landscaping shall be
provided as follows.
            1.   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not less
than one for each 75 feet, or fraction thereof, of frontage along the abutting
property line. Such trees shall not be planted more than 40 feet apart and may
be clustered or spaced linearly as appropriate.
            2.   Other landscaping materials, including berms, if possible;
ornamental trees; evergreens; shrubbery; hedges; and/or other live planting
materials, shall be provided at intermittent locations across 50% of the
abutting property line. Shrubs shall be placed in clusters containing at least
seven per cluster, spaced at intervals of approximately 35 feet along the
abutting property line.
   (E)   Administration of landscaping and tree preservation regulations.
      (1)   Variations from requirements of this section.
         (a)   The village recognizes that, because of the wide variety of
types of developments and the relationships between them, some flexibility in
applying standards set forth in divisions (C) and (D) above are appropriate as
long as the intent of specified requirements are met. The Zoning Administrator
may authorize deviations not more than 20% from the requirements of any
specific requirement set forth in divisions (C) and (D) above.
         (b)   Whenever the village allows or requires deviation from the
requirements set forth in this section, it shall enter on the face of the
landscape plan the reasons for allowing or requiring deviation from the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   Certificate of occupancy. All required landscaping shall be
installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. If weather
conditions or other circumstances beyond the developer’s control prevent
installation of all or portions of the landscape materials and all other
requirements for the issuance of a certificate of occupancy have been met, a
letter of credit or a performance guarantee approved by the Village Attorney to
ensure completion of approved landscaping shall be filed with the Village
Administrator. The amount of the performance guarantee and the required
completion data shall be recommended by the Zoning Administrator based on
current costs and set by the Village Board. If such a letter of credit or
performance guarantee has already been submitted for the proposed landscape
improvements, the Village Board may permit the developer to extend the
performance guarantee for an additional specified period of time.
   (F)   Guidelines for reviewing landscape plans. A landscape plan shall be
approved if the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The use of shrubs, flowers, berms and ground cover are used
appropriately to enhance the overall appearance and function of the site or
open spaces on the site;
      (2)   The planting of shade and ornamental and evergreen trees is used to
define and enhance spaces on the site;
      (3)   The use of planting material to effectively screen adjacent
dwelling units, service areas and parking areas;
      (4)   The use of planting material to contribute to water conservation
and energy efficiency;
      (5)   The use of planting material seasonal color, texture, size and form
to create seasonal and visual interest and appeal in the community; and
      (6)   The composition, number, location, species of landscape material,
berms, fences and other features and supporting documentation are provided as
required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 159.030) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 09-0744, passed 4-
15-2009; Ord. 12-1013, passed 11-7-2012; Ord. 15-1229, passed 11-18-2015)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.038 USES NOT SPECIFICALLY PERMITTED.
   When a use is not specifically listed in the sections devoted to permitted
uses, special uses, accessory uses, temporary uses, signage and the like, it
shall be determined that the uses are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 159.031) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.039 PUBLIC UTILITY EXEMPTIONS.
   The following public utility and municipal uses are permitted in any Zoning
District: poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes,
mains, valves or other similar distributing equipment (not including
substations located on or above the surface of the ground), for the
distribution to consumers of telephone or other communications, electricity,
gas or water, or for the collection of sewage or surface water; provided that
the installation and location shall conform with the rules and regulations of
the applicable administrative authorities and the ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 159.032) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.040 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Each use hereafter established shall be served by a public sewerage
collection system and water distribution system.
(Prior Code, § 159.033)
§ 157.041 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   Traditionally, in zoning, certain occupational uses termed “home
occupations” have been allowed in residential dwelling units. Such uses have
been allowed largely on the basis that such uses are incidental to the use of
the premises as a residence, that the nature of home occupational uses is such
that they are compatible with or even belong in the home or that home
occupational uses are of a highly professional nature involving the use of
mental rather than physical capabilities and are, therefore, compatible with
residential land uses.
      (2)   It is recognized, however, by this village, that certain limited
home occupations can be useful to both the general public as well as the
resident/proprietor. Also recognized is the difficulty of writing and ordinance
dealing with home occupations in a “middle-of-the-road” fashion, which is
neither discriminatory nor arbitrary. It is the hope that both the citizens and
the courts will recognize these difficulties; that the former will not abuse
the privileges granted within the following test and that the latter will aid
in the enforcement of the sometimes arbitrary restrictions necessary to
preserve residential character in an expedient manner.
      (3)   (a)   With the above in mind, it is the intent and purpose of this
section to provide for certain types of restricted occupational uses within
residential districts.
         (b)   Only such uses will be allowed:
            1.   Any home occupation that is customarily incidental to the
principal use of a building as a dwelling shall be permitted in any dwelling
unit;
            2.   Are compatible with residential uses;
            3.   Are limited in size; and
            4.   Do not detract from the residential character of the
neighborhood.
   (B)   Home occupations, required conditions. A home occupation is any
gainful occupation or profession engaged in by an occupant of a dwelling unit
which meets the following conditions and/or requirements. These are in addition
to all of the use limitations applicable in the district in which a home
occupation is located, no business license shall be issued unless it complies
with the following restrictions in all residential districts.
      (1)   Size/space requirements. A home occupation shall be incidental to
the principal use (residential), where no more than 25% of the floor area of a
one-story dwelling unit and no more than 20% of the floor area of any other
residential dwelling unit may be used in connection with the home occupation or
for the storage purposes associated with the home occupation. FLOOR AREA OF A
DWELLING UNIT is defined as all heated and ventilated and thereby habitable
rooms and areas within the dwelling unit, including basements and habitable
attic space.
      (2)   Retail sales. On the premises, retail sales shall be prohibited
except for the retail sales of products, goods or trade work produced or
fabricated on the premises as a result of the home occupation.
      (3)   Employment. Only members of the immediate family permanently
residing on the premises shall be an employee in the home occupation.
      (4)   Hours of operation. In no case shall any permitted home occupation
be open to the public at times earlier than 8:00 a.m. nor later than 8:00 p.m.
      (5)   Patronage. No more than five persons may avail themselves of the
services provided by the home occupation use at a given dwelling unit at any
given moment in time.
      (6)   Storage outdoor. There shall be no exterior storage outside the
principal building or accessory structure of equipment, product or the like in
conjunction with the home occupation.
      (7)   Conduct and appearance. The home occupation shall be conducted
entirely within the principal residential building. There shall be no
advertising or identification sign acknowledging the presence of the home
occupation.
      (8)   Manufacturing. There shall be no manufacturing or processing of any
sort conducted within the confines of the dwelling unit. Minor assembly of
products or goods may be permitted, if done solely within the dwelling unit.
      (9)   Wholesaling. No wholesale, jobbing or retail business shall be
permitted unless sales are conducted entirely by mail or telephone and the
business does not involve the receipt, shipment, delivery or storage of
merchandise/materials/product on or from the premises.
      (10)   Alterations. There shall be no alterations to the principal
residential building or accessory structures, which changes the character
thereof, as a dwelling unit.
      (11)   Equipment. No mechanical or electrical equipment may be used
except such types as are customary for purely domestic, household or hobby
purposes.
      (12)   Deliveries. There shall be no deliveries to or from a home
occupation with a vehicle larger than a one ton truck (i.e., Federal Express,
United Parcel Service, Emery and the like).
      (13)   Performance standards. A home occupation shall produce no
offensive noise, vibration, smoke, electrical interference, dust, odors or
heat. A home occupation as provided by this section shall be completely
contained within the principal building. Any noise, vibration, smoke,
electrical interference, dust, odors or heat detectable beyond the property
lines or beyond the walls of the dwelling unit, if the unit is part of a multi-
family structure, shall constitute a violation of the terms of the provisions
herein. The judgment of the Zoning Administrator shall be considered decisive
and final in this matter unless formally appealed to the Planning and Zoning
Commission within 45 days of the Zoning Administrator’s written determination.
      (14)   Multiple-family dwelling units. Home occupations that attract
customers, clients or students to the premises for sales or service shall not
be permitted in multiple family dwelling units.
   (C)   Additional conditions for personal property sales (garage sales).
      (1)   Permit required. Before any person holds or conducts a personal
property sale, such as, but not limited to, garage sales, basement sales, yard
sales, porch sales, estate sales or auctions for the purpose of selling used
household, clothing or any personal property items which are owned by the
resident(s) on the premises, a personal property sale permit for a garage sale
shall be obtained from the village.
      (2)   Terms of permit.
         (a)   Sales shall not last longer than three consecutive days.
         (b)   Not more than two sales shall be permitted on the premises
during a calender year.
         (c)   No goods purchased for resale may be offered for sale.
         (d)   No consignment goods may be offered for sale.
         (e)   Sales shall be conducted on the owner’s property. Multiple-
family sales are permitted provided they are held on the property of one of the
participating families.
      (3)   Conditions of permit.
         (a)   The permits shall be valid only upon demonstrating to and
finding by the village that proper safety and environmental precautions have
been taken to ensure the safety of the general public.
         (b)   The permit shall be posted on the premises in a conspicuous
place so as to be readily seen by the public and village enforcement personnel.
         (c)   Any police or enforcement officer of the village shall have the
right of entry to any premises showing evidence of personal property sale for
the purpose of enforcement or inspection. Said enforcement official may close
sale operations upon determination that a violation of this chapter exists and
may arrest any person who violates any provision of this chapter.
      (4)   Application. Application for a garage sale permit shall be made at
the office of the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (5)   Application fee. The application fee for a garage sale permit shall
be established by the Village Board of Trustees and shall be posted in the
office of the Village Clerk and may be altered and amended from time to time by
the Mayor and Village Board.
      (6)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation that violates any of the
provisions of this section shall be subject to the penalty provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   Permits/fees/inspections.
      (1)   A business license establishing the home occupation may be issued
by the Zoning Administrator; provided that all of the above criteria have been
met by the applicant.
      (2)   A business license granted by this section shall be temporary in
nature and shall be granted to a designated person who resides at a particular
residential address. They are not transferable from person to person nor from
address to address.
      (3)   Applications for a home occupation business license shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator, together with a one-time filing fee according to
the current “fee schedule” herein. The application shall then be reviewed to
ensure compliance with this section and the residential district in which the
home occupation is located.
      (4)   There may be one annual inspection each year directed by the Zoning
Administrator covered by the license. In addition, the Zoning Administrator or
their designee shall have the right at any time, upon reasonable request, to
enter and inspect the premises covered by said license for safety and
compliance purposes.
      (5)   The annual fee for continuing a license issued under this section
shall be according to the current “fee schedule” herein and shall be payable on
May 1 of each year.
      (6)   Licenses shall expire April 30 of each year, and once granted may
be renewed without making another application, subject to the provisions of
this section, by completing the renewal form described by the Zoning
Administrator and paying the annual license fee. Failure to timely apply for
renewal, and/or failure to pay for the business license, shall be grounds for
revocation of the business license.
   (E)   General provisions.
      (1)   Should a license holder die or move to a new location, the existing
license shall automatically terminate, except that, in the case of death,
should a surviving spouse or child residing at the same address desire to
continue the home occupation, written notice to that effect shall be given to
the Zoning Administrator, and that person may be authorized continuation of
that license.
      (2)   Business licenses, once granted, may be revoked by the village for
cause after a public hearing before the Village Board. Complaints seeking the
revocation of such license shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and may
be initiated by the Planning and Zoning Commission or three residents of the
block (both sides where the home occupation is being conducted). All such
revocation hearings shall be conducted in accordance with §
157.226. Publication and notification requirements shall be done in accordance
with §§
110.01 through
110.15.
      (3)   All businesses being conducted on properties zoned in a residential
district on the effective date of this section shall have 90 days thereafter to
apply for the necessary license.
      (4)   Persons who were conducting a business from properties zoned in a
residential district on the effective date of this section must make
application according to the procedures herein; however, they may continue to
conduct such business pending final determination from the Zoning Administrator
of their application. Should the application be denied for a license, all such
persons shall have the opportunity for an appeal with the Planning and Zoning
Commission as outlined by this chapter.
   (F)   Customary/permitted home occupations. Customary “home occupations”
include, but are not limited to, the following list of occupations; provided,
however, that each listed occupation shall be subject to the requirements of
division (B) above:
      (1)   Art restoration, art studio;
      (2)   Artists, authors, composers, painters and sculptures;
      (3)   Babysitting, including family day care home, as defined by §
158.003;
      (4)   Beauty parlors and barber shops, single chair;
      (5)   Clergy, minister, priest for consultation purposes only or for the
performance of religious rites;
      (6)   (a)   Consulting services* (i.e., architectural, attorney,
engineering, financial planning/investment services, interior designer,
writing/computer programming).
         (b)   *Not for the general assembly of groups of more than six and not
for the installation or use of any mechanical or electrical equipment
customarily incidental to the practice of any such profession.
      (7)   Contracting, except as specifically prohibited;
      (8)   Data processing, telecommunications, high speed data transmissions
or the like completed through the use of telephones, facsimiles, modems or
other forms of telecommunications peripherals;
      (9)   Dentist may use their residence for consultation purposes only with
general and/or limited treatments;
      (10)   Direct sale product distribution (Amway, Avon, Jaffra, Tupperware,
Herbalife);
      (11)   (a)   Drafting and graphic services*.
         (b)   *Not for the general assembly of groups of more than six and not
for the installation or use of any mechanical or electrical equipment
customarily incidental to the practice of any such profession.
      (12)   Dressmaking, seamstress, sewing, tailoring, contract sewing (one
machine);
      (13)   Electronic designing;
      (14)   Flower arranging, gardening, landscape maintenance (without
outdoor storage of materials and/or equipment);
      (15)   Home crafts, such as model-making, rug-weaving, lapidary work;
however, no machinery or equipment shall be used or employed other than what is
customary to the home;
      (16)   Home cooking and preserving;
      (17)   Home day care/babysitting for less than five non-related children,
as defined by this chapter;
      (18)   House cleaning services;
      (19)   Insurance sales or broker;
      (20)   Jewelry making; jeweler; watch repairs;
      (21)   Laundry, ironing services;
      (22)   Locksmith;
      (23)   Mail order, not including retail sales from the home;
      (24)   Music teachers, but regular instruction shall be limited to one
pupil at a time, except for occasional groups;
      (25)   Photo developing, non-retail, no drop-off service, delivery only;
      (26)   Real estate sales or broker;
      (27)   Sales representative, office only;
      (28)   Secretarial services;
      (29)   Security service, security systems, auto security systems, no
installations at home;
      (30)   Swimming pool cleaning;
      (31)   Telephone answering, switchboard, call forwarding;
      (32)   Tutoring shall be limited: one to four students at a time;
      (33)   Typing, word-processing service;
      (34)   Wall papering;
      (35)   Woodworking, excluding cabinet making; and
      (36)   Writing, computer programming.
   (G)   Prohibited home occupations. The following are “prohibited” home
occupations in any residential districts, unless specifically permitted by the
district regulations:
      (1)   Ambulance services;
      (2)   Animal kennels or hospitals;
      (3)   Appliance repair;
      (4)   Automobile repair; parts sales, upholstery or detailing; washing
service (including businesses working at customers homes);
      (5)   Barber shops and beauty shops above one chair;
      (6)   Boarding house, hotel, time share condominium;
      (7)   Carpentry work, cabinet makers;
      (8)   Catering;
      (9)   Ceramics (kiln of six cubic feet or more);
      (10)   Churches, religious instruction;
      (11)   Contracting that involves masonry, plumbing or painting;
      (12)   Dancing schools;
      (13)   Dog breeders or dog re-sellers.
      (14)   Funeral homes or chapels;
      (15)   Gift shops;
      (16)   Gun smith/shop including sales and service;
      (17)   Health salons, gyms, aerobic exercise studios;
      (18)   Helium balloon sales;
      (19)   House painter;
      (20)   Limousine or pedicabs service;
      (21)   Major automobile repair (see definition in §
157.003);
      (22)   Massage parlors;
      (23)   Medical or dental clinics/offices or hospitals;
      (24)   Mortician, hearse service;
      (25)   Nursery schools and home day care centers (see definitions §
157.003);
      (26)   Painting of vehicles, trailers and/or boats;
      (27)   Private clubs;
      (28)   Private schools with organized classes;
      (29)   Restaurants, home dinettes, taverns and food preparation;
      (30)   Retail sales from the site (except direct distribution);
      (31)   Rental businesses;
      (32)   Skin care products (manufacturing of same);
      (33)   Small engine repair;
      (34)   Stables or animal care (veterinarian);
      (35)   Television repair;
      (36)   Lodging houses;
      (37)   Tow truck services;
      (38)   Trailer rentals or sales;
      (39)   Upholstery;
      (40)   Veterinary uses (including care, grooming, or boarding); and
      (41)   Welding and machine shops.
(Prior Code, § 159.034) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0599, passed
12-19-2007) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.042 FENCES, WALLS, RETAINING WALLS AND HEDGES.
   (A)   General. This section governs the installation, replacement,
alteration, relocation and maintenance of fences, walls, retaining walls and
hedges in the village.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this section, no fence, wall,
retaining wall or hedge shall be installed, replaced, altered or moved for any
reason within the village prior to receiving a permit therefor.
      (2)   Applications for permits shall be, in writing, on the application
form furnished by the village. The following information shall be submitted
with each permit application:
         (a)   A plat of survey or other accurate and scaled drawing depicting:
            1.   The proposed location of the fence, wall, retaining wall or
hedge;
            2.   The location and dimensions of all structures existing on the
site (including the primary building, all accessory structures and all existing
fencing);
            3.   The property lines;
            4.   The easements;
            5.   The street lines, sidewalks and walkways; and
            6.   For corner lots, the orientation of the neighboring building
showing the direction in which the buildings face.
         (b)   A description of the proposed fence, wall, retaining wall or
hedge including the type, height and construction materials; and
         (c)   A copy of the village’s drainage certificate, signed by the
property owner.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued until it has been approved for zoning
compliance by the Zoning Administrator and until it has been approved for
building/structural compliance by the Building Commissioner.
      (4)   No permit shall be issued until after the permit fee has been paid
in full.
   (C)   Impact on drainage. No fence, wall, retaining wall, garden, berm,
landscaping, hedge or other structure shall inhibit or alter drainage (i.e.,
flow of stormwater or surface water) through drainage ditches or over public
utility and/or drainage easements. The village engineer or designee has the
right to deny/prohibit fencing if a fence will inhibit or alter drainage.
      (1)   Landscaping in easements.
         (a)   Landscaping, other than seed or sod, is not recommended in
drainage easements.
         (b)   When landscaping is installed, it shall not alter the grades nor
shall it alter the flow of surface water. Landscaping features, such as raised
flower beds or gardens, shall be avoided in drainage easement as they have the
tendency to impact drainage.
         (c)   If it is determined that landscaping impedes or alters the
surface water drainage on the property or other properties, the village may
require the homeowner to remove the landscaping and the village has the right
to remove, relocate or alter the landscaping.
      (2)   Fences in easements. The village has the right to remove, relocate
or alter a fence, wall, retaining wall or hedge located in an easement if the
potential exists to impede or alter the surface water drainage of the property
or any other property. If the fence needs to be removed to obtain access to
utilities or for the maintenance of drainage for any reason, the village is not
responsible for replacement or repair of the fence or any other homeowner
improvements located within the easements.
      (3)   Grading restoration. When a fence is installed, all spoils shall be
removed and the grading shall be restored to its original state. The soil
spoils which are removed cannot be spread under the fence or in any drainage
easement.
   (D)   Impact on visibility. No fence, wall, retaining wall or hedge shall be
installed or located within the sight triangle at the intersection of two or
more streets, roadways, driveways or access drives as described in §
157.021. There shall be no significant obstruction to visibility between three
feet and ten feet in height.
   (E)   Structural elements.
      (1)   Fences, walls and retaining walls shall be constructed such that no
structural element faces a public street or neighboring property.
      (2)   The fence boards must be at least two inches above grade; however,
they must be situated such that a four-inch sphere cannot pass under them.
   (F)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      TYPES OF FENCES.
CHAIN LINK/ A fence constructed of chain link fabric that is finished at all edges,
CYCLONE     including a top and bottom rail.
FENCE
DEVELOPMENT A uniform fence, installed by the village, state, owners association,
FENCE       merchant’s association or developer that is within a development, along a
            common area (such as a school or park), or along a roadway.
            A human-made structure of wood, metal, masonry, plastic or other synthetic
            materials designed, used and erected and affixed to real estate for the
FENCE       purpose of defining, enclosing or separating any portion of the real estate
            from adjoining land whether or not such fence is located on the boundary
            line of the property to which it appertains. A FENCE may include gates.
HEDGE       Any group of plantings designed so as to define a property edge similar to
            the function of a fence.
OPEN FENCE  A fence which has over its entirety at least 40% of the surface area in
            open space when viewed at a right angle to the fence.
            A fence intended to guard federal or state regulated property against
PALISADE    unauthorized entry. The fence normally consists of vertical pickets
FENCE       attached to horizontal rails and may include pales to discourage scaling,
            but not including, barbed, razor or concertina wire.
PICKET      An open fence with spaces between vertically-run members (pickets). Pickets
FENCE       may not exceed three inches in width.
PRIVACY     A solid fence. The PRIVACY FENCE provides little or no space between
FENCE       members and all fence boards rub along the same plane.
            Any wall designed or used to change the grade of the yard by creating a
RETAINING   terrace or drop-off, commonly used to increase the level or useable area of
WALL        a yard. The term RETAINING WALL does not describe decorative edgings for
            planting beds, gardens or trees not located within drainage easements.
SHADOW BOX  A fence where vertical members are alternated on two different planes
FENCE       creating the overall look of a solid fence.
SOLID FENCE A SOLID FENCE has less than 40% of the surface area in open space when
            viewed at a right angle to the fence.
SPLIT-RAIL  An open fence with horizontal members running between vertical posts.
FENCE
WALL        An open or a solid fence constructed of masonry.
WROUGHT     An open fence constructed of wrought iron, other metal, PVC or anodized
IRON FENCE  aluminum possessing similar aesthetic characteristics.
 
      TYPES OF LOTS.
      (a)   The following chart demonstrates the different types of lots. The
arrow points in the direction of the front of the houses. (See definitions in §
157.003.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4671.png]
 
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, the following standards shall
apply.
            1.   If a through lot abuts a major street, back-to-back corner
yard provisions shall apply to the rear yard.
            2.   If a through lot abuts a minor street, reversed corner yard
provisions shall apply to the rear yard.
            3.   If a corner side yard abuts a through lot on a major street,
it shall be considered a back-to-back corner side yard.
            4.   If a corner side yard abuts a through lot on a minor street,
it shall be considered a reverse corner side yard.
            5.   The side yard abutting the street on a through lot shall be
considered a reverse corner yard.
      TYPES OF YARDS. The following chart demonstrates the different types of
lots. The arrow points in the direction of the front of the houses. (See
definitions in §
157.003.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4673.png]
 
   (G)   Types of fences permitted in residential districts. The types of
fences are dependent upon the type of yard. The following table identifies the
types of fences permitted in each yard:
Types of Fences Permitted
 Front Yard Reverse Corner Yard Back-to-Back Corner Yard Rear Yard Fences on
                                                         Interior Lots
Types of Fences Permitted
             Front Yard    Reverse Corner Back-to-Back  Rear Yard Fences on
                           Yard           Corner Yard   Interior Lots
Chain link/  Not Permitted Not Permitted  Not Permitted Permitted
cyclone**
Hedge***     Permitted     Permitted      Permitted     Permitted
Picket       Permitted     Permitted      Permitted     Permitted
Privacy      Not Permitted Not Permitted  Permitted*    Permitted*
Shadow box   Not Permitted Not Permitted  Permitted     Permitted
Split-rail   Permitted     Permitted      Permitted     Permitted
Walls        Not Permitted Not Permitted  Permitted*    Permitted*
Wrought iron Permitted     Permitted      Permitted     Permitted
Notes to Table
 
*   Chain link/cyclone fencing must be 11-gauge wire or heavier.
**   The setback is determined by the distance between the trunk or stem of
the shrub and the property line. The hedge may not overhang a public walk.
 
   (H)   Height of fences in residential districts. The fence height shall be
based on location. The following height restrictions shall apply:
 
Height Restrictions
               Front Yard Reverse Corner Back-to-Back Rear Yard Fences on
                          Yard           Corner Yard  Interior Lots
Maximum height 3 feet     3 feet         6 feet       6 feet
 
   (I)   Setback restrictions in residential districts. The fence setback shall
be based on location. The following setback restrictions shall apply:
 
Setback Restrictions**
                Front Yard Reverse Corner Back-to-Back Rear Yard Fences on
                           Yard           Corner Yard  Interior Lots
Minimum setback 1 foot*    1 foot         1 foot       None
Notes to Table
 
*   No front yard fences shall run parallel to the front lot line. Fences
are allowed along the side lot line.
**   In addition to the setbacks from the property lines, no fence may be
located (1) closer than 8 feet to the back of curb along a major street,
or (2) parallel and within 6 feet to an existing fence on the lot.
 
   (J)   Types of fences permitted in nonresidential districts.
      (1)   Any fence constructed within the P-B Zoning District will be
limited to a fence with a wrought iron appearance, full vinyl or a chain link
fence in which all portions of the fence are covered with a black vinyl
coating. Any vinyl fences will be constructed out of a low reflectance neutral
coloring.
      (2)   The types of fences shall be dependent upon the type of yard. The
following table identifies the types of fences permitted in each yard:
Types of Fences Permitted
 Front Yard Reverse Corner Yard Back-to-Back Corner Yard Rear Yard Fences on
                                                         Interior Lots4
Types of Fences Permitted
             Front Yard    Reverse Corner Back-to-Back       Rear Yard Fences
                           Yard           Corner Yard        on Interior Lots4
Chain link/  Not Permitted Not Permitted  Not Permitted      Permitted
cyclone2
Hedge3       Permitted     Permitted      Permitted          Permitted
Picket       Permitted     Permitted      Permitted          Permitted
Privacy      Not Permitted Not Permitted  Permitted1         Permitted1
                                          Permitted          Permitted
Snow         Not Permitted Not Permitted  (November to       (November to
                                          March)             March)
                                          Permitted (sports, Permitted (sports,
Specialty    Not Permitted Not Permitted  recreation and the recreation and the
                                          like)              like)
Split-rail   Permitted     Permitted      Permitted          Permitted
Walls        Not Permitted Not Permitted  Permitted1         Permitted1
Wrought iron Permitted     Permitted      Permitted          Permitted
Notes to Table
 
1   The village has the right to look at any and all installations to see if
there is any impact to drainage.
2   Chain link/cyclone fencing must be 11-gauge wire or heavier.
3   The setback is determined by the distance between the trunk or stem of the
shrub and the property line. The hedge may not overhang a public walk.
4   In the event that a lot backs onto a stormwater management facility, that
does not directly access a public property or right-of-way, a gate shall be
provided to allow access for inspection and maintenance of said stormwater
management facility.
 
   (K)   Height of fences in nonresidential districts. The fence height shall
be based on location. The following height restrictions shall apply:
 
Height Restrictions
               Front Yard Reverse Frontage Back-to-Back Rear Yard Fences on
                          Corner Yard      Corner Yard  Interior Lots
Maximum height 3 feet     3 feet           8 feet       8 feet
 
   (L)   Setback restrictions in nonresidential districts. The fence setback
shall be based on location. The following setback restrictions shall apply:
 
Setback Restrictions
                                                                   Rear Yard
        Front Yard             Reverse Frontage       Back-to-Back Fences on
                               Corner Yard            Corner Yard  Interior
                                                                   Lots
        Greater of:            Greater of:
Minimum 1’ to property line; 1’ to property line; None         None
setback 2’ to sidewalk; or   2’ to sidewalk; or
        5’ from curb         5’ from curb
Notes to Table:
 
*   No front yard fences shall run parallel to the front lot line. Fences
are allowed along the side lot line.
 
   (M)   Access for repair. The village, utility company or quasi-utility
company shall have the right, when necessary and convenient, to temporarily
remove any fence, wall, retaining wall, hedge, landscaping (including gardens)
and/or other accessory structures (sheds, pools and the like) to allow access
by its employees or contractors and equipment for the repair and maintenance of
any equipment or other facility situated within or on any platted utility
easement. In such cases the village, utility or quasi-utility shall not be held
responsible for the replacement or repair of any fence, wall, retaining wall or
hedge removed.
   (N)   Development fence.
      (1)   In the event that a development fence has been installed on a
property or along any property line, the property owner must maintain said
fence and may only replace it with fencing which matches in terms of color,
height, location, setback and design.
      (2)   (a)   Additionally, if a property abuts a common area or a major
street, and that property is located immediately between two other properties
also abutting the same common area or major street, any fencing installed in
the property in question must match the development fencing installed on both
neighboring properties if such development fencing on both such neighboring
properties is identical, or must match the development fencing installed on one
or the other of such neighboring properties in the event that the development
fencing on such neighboring properties is not identical.
         (b)   For purposes of the preceding sentence, fencing shall be deemed
to match other fencing when both fences in question:
            1.   Are of the same color, type and material;
            2.   Are of the same height; and
            3.   Are installed at the same setback from the relevant common
area or major street.
   (O)   Palisade fence. A fence intended to guard federal or state regulated
property against unauthorized entry. The fence normally consists of vertical
pickets attached to horizontal rails and may include pales to discourage
scaling but not including barbed, razor or concertina wire. These fences are
exempt for the height and setback requirements of this section and may follow
the applicable federal or state guidelines for height and location. An example
of a palisade fence is shown below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4675.png]
 
   (P)   Prohibited fences. The following fences shall not be permitted in any
zoning district:
      (1)   Barbed wire;
      (2)   Razor wire;
      (3)   Electrical charge (exceptions in division (Q) below);
      (4)   Slats;
      (5)   Mesh screening (exception: approved sites under development and
redevelopment are permitted); and
      (6)   Chicken wire.
   (Q)   Electrical charge fencing. Electrical charge fencing shall follow the
guidelines set in the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (R)   Amortization. All nonconforming fences, walls, retaining walls and
hedges shall be brought into compliance with all provisions of the zoning
ordinance when, for any reason, said fence, wall, retaining wall or hedge is
replaced.
(Prior Code, § 159.035) (Ord. 05-0284, passed 6-15-2005; Ord. 07-0554, passed
7-18-2007; Ord. 07-0594, passed 10-3-2007; Ord. 08-0715, passed 11-19-2008;
Ord. 09-0799, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 11-0926,
passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 15-1181, passed 3-18-2015; Ord. 15-1229, passed 11-18-
2015; Ord. 19-1533, passed 1-16-2019; Ord. 24-1906, passed 3-20-2024; Ord. 25-
1979, passed 4-16-2025) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.043 FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS.
      (A)   Intent and purpose. The regulations contained in this section,
governing the development and use of land subject to flooding, are established
for the following purposes:
      (1)   To avoid or lessen the hazards to persons or damage to property
resulting from the accumulation or runoff of storm and flood water;
      (2)   To protect the stream channels from encroachment;
      (3)   To maintain the capacity of the floodplain to retain flood waters;
      (4)   To provide for the development of floodplain lands with uses not
subject to severe damage by flooding and compatible with the other uses
permitted in the various zones;
      (5)   To permit only uses and improvements on floodplain lands that are
not hazardous during flood periods; and
      (6)   To avoid the creation of new flood problems.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Only the following uses are permitted in floodplains
regardless of the regulations of any zone established by this chapter:
      (1)   Agriculture;
      (2)   Arboretum or botanical garden;
      (3)   Archery range;
      (4)   Automobile parking lot (subject to the regulations contained in §§
157.120 through
157.126.
      (5)   Bulk material storage (any manufacturing district only. Materials
not to include flammable liquids or materials which may float or dissolve in
water);
      (6)   Contractors equipment storage (any manufacturing district only);
      (7)   Extraction of earth products;
      (8)   Flower farm;
      (9)   Grass or sod farm;
      (10)   Machinery storage yard (any manufacturing district only);
      (11)   Nursery, tree or shrub;
      (12)   Orchard;
      (13)   Park, public recreational; or
      (14)   Playground.
   (C)   Special uses. Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, after public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following:
      (1)   Camp, day;
      (2)   Club, outdoor recreational;
      (3)   Country club;
      (4)   Golf course;
      (5)   Golf driving range;
      (6)   Park, commercial recreational;
      (7)   Picnic grove; or
      (8)   Utility installation.
   (D)   Requirements and restrictions. Any permitted or special use listed
herein shall be subject to the provisions of the development regulations and
flood control ordinances of the village. This section does not supersede the
requirements contained within the development regulations or flood control
ordinance of the village; it shall be understood that the more restrictive
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 159.037) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.044 RESIDENTIAL ILLUMINATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The residential illumination standards are intended to
protect the public health and general welfare by controlling adverse impacts of
glare and light trespass associated with poorly shielded or inappropriately
directed lighting fixtures.
   (B)   Applicability. The residential illumination standards apply to all
residential zoning districts.
   (C)   Glare. Any outdoor lighting shall have the necessary shielding and/or
beam-angle control and must be directed, shaded, shielded or otherwise located,
designed and controlled so as to prevent glare on adjacent properties and
streets.
   (D)   Light spillage. All outdoor lighting must be designed, installed and
maintained to avoid the adverse impact of glare and light trespass associated
with poorly shielded or inappropriately directed lighting fixtures. Average
maintained foot-candles at the property line may not exceed 0.10 foot-candles.
The property line is the line bounding a lot from another lot or from a street.
(Prior Code, § 159.038) (Ord. 17-1419, passed 12-6-2017)
§ 157.045 SOLAR AND SMALL WIND ENERGY DEVICES.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. Uniform standards and procedures shall be
established to manage the development, siting, installation and operation of
solar energy collection conversion systems (SECS) and small wind energy systems
(SWES) to ensure that these devices are installed in a manner that will protect
and promote public health and safety and preserve the character of the village.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (SWES). A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine, a tower or post and associated controls of
conversion electronics that is located on the ground as an accessory use/
structure and with a nameplate capacity of less than 50 kilowatts for
residential systems and less than 100 kilowatts for nonresidential systems.
      SOLAR ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (SECS). Solar energy collection panels
are a type of photovoltaic (PV) system that collects energy from sunlight and
converts it into usable energy for a building.
   (C)   Solar energy conversion systems (SECS).
      (1)   Solar panels shall be permitted on any roof in any zoning district
as a permitted accessory use. No freestanding solar panels shall be allowed in
any residential district.
      (2)   All frame and visible structural parts of the panels shall be
neutral in color. No solar panel shall be artificially lighted.
      (3)   A building permit is required and the application shall conform to
electrical/building code for wind and load requirements.
      (4)   Solar panels shall be used primarily to generate energy for the
property where it is located.
      (5)   Roof coverage shall not exceed more than 50% of the total roof
surface of a structure.
      (6)   No solar panel shall be located closer than ten feet from an
adjacent property line.
      (7)   Solar panels shall be parallel with the roof line when possible
especially when visible from the right-of-way and shall not be elevated more
than 30 degrees off the roof pitch where it is attached or no more than five
feet whichever is less.
(Prior Code, § 159.039) (Ord. 17-1420, passed 12-6-2017) Penalty, see §
157.999
**** ZONING DISTRICTS ****
§ 157.060 A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the A-1 Agricultural District
with its intent to maintain existing farmland and certain related uses as
principal and primary uses of the land; to provide for the preservation of
fertile and tillable soils as a natural resource; to provide open areas which
contribute to the stability of the environment and enhancement of air and water
quality; and to provide for a continuation of the food supply for local
residents, county and state as well as the world.
(Prior Code, § 159.040)
§ 157.061 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted within the district:
   (A)   Agricultural activities:
      (1)   Farming, horticulture, forestry, crop and tree farming, truck
farming, gardening, dairy farming, stock raising, horse breeding, domestic
animals, poultry breeding and raising, together with the operation of any
machinery or vehicles incidental to the above uses;
      (2)   Research and/or experimental farms;
      (3)   Greenhouses and/or nurseries;
      (4)   Roadside stand for the display of agricultural products raised on
the premises but not including live animals and provided that the stand shall
contain not more than 600 square feet of floor area. Such stands or produce
offered for sale shall be located not less than 50 feet from the center line of
the highway, except a temporary roadside stand may be located not less than 20
feet from the nearest edge of pavement. They shall be placed at such locations
only during the harvest season of produce offered for sale and shall contain
not more than 200 square feet of floor area. Each roadside stand shall have
facilities approved by the Zoning Administrator for vehicle ingress and egress
and adequate off-street parking; and
      (5)   Farmer’s market.
   (B)   Residential uses:
      (1)   Farm homestead on a parcel which meets the site and structure
requirements within this district; and
      (2)   A single-family detached dwelling on a parcel which was legally
created consisting of five acres or more, recorded on or before the amendment
date of this chapter/section.
   (C)   Cemeteries, including any mausoleum located thereon;
   (D)   Public buildings erected by any governmental agency;
   (E)   Meeting halls and offices for agricultural, horticultural, rural or
public conservation agencies;
   (F)   One sign not larger than 20 square feet in area pertaining to the
sale, lease or identification of the premises on which it is located or the
sale of products produced thereon;
   (G)   Poultry farms;
   (H)   The storage and grinding of grain, farm products and machinery and
equipment related thereto;
   (I)   Truck gardening, nurseries, mushroom barns and apiaries;
   (J)   Waterways and such hydraulic power plants and terminals as may be
erected by the village, county, state or federal government or by the Greater
Metropolitan Sanitary District of Chicago;
   (K)   Golf courses, club houses and country clubs;
   (L)   Dog kennels not nearer than 500 feet to any zone, residential district
or an existing dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner or lessee of the
property;
   (M)   Essential services, such as: gas regulatory stations, telephone
exchanges, electric substations and well sites, which are not municipally-/
governmentally-owned;
   (N)   Transmission pipelines, utilities, easements and rights-of-way not
directly serving a specific premises, but used for the general transportation
of the pipelines, utilities, product or services;
   (O)   Railroad rights-of-way and passenger stations; and
   (P)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section as permitted uses, but
closely similar thereto; provided those uses are not explicitly mentioned as
permitted or special uses elsewhere in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 159.041) (Ord. 12-0984, passed 5-2-2012)
§ 157.062 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed by a “special use permit in accordance
with the provisions of §
157.226, and provided the uses are located on a lot of not less than five acres
with a minimum width of 400 feet and a minimum depth of 400 feet. If a “special
use permit” is granted and portions of the property are sold reducing the lot
size to less than four acres or reducing the width or depth of the property to
less than 400 feet, the “special use permit” will be deemed to have been
revoked concurrent to that action. The following uses are special uses within
the district:
   (A)   Mining or extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, topsoil or other
aggregates, including equipment, buildings or structures for screening,
crushing, mixing, washing or storage; provided that the following apply.
      (1)   No open pit or shaft will be less than 200 feet from any property
line or public roadway.
      (2)   All buildings or structures shall be located not less than 200 feet
from any property line.
      (3)   The borders of the property shall be fenced with a solid fence or
wall at least six feet in height when the property is adjacent to or across the
street from any district other than an industrial district.
      (4)   A plan of development for the reclamation of the land shall be
provided as part of the application for the special use permit. The plan of
development shall be accompanied by a written agreement between the owner or
his agent and the village and a performance bond in an amount equal to the cost
of the reclamation of the land as set forth in the development plan.
      (5)   No blasting or other use of explosives is permitted unless
specifically requested and authorized within the special use permit after the
required public hearing by the Planning and Zoning Commission (PZC). If
permitted by the Village Board, blasting must conform to the following
standards.
         (a)   The use handling and detonation of explosives (sometimes
referred to as “blasting”) in connection with said quarrying operations shall
be under the direct supervision of persons having the requisite experience and
knowledge to conduct such operations with safety. If such persons are hereafter
required to be licensed by any federal agency, state or county, such persons
shall meet the licensing requirements and obtain such license and furnish such
proof to the village.
         (b)   The storage of explosives shall be in accordance with all
applicable federal and state laws and regulations and shall be stored in
magazines, buildings or structures which shall meet the safety requirements of
such laws and regulations.
         (c)   Blasting procedures shall be in accordance with modern
techniques, generally accepted in the quarrying industry, whereby a shot shall
consist of a series of drill holes containing quantities of explosives fired or
detonated in sequence of multiple delays at intervals of milliseconds, so as to
counteract and reduce the ground motion or earthborne vibration from each
successive detonation (sometimes referred to as “short period delay blasting”).
Blasting procedures shall be designed, on the basis of maximum charge per delay
(that is, quantity of explosives in pounds per detonation) and distances in
feet, so that the maximum ground vibration intensity shall not exceed 0.5
inches per second of ground particle velocity resulting from any shot or blast
measured by any one of three mutually perpendicular planes of ground motion as
recorded at the nearest existing building.
         (d)   Blasting procedures shall be subject to and comply with the
applicable lawful requirements of the State Pollution Control Board, State
Department of Mines and Minerals, Mine Enforcement and Safety Administration
(MESA) of the United States Department of the Interior and any other
governmental agency having jurisdiction thereof.
         (e)   Blasting procedures shall be in conformity with approved safety
regulations, customs and practices generally accepted in the quarrying
industry, and the safety regulations of governmental agencies having
jurisdiction thereof.
         (f)   Compliance with the provision of these regulations governing
blasting procedures and quarrying operations shall be subject to review and
inspection from time to time by authorized village officials, upon reasonable
prior notice and during reasonable business hours.
         (g)   The actual detonation of any blast will be restrictive to the
local time period between 1:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday of
each week. No blasting shall take place on Sunday or on the following legal
holidays: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   (B)   Parks and forest preserves;
   (C)   Essential services, including, but not limited to: police and fire
stations, communication reception and transmission facilities, public
utilities, gas regulator stations, telephone exchanges and electric
substations;
   (D)   Membership riding clubs, including, but not limited to, polo clubs,
rodeo clubs and similar uses;
   (E)   Agribusiness uses:
      (1)   Riding stables, not nearer than 500 feet to any zoned residential
district or 500 feet from an existing dwelling other than the dwelling of the
owner or lessee of the site, but not less than 100 feet from any property line
of the owner or lessee of the site;
      (2)   Mechanized industrial animal farms;
      (3)   Buying or selling of livestock, but not a stockyard or a slaughter
house;
      (4)   Sale of farm supplies by farmers as agents, where grain elevators
or similar commercial facilities are not maintained on the farm premises;
      (5)   Agricultural implement sales and services;
      (6)   Grain storage, when not accessory to the pursuit of agriculture;
      (7)   Animal feed: preparation, grinding, mixing and storage; and
      (8)   Feed yards.
   (F)   Sanitary landfills, public or private; provided that the facilities
are not less than 1,000 feet from any residential use and potable municipal
well;
   (G)   Private schools or colleges;
   (H)   Convalescent or nursing homes;
   (I)   Railroad yards and shops;
   (J)   Hunting, fishing, game preserves and recreational clubs or camps;
   (K)   Floodplain development;
   (L)   Off-premises or outdoor advertising (billboard) sign, see requirements
contained in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
   (M)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section as special uses, but
closely similar thereto; provided those uses are not explicitly mentioned as
permitted or special uses elsewhere in this chapter;
   (N)   Personal communication facility (see § 157.028); and
   (O)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship.
(Prior Code, § 159.042) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007; Ord. 18-1482, passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.063 TEMPORARY USES.
   Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a permit
thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use: processing,
screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature connected
with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a specific
purpose is completed, are permitted under this classification after a permit is
obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective for a
period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for more
than one successive period at the same location.
(Prior Code, § 159.043) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.064 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special use may be
permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same ownership
and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural features
inconsistent with the permitted use or special use and do not involve the
conduct of any business, trade or industry.
   (B)   Accessory uses may include the following:
      (1)   Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the exclusive use of
residents or occupants of the premises (see §
157.027);
      (2)   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises, and not rented
or otherwise used as a separate dwelling;
      (3)   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and their
guests, that are setback from every property line at least ten feet and are not
to be located in the front yard;
      (4)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 12 square feet for each face that
are setback from every property line at least ten feet;
      (5)   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use and personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes; and
      (6)   Home occupations: see §
157.041.
(Prior Code, § 159.044) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007)
§ 157.065 SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. A separate ground area of not less than five acres
shall be designated, provided and continuously maintained for each structure or
land containing a permitted or special use.
   (B)   Minimum lot width/frontage. A minimum lot frontage of 500 feet shall
be provided for each lot used for a permitted or special use.
   (C)   Maximum lot depth. A maximum lot depth of not over three times the
width of the lot shall be permitted.
   (D)   Lot coverage. Lot coverage shall not exceed 5%.
   (E)   Building height. No principal building or structure shall exceed two
and one-half stories or 25 feet in height, and no accessory structure shall
exceed one story or 20 feet in height, except as provided for within a normal
farming operation.
   (F)   Setbacks. Yard area for principal building or structure setbacks are
as follows.
      (1)   Front yards, for all buildings or structures, shall be setback at
least 100 feet from the center line of all roadways.
      (2)   Side yards, for all buildings or structures, shall be set in from
the side lot line with a distance of not less than 20 feet on the least side,
with the sum of the two sides not less than 45 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards, for all buildings or structures, shall be setback a
distance of not less than 80 feet from the rear lot line.
   (G)   Floor area ratio. Not to exceed three tenths (0.3), as explained in §
157.003 under “floor area ratio;” and
   (H)   Minimum size of dwelling unit. Each single-family detached dwelling
and any other structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes
shall contain at least 1,000 square feet of floor area on the first floor if
one story, or 720 square feet of floor are on the first floor level if two
stories.
(Prior Code, § 159.045) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.066 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Off-street parking requirements. Parking requirements shall be in
accordance with the applicable regulations set forth in §§
157.120 through
157.126.
   (B)   Off-street loading/unloading requirements. Loading/unloading
requirements shall be in accordance with the applicable regulations set forth
in §§
157.140 through
157.144.
   (C)   Signage requirements. Sign requirements shall be in accordance with
the applicable regulations set forth in §§
157.155 through
157.167.
   (D)   Outdoor storage. All outdoor storage facilities for the principal
building or structure and its accessory uses and products shall be enclosed by
an architecturally pleasing fence, wall or planting materials adequate to
conceal the facilities.
   (E)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall conform with the regulations set forth
in §
157.037.
   (F)   Performance standards. All the activities shall conform with the
performance standards established and set forth in §§
157.029 through
157.034.
   (G)   Ingress/egress on the property. Access is limited to not more than one
point for the principal building or structures; however, accessory structures
on contiguous parcels of land solely dedicated to agricultural purposes may
also have one point of access to the adjacent roadway.
   (H)   Land use change.
      (1)   Upon the discontinuance of any permitted or special use, the new
use must make application to the village to have said site and landscape plans
reviewed by the village staff and Planning and Zoning Commission; and
      (2)   Documentation regarding use and bulk, lot coverage, street access,
parking requirements, accessory uses and landscaping all need to be submitted
to the village for review and approval by the Zoning Administrator, Planning
and Zoning Commission and Village Board of Trustees.
   (I)   Trucks. One commercial vehicle/equipment may be parked and must be
owned or legally controlled by the residents or occupants of the principal use
and located within the buildable area. Small pick-up trucks or vans used
principally as passenger cars are excluded from this requirement;
   (J)   Tents. Tents shall not be erected, used or maintained on any lot,
except such tents as are customarily used for temporarily recreation purposes;
and
   (K)   Horses and other animals. Horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, swine
or poultry may not be housed or stabled closer than 100 feet from any adjoining
property line or within 75 feet of a private well or septic system, when
allowed as a permitted or special use.
(Prior Code, § 159.046) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.067 P-1 PUBLIC/PRIVATE AND LAND CONSERVATION DISTRICT INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The P-1 Public/Private and Conservation Land District is intended to protect
the environment and hold as open space those properties shown as open land in
development plans, and as may be designated by the village’s comprehensive
plan. The P-1 District is intended to provide regulations for public land,
conservation lands and other open spaces.
(Prior Code, § 159.050)
§ 157.068 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted within the district:
   (A)   Public forest preserves;
   (B)   Public parks;
   (C)   Golf course, public or private, but not including miniature golf;
   (D)   Conservation and flood control areas;
   (E)   Marina for noncommercial watercraft;
   (F)   Public athletic fields;
   (G)   Public utility and governmental service uses:
      (1)   Electric distribution centers;
      (2)   Gas regulator stations; and
      (3)   Transmission structures and lines, wood poles, lines, underground
cables and electrical distribution sub-stations.
   (H)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section as permitted uses, but
closely similar thereto; provided those uses are not explicitly mentioned as
permitted or special uses elsewhere in this chapter;
   (I)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity;
   (J)   Farmer’s market; and
   (K)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship.
(Prior Code, § 159.051) (Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 12-0984, passed
5-2-2012; Ord. 18-1482, passed 5-16-2018)
§ 157.069 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed by a “special use permit” in accordance
with the provisions of §
157.226, and provided the uses are located on a lot of not less than five acres
with a minimum width of 400 feet and a minimum depth of 400 feet. If a special
use permit is granted and portions of the property are sold, reducing the lot
size to less than four acres or reducing the width or depth of the property to
less than 400 feet, the special use permit will be deemed to have been revoked
concurrent to that action:
   (A)   Campgrounds;
   (B)   Riding stables, not nearer than 500 feet to any zoned residential
district or 500 feet from an existing dwelling other than the dwelling of the
owner or lessee of the site, but not less than 100 feet from any property line
of the owner or lessee of the site;
   (C)   Cemeteries;
   (D)   Outdoor recreation, private or public, on a lot not less than five
acres in area;
   (E)   Public utility and governmental service uses. Lot areas and lot widths
for the following uses shall be as recommended by the Plan Commission and
approved by the Board of Trustees, and may be lesser or greater in area or
width than herein required in the district regulations:
      (1)   Fire stations;
      (2)   Police stations;
      (3)   Public buildings erected by any governmental agency;
      (4)   Radio and television towers and antennae;
      (5)   Transit and public transportation facilities, including passenger
shelters;
      (6)   Telephone exchange buildings, microwave relay towers and telephone
transmission equipment buildings;
      (7)   Water filtration plants, sewage treatment facilities, pumping
stations, reservoirs, towers and sanitary and storm sewers and lift stations;
and
      (8)   Personal communication facility (see §
157.028).
   (F)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section as special uses, but
closely similar thereto; provided those uses are not explicitly mentioned as
permitted or special uses elsewhere in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 159.052) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007)
§ 157.070 TEMPORARY USES.
   Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a permit
thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use: processing,
screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature connected
with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a specific
purpose is completed, are permitted under this classification after a permit is
obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective for a
period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for more
than one successive period at the same location.
(Prior Code, § 159.053)
§ 157.071 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses may include the following.
   (A)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special use may be
permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same ownership
and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural features
inconsistent with the permitted or special use and as regulated by §§
157.027 and
157.003 under “accessory building or use;” and
   (B)   Accessory uses may include the following:
      (1)   Off-street parking facilities, as regulated by §§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (2)   Signs in accordance with regulations set forth in §§
157.155 through
157.167; and
      (3)   Tent or fabric structures used by a public agency on publicly-owned
land for salt storage, sewage sludge storage and other similar uses.
(Prior Code, § 159.054) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 19-1555, passed
4-3-2019)
§ 157.072 SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. Except as may otherwise be provided, an area of not
less than one acre shall be provided for each permitted or special use located
on the parcel.
   (B)   Minimum lot width/frontage. A minimum width of 100 feet shall be
provided for each lot.
   (C)   Lot depth. A minimum depth of 200 feet shall be provided for each lot.
   (D)   Lot coverage. Lot coverage shall not exceed 30%.
   (E)   Building height. No building or structure shall be erected or altered
to exceed a maximum height of 25 feet or two stories whichever is less.
   (F)   Setbacks. Yard area setbacks for principal building or structure shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Front yard: not less than 50 feet front the front property line;
      (2)   Side yard: not less than 25 feet from each side property line; and
      (3)   Rear yard: not less than 30 feet from the rear property line.
   (G)   Floor area ratio. Floor area ratio shall not exceed three tenths
(0.3).
   (H)   Minimum size of dwelling unit. Each single-family detached dwelling
and any other structure occupied in whole or in part for residential purposes
shall contain at least 1,000 square feet of floor area on the first floor if
one story, or 720 square feet of floor are on the first floor level if two
stories.
(Prior Code, § 159.055)
§ 157.073 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Off-street parking requirements. Parking requirements shall be in
accordance with the applicable regulations set forth in §§
157.120 through
157.126.
   (B)   Off-street loading/unloading requirements. Loading/unloading
requirements shall be in accordance with the applicable regulations set forth
in §§
157.140 through
157.144.
   (C)   Signage requirements. Sign requirements shall be in accordance with
the applicable regulations set forth in §§
157.155 through
157.167.
   (D)   Outdoor storage. All outdoor storage facilities for the principal
building or structure and its accessory uses and products shall be enclosed by
an architecturally pleasing fence, wall or planting materials adequate to
conceal the facilities.
   (E)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall conform with the regulations set forth
in §
157.037
   (F)   Performance standards. All the activities shall conform with the
performance standards established and set forth in §§
157.029 through
157.034.
   (G)   Ingress/egress on the property. Access is limited to not more than one
point for the principal building or structures; however, accessory structures
on contiguous parcels of land solely dedicated to agricultural purposes may
also have one point of access to the adjacent roadway.
   (H)   Land use change.
      (1)   Upon the discontinuance of any permitted or special use, the new
use must make application to the village to have said site and landscape plans
reviewed by the village staff and Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (2)   Documentation regarding use and bulk, lot coverage, street access,
parking requirements, accessory uses and landscaping all need to be submitted
to the village for review and approval by the Zoning Administrator, Planning
and Zoning Commission and Village Board of Trustees.
   (I)   Trucks. One commercial vehicle/equipment may be parked and must be
owned or legally controlled by the residents or occupants of the principal use
and located within the buildable area. Small pick-up trucks or vans used
principally as passenger cars are excluded from this requirement.
   (J)   Tents. Tents shall not be erected, used or maintained on any
privately-owned lot, except such tents as are customarily used for temporarily
recreation purposes. Tents are permitted on publicly-owned lots as set forth in
the accessory uses section, §
157.071.
   (K)   Horses and other animals. Horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, swine
or poultry may not be housed or stabled closer than 100 feet from any adjoining
property line when allowed as a permitted or special use.
(Prior Code, § 159.056) (Ord. 19-1555, passed 4-3-2019)
§ 157.074 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The residential districts set forth herein are
established to promote the public health; to promote public safety, comfort,
convenience and the general welfare; and to protect the economic base of the
village and the value of property.
   (B)   Existing buildings. Existing buildings shall not be enlarged,
reconstructed, structurally altered, converted or relocated in such a manner as
to conflict or further conflict with the bulk regulations of the district in
which such buildings are or are to be located.
   (C)   Established setbacks. When the established setback is of a depth other
than herein required for a front or side yard in the district in which the lot
is located and where the contiguous street is not designated on the official
map for right-of-way widening, the setback for each remaining lot along such
street shall be the average of the setbacks already established on one of the
adjacent lots, the setback for that lot shall be the average of the required
yard depths and the established setback on the lot adjacent thereto.
   (D)   Established lots of record. A lot of record on the effective date of
this subchapter in a residence district which is unable to meet the
requirements of this zoning code as to lot area and lot width may be used for a
single-family detached dwelling provided it meets all other requirements of the
zoning code.
   (E)   Special provisions.
      (1)   Off-street parking. All off-street parking required within any
residential district shall be in accordance with the applicable regulations as
set forth in §§
157.125,
157.126,
157.140 and
157.141.
      (2)   Signage requirements. All signage in any residential district shall
be in accordance with the applicable regulations set forth in §§
157.155 through
157.167.
      (3)   Outdoor storage. All outdoor storage in any residential district
for the principal building or structure and its accessory uses or structures
shall be stored within the limits of the buildings or structures on the
property. Any outdoor storage of materials not customarily found in a
residential district is prohibited.
      (4)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be according to the individual
homeowner’s desires, so long as it is keeping with the character of the
neighborhood. Licensing and bonding of contractors shall be in accordance with
Chapter 117. Certificate of completion shall also be required to be issued by
the village for multiple-family developments.
      (5)   Ingress/egress on the property. Access is limited to not more than
one point for the principal buildings/structures and accessory uses structures
on the premises. If the property is a corner lot, the property is still limited
to only one ingress/egress point.
      (6)   Documentation. All new subdivisions shall provide documentation for
preliminary and plats of subdivisions outlined by the development regulations,
Chapter 156. In addition to those requirements, the applicants shall provide a
landscape plan for the entire development.
   (F)   Residential site and structure requirements.
Summary Table — Residential Site and Structure Requirements
         Lot  Lot Width Lot           Maximum  Maximum  Minimum
Zoning   Area (Interior Width   Lot   Building Lot      Landscape F.A.R. Building
District (Sq. Lot)      (Corner Depth Coverage Coverage Coverage         Height
         Ft.)           Lot)
Summary Table — Residential Site and Structure Requirements
                                          Lot            Maximum  Maximum  Minimum
Zoning      Lot Area  Lot Width (Interior Width    Lot   Building Lot      Landscape F.A.R.   Building
District    (Sq. Ft.) Lot)                (Corner  Depth Coverage Coverage Coverage           Height
                                          Lot)
                                                                                              2-1/
E-R Estate                                                                                    2
Residential 43,560    200’              240’   200’40%      50%      50%       0.60     stories
                                                                                              or 30
                                                                                              feet
                                                                                              2-1/
R-1 Single-                                                                                   2
Family      20,000    120’              165’   160’40%      50%      50%       0.60     stories
Residential                                                                                   or 30
                                                                                              feet
                                                                                              2-1/
R-2 Single-                                                                                   2
Family      15,000    100’              125’   150’40%      50%      50%       0.60     stories
Residential                                                                                   or 30
                                                                                              feet
                                                                                              2-1/
R-3 Single-                                                                                   2
Family      10,000    80’               105’   125’40%      50%      50%       0.60     stories
Residential                                                                                   or 30
                                                                                              feet
                                                                                              2-1/
R-4 Single-                                                                                   2
Family      8,000     75’               95’    105’40%      50%      50%       0.60     stories
Residential                                                                                   or 30
                                                                                              feet
                                                                                              2-1/
R-5 Single-                                                                                   2
Family      6,500     65’               85’    100’40%      50%      50%       0.65     stories
Residential                                                                                   or 30
                                                                                              feet
R-5A                                                                                          2-1/
Single-                                                                                       2
Family      6,500     60’               80’    100’40%      50%      50%       0.65     stories
Residential                                                                                   or 30
                                                                                              feet
            Detached
            - 8,000
R-          Attached:                     Detached                                            2-1/
6 Attached  4-bedroom Detached - 75’    - 95’                                             2
Single-     - 6,000   Attached - 55’    Attached 90’ 40%      50%      50%       0.65     stories
Family      3-bedroom                     - 75’                                             or 30
Residential - 5,500                                                                           feet
            2-bedroom
            - 4,500
            Detached
            - 8,000
R-          Attached:                                                                         3-1/
7 Multiple- 3-bedroom                                                                         2
Family      - 5,000   50’               70’    80’ 40%      50%      50%       0.65     stories
Residential 2-bedroom                                                                         or 40
            - 4,500                                                                           feet
            1-bedroom
            - 3,500
E-R Estate  50’     20’               50’    40’ N/A      1,800    2,000     2,400    2,800
Residential
R-1 Single-
Family      40’     15’               40’    30’ N/A      1,600    1,825     2,000    2,200
Residential
R-2 Single-
Family      35’     15’               35’    30’ N/A      1,375    1,600     1,825    2,000
Residential
R-3 Single-
Family      30’     10’               30’    25’ N/A      1,200    1,500     1,800    2,000
Residential
R-4 Single-
Family      25’     10’               25’    25’ N/A      1,200    1,375     1,600    1,800
Residential
R-5 Single-
Family      25’     5’/15’          25’    20’ N/A      1,100    1,200     1,300    N/A
Residential
R-5A
Single-     22’     5’                20’    20’ N/A      1,100    1,200     1,300    N/A
Family
Residential
R-                                                                Detached Detached  Detached Detached
6 Attached            Detached - 5’/15’                       - 2,000  - 2,000   - 2,000  - 2,000
Single-     25’     Attached - 10’    20’    25’ N/A      Attached Attached  Attached Attached
Family                                                            - 1,600  - 1,700   - 1,800  - N/A
Residential
R-
7 Multiple- 25’     Attached - 20’    20’    25’ 700      900      1,100     N/A      N/A
Family                Multi-Family - 20’
Residential
Notes to Table
 
All numbers reflect minimum requirements; except building coverage, lot coverage and building heights,
which are maximum requirements.
 
   (G)   Land use chart.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4679.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4681.png]
 
   (H)   Building design guidelines.
      (1)   Facades.
         (a)   The primary facade of each home shall face the public street.
         (b)   Facades must be articulated. Articulation may take the form of
staggering the wall of the building as well as through porches, bay or bow
windows and balconies.
         (c)   All building facades must be constructed primarily of brick or
stone. High quality accent materials, such as cedar siding and vinyl siding
(0.46 minimum thickness), may be incorporated into the design provided that
they do not cumulatively cover more than 25% of the primary facade and that
they do not cumulatively cover more than 50% of any other facade.
      (2)   Architectural detail.
         (a)   The primary facade must include at least two of the following
architectural elements. Any other street-facing facade must include at least
one of the following architectural elements:
            1.   Porches (minimum five-foot projection);
            2.   Second-story balconies (minimum five-foot projection) or
balconets;
            3.   Roof overhangs (minimum one-foot projection);
            4.   Bay or bow windows;
            5.   Cantilevered windows;
            6.   Chimney breasts;
            7.   Copper design elements, including accent roofs (copper
flashing to brick exterior must be wraggle cut/saw cut into brick and
remortered) and copper gutter flashing;
            8.   Stone accent pieces; or
            9.   Pediments over windows and doors.
         (b)   The elements must be incorporated into the design of the
buildings so that they are compatible with the building’s architectural style
and also harmonious with the architecture and scale of the neighborhood.
      (3)   Entrances.
         (a)   The primary entry and door to each structure shall face the
public street.
         (b)   Tunnel-like entrances shall be avoided. No entry shall be
recessed more than six feet from the face of the primary facade, exclusive of
porches.
      (4)   Fenestration.
         (a)   Windows shall be incorporated into all facades.
         (b)   Windows must cover 15% of the facade area. No section of blank
wall may exist that is greater than 15 linear feet without being interrupted by
a window. This standard applies to living areas as well as to accessory
structures such as garages and sheds.
      (5)   Parking/garages.
         (a)   Off-street guest parking areas must be incorporated into the
design of all developments with six or more dwelling units. One parking space
shall be provided for each three homes, to a maximum of ten parking spaces.
This requirement excludes any parking that may be provided on driveways.
         (b)   A minimum two-car garage shall be incorporated into each
dwelling unit.
         (c)   The garage shall be designed so as not to dominate the primary
facade of the building. Garages may be located as follows:
            1.   Set back six feet from the primary facade of the building;
            2.   Side loaded with windows along the primary facade and elements
to give a uniform appearance with the rest of the dwelling; and
            3.   Projecting no more than four feet in front of the primary
facade but must include living space (with windows) above.
         (d)   All garage doors must include raised panels and windows in order
to reduce their monotonous appearance.
         (e)   Garage doors must be recessed a minimum of eight inches from the
face of the garage so as to cast a shadow on the door thereby reducing its
appearance.
      (6)   Roofing.
         (a)   Roofs must be covered in architectural shingles (300 pounds),
slate roof, clay tile or laminated clay tile replica.
         (b)   The color of roof-top vents must match the roofing material.
      (7)   Landscaping.
         (a)   Foundation landscaping consisting of shade and ornamental trees,
evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, flowers and/or other live planting materials
shall be incorporated around all buildings. Particular attention shall be paid
toward screening mechanical equipment softening large expanses of building
walls; and accenting entrances and architectural features of the unit(s).
         (b)   Clusters of landscaping shall be planted strategically in rear
and side yards of townhouses to provide privacy to residents. Whenever
possible, landscaping should be used to minimize views directly into neighbors
windows.
         (c)   An irrigation system shall be installed in all landscape areas.
      (8)   Anti-monotony.
         (a)   No two single-family dwellings of identical front elevation, or
facade, shall be constructed or located on adjacent lots, nor shall there be
constructed or located more than 15% of single-family dwellings of the same
elevation or facade in any block. A change in front elevation or facade shall
be deemed to exist when there is a substantial difference in roof line, type
and location of windows and/or kind and arrangement of materials.
         (b)   There shall not be constructed or located more than 15% of
townhomes/single-family attached dwellings of the same elevation or facade on
any block. A change in the front elevation or facade shall be deemed to exist
when there is a substantial difference in roof line, type and location of
windows and/or kind and arrangement of material.
      (9)   Possible variance process.
         (a)   Residential buildings or structures which demonstrate
exceptional architectural merit and an intention to provide diversification to
the housing stock of the village may, upon application made to the Village
Board of Trustees, be granted a variance from the provisions of this section
requiring the use of particular materials for exterior finishes to allow the
use of different materials or to allow the use of a different percentage or
proportion of the materials otherwise required in the exterior finish of such a
structure, but no such variance shall be available or granted to allow the use
of aluminum siding, or imitation brick or stone sheeting.
         (b)   Furthermore, and without otherwise limiting any term or
provision of this section, or of any amendment thereto, any person proposing to
construct any accessory structure that demonstrates either architectural merit,
planning excellence or a commitment to diversifying the housing stock of the
village may upon application made to the Village Board be granted a variance
from the provisions of this section regarding the use of particular materials
for exterior finishes to allow the use of different materials or to allow the
use of a different percentage or proportion of materials otherwise required for
the exterior finish of such structure; provided that the Village Board
determines, based upon evidence presented by the applicant, that the proposed
variance will not alter the essential character of the neighborhood in which
the property is located, that the proposed variance will not be injurious to
other property in the neighborhood in which the property is located and that
the proposed variance will not substantially diminish or impair property values
within the neighborhood in which the property is located.
(Prior Code, § 159.060) (Ord. 05-0285, passed 6-15-2005; Ord. 06-0369, passed
2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0555, passed 7-18-2007; Ord. 08-0653, passed 5-21-2008)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.075 E-R ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (43,560 SQUARE FEET).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The E-R District is intended to provide areas for
large lot single-family development. It should be located in areas where
floodplains and other natural features need to be preserved or protected; where
the extension of public water and sewer services would not be practical; but
also where the land area would allow the placement of well and septic
facilities.
   (B)   Permitted uses (see land use chart, §
157.074(G)). The following uses are permitted within the E-R District:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (2)   Home occupations, as regulated in §
157.041;
      (3)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly-owned
and operated;
      (4)   Golf courses;
      (5)   Off-street parking, as regulated in §§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (6)   Signs, as regulated in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (7)   Accessory uses, as regulated in §
157.027 and as outlined within this section;
      (8)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period of time
not to exceed construction or not more than 24 months, whichever is less,
unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (9)   Public utility facilities, as defined in the State Act entitled,
“An Act Concerning Public Utilities,” see 220 ILCS 5/3-105;
      (10)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity; and
      (11)   Public service uses, including:
         (a)   Filtration plants, pumping stations and water reservoirs; and
         (b)   Police, fire stations and any public building erected by any
governmental agency.
   (C)   Special uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, after
public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
157.226, special uses, the corporate authorities of the village may, by
“special use permit,” allow the following in the E-R District:
      (1)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
      (2)   Private recreation areas or camps;
      (3)   Radio and television towers;
      (4)   College and universities, including dormitory facilities,
fraternities, sororities and other accessory buildings when located on the same
grounds as the college or university;
      (5)   Schools (elementary and secondary), including playgrounds and
athletic fields auxiliary thereto;
      (6)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship;
      (7)   Seminaries, convents, monasteries and similar religious
institutions;
      (8)   Public service uses, including:
         (a)   Telephone exchange facilities; and
         (b)   Electric substations and booster stations.
      (9)   Day or nursery schools, public or private;
      (10)   Planned residential or institutional developments, under single
ownership or control, in which incidental business or recreational facilities
for the convenience of the occupants may be furnished. For such developments,
the Village Board may vary the bulk regulations of this subchapter; provided
the variations are consistent with the general purpose and intent of this
subchapter, and as set forth in §§
157.200 through
157.209, and will result in better site planning and thus be of greater benefit
both to the occupants of the development and the surrounding areas;
      (11)   Funeral homes;
      (12)   Kennels;
      (13)   Stables; and
      (14)   Personal communication facility. (See §
157.028.)
   (D)   Temporary uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a
permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use:
processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature
connected with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a
specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this classification after a
permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective
for a period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for
more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).)
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use and do not involve
the conduct of any business, trade or industry.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the exclusive use
of residents or occupants of the premises. (See §
157.027.);
         (b)   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises, and not
rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling;
         (c)   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and
their guests, that are setback from every property line at least ten feet and
not located in the front yard;
         (d)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 12 square feet for each face
that are setback from every property line at least ten feet; and
         (e)   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use and personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. The minimum area for each lot shall be not less
than 43,560 square feet (one acre).
      (2)   Lot width/frontage. The minimum lot width for each lot shall be not
less than 200 feet. Corner lots shall be not less than 240 feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 200 feet.
      (4)   Building coverage. Building coverage shall not exceed 40%.
      (5)   Building height. No building within the E-R District hereinafter
constructed shall exceed 30 feet in height to the highest roof peak, or two and
one-half stories, whichever is less.
      (6)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 50 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than 20 feet for each side yard
from the property line. Corner side yards shall be not less than 50 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 40 feet from the property
line.
      (7)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed six tenths (0.6).
      (8)   Minimum dwelling unit size.
         (a)   Two or fewer bedrooms, 1,800 square feet;
         (b)   Three bedrooms, 2,000 square feet;
         (c)   Four bedrooms, 2,400 square feet; and
         (d)   Five or more bedrooms, 2,800 square feet.
      (9)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
      (10)   Minimum landscape coverage. The minimum landscape coverage shall
be 50%.
(Prior Code, § 159.061) (Ord. 05-0285, passed 6-15-2005; Ord. 06-0369, passed
2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 08-0698, passed 8-20-2008; Ord.
09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 18-1482,
passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.076 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (20,000 SQUARE FEET).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The R-1 District is intended to provide areas for
medium sized single-family development. It should be designed to allow for the
placement of adjoining commercial districts, school and park sites and other
amenities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) The following uses are permitted within the R-1 District:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (2)   Home occupations, as regulated in §
157.041;
      (3)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly-owned
and operated;
      (4)   Off-street parking, as regulated in §§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (5)   Signs, as regulated in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (6)   Accessory uses, as regulated in §
157.027 and within this section;
      (7)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period of time
not to exceed construction or not more than 24 months, whichever is less,
unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (8)   Public utility facilities, as defined in the State Act entitled,
“An Act Concerning Public Utilities,” see 220 ILCS 5/3-105; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity.
   (C)   Special uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, after
public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
157.226, special uses, the corporate authorities of the village may, by
“special use permit” allow the following in the R-1 District:
      (1)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
      (2)   Private recreation areas or camps;
      (3)   Schools (elementary and secondary), including playgrounds and
athletic fields auxiliary thereto;
      (4)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship;
      (5)   Public service uses, including:
         (a)   Filtration plants, pumping stations and water reservoirs;
         (b)   Police, fire stations and any public building erected by any
governmental agency;
         (c)   Telephone exchange facilities; and
         (d)   Electric substations and booster stations.
      (6)   Day or nursery schools, public or private;
      (7)   Family day care homes as defined by §
157.003;
      (8)   Planned residential or institutional developments, under single
ownership or control, in which incidental business or recreational facilities
for the convenience of the occupants may be furnished. For such developments,
the Village Board may vary the bulk regulations of this subchapter; provided
the variations are consistent with the general purpose and intent of this
subchapter, and as set forth in §§
157.200 through
157.209, and will result in better site planning and thus be of greater benefit
both to the occupants of the development and the surrounding areas; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility. (See §
157.028.)
   (D)   Temporary uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a
permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use:
processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature
connected with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a
specific purpose is completed are permitted under this classification after a
permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective
for a period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for
more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).)
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use and do not involve
the conduct of any business, trade or industry.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the exclusive use
of residents or occupants of the premises (see §
157.027);
         (b)   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and
their guests, that are setback from every property line at least ten feet and
not located in the front yard;
         (c)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 12 square feet for each face
that are setback from every property line at least ten feet; and
         (d)   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use and personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Lot area. The minimum area for each lot shall be not less than
20,000 square feet (0.46 acres).
      (2)   Lot width/frontage. The minimum lot width for each lot shall be not
less than 120 feet. Corner lots shall be not less than 165 feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 160 feet.
      (4)   Building coverage. Building coverage shall not exceed 40%.
      (5)   Building height. No building within the R-1 District hereinafter
constructed shall exceed 30 feet in height to the highest roof peak, or two and
one-half stories, whichever is less.
      (6)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 40 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than 15 feet for each side yard
from the property line. Corner side yards shall be not less than 40 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 30 feet from the property
line.
      (7)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed six tenths (0.6).
      (8)   Minimum dwelling unit size.
         (a)   Two or fewer bedrooms: 1,600 square feet;
         (b)   Three bedrooms: 1,825 square feet;
         (c)   Four bedrooms: 2,000 square feet; and
         (d)   Five bedrooms: 2,200 square feet.
      (9)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
      (10)   Minimum landscape coverage. The minimum landscape coverage shall
be 50%.
(Prior Code, § 159.062) (Ord. 05-0285, passed 6-15-2005; Ord. 06-0369, passed
2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 08-0698, passed 8-20-2008; Ord.
09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 18-1482,
passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.077 R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (15,000 SQUARE FEET).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The R-2 District is intended to reflect
contemporary design standards in housing developments. Developments within this
district should be so planned as to allow for the placement of local commercial
districts, school and park sites and other amenities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) The following uses are permitted within the R-2 District:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (2)   Home occupations, as regulated in §
157.041;
      (3)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly-owned
and operated;
      (4)   Off-street parking, as regulated in §§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (5)   Signs, as regulated in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (6)   Accessory uses, as regulated in §
157.027;
      (7)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period of time
not to exceed construction or not more than 24 months, whichever is less,
unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (8)   Public utility facilities, as defined in the State Act entitled,
“An Act Concerning Public Utilities,” see 220 ILCS 5/3-105; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity.
   (C)   Special uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, after
public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the R-2 District:
      (1)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
      (2)   Private recreation areas or camps;
      (3)   Schools (elementary and secondary), including playgrounds and
athletic fields auxiliary thereto;
      (4)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship;
      (5)   Public service uses, including:
         (a)   Filtration plants, pumping stations and water reservoirs;
         (b)   Police, fire stations and any public building erected by any
governmental agency;
         (c)   Telephone exchange facilities; and
         (d)   Electric substations and booster stations.
      (6)   Day or nursery schools, public or private;
      (7)   Family day care homes, as defined by §
157.003;
      (8)   Planned residential or institutional developments, under single
ownership or control, in which incidental business or recreational facilities
for the convenience of the occupants may be furnished. For such developments,
the Village Board may vary the bulk regulations of this subchapter; provided
the variations are consistent with the general purpose and intent of this
subchapter, and as set forth in §§
157.200 through
157.209, and will result in better site planning and thus be of greater benefit
both to the occupants of the development and the surrounding areas; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility. (See §
157.028.)
   (D)   Temporary uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a
permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use:
processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature
connected with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a
specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this classification after a
permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective
for a period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for
more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).)
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use and do not involve
the conduct of any business, trade or industry.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the exclusive use
of residents or occupants of the premises (see §
157.027);
         (b)   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and
their guests, that are setback from every property line at least ten feet and
not located in the front yard;
         (c)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 12 square feet for each face
that are setback from every property line at least ten feet; and
         (d)   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use and personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Lot area. The minimum area for each lot shall be not less than
15,000 square feet (0.34 acres).
      (2)   Lot width/frontage. The minimum lot width for each lot shall be not
less than 100 feet. Corner lots shall be not less than one hundred 125 feet in
width.
      (3)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 150 feet.
      (4)   Building coverage. Building coverage shall not exceed 40%.
      (5)   Building height. No building within the R-2 District hereinafter
constructed shall exceed 30 feet in height to the highest roof peak, or two and
one-half stories, whichever is less.
      (6)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 35 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than 15 feet for each side yard
from the property line. Corner side yards shall be not less than 35 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 30 feet from the property
line.
      (7)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed six tenths (0.6).
      (8)   Minimum dwelling unit size. Minimum dwelling unit sizes:
         (a)   Two or fewer bedrooms: 1,375 square feet;
         (b)   Three bedrooms: 1,600 square feet;
         (c)   Four bedrooms: 1,825 square feet; and
         (d)   Five or more bedrooms: 2,000 square feet.
      (9)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
      (10)   Minimum landscape coverage. The minimum landscape coverage shall
be 50%.
(Prior Code, § 159.063) (Ord. 05-0285, passed 6-15-2005; Ord. 06-0369, passed
2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 08-0698, passed 8-20-2008; Ord.
09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 18-1482,
passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.078 R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (10,000 SQUARE FEET).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The R-3 District is intended to reflect
contemporary design standards in housing development. While the district allows
for smaller lot sizes, it is anticipated that developments within this district
will provide for greater amenities such as increased open space, recreational
facilities, pedestrian access and other improvements.
   (B)   Permitted uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) The following uses are permitted within the R-3 District:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (2)   Home occupations, as regulated in §
157.041;
      (3)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly-owned
and operated;
      (4)   Off-street parking, as regulated in §§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (5)   Signs, as regulated in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (6)   Accessory uses, as regulated in §
157.027;
      (7)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period of time
not to exceed construction or not more than 24 months, whichever is less,
unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (8)   Public utility facilities, as defined in the State Act entitled,
“An Act Concerning Public Utilities,” see 220 ILCS 5/3-105; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity.
   (C)   Special uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, after
public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the R-3 District:
      (1)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
      (2)   Private recreation areas or camps;
      (3)   Schools (elementary and secondary), including playgrounds and
athletic fields auxiliary thereto;
      (4)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship;
      (5)   Public service uses, including:
         (a)   Filtration plants, pumping stations and water reservoirs;
         (b)   Police, fire stations and any public building erected by any
governmental agency;
         (c)   Telephone exchange facilities; and
         (d)   Electric substations and booster stations.
      (6)   Day or nursery schools, public or private;
      (7)   Family day care homes, as defined by §
157.003;
      (8)   Planned residential or institutional developments, under single
ownership or control, in which incidental business or recreational facilities
for the convenience of the occupants may be furnished. For such developments,
the Village Board may vary the bulk regulations of this subchapter; provided
the variations are consistent with the general purpose and intent of this
subchapter, and as set forth in §§
157.200 through
157.209, and will result in better site planning and thus be of greater benefit
both to the occupants of the development and the surrounding areas; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility (see §
157.028).
   (D)   Temporary uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a
permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use:
processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature
connected with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a
specific purpose is completed are permitted under this classification after a
permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective
for a period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for
more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use and do not involve
the conduct of any business, trade or industry. Accessory uses may include the
following:
      (1)   Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the exclusive use of
residents or occupants of the premises (see §
157.027);
      (2)   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and their
guests, that are setback from every property line at least ten feet and not
located in the front yard;
      (3)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 12 square feet for each face that
are setback from every property line at least ten feet; and
      (4)   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use and personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Lot area. The minimum area for each lot shall be not less than
10,000 square feet (0.23 acres).
      (2)   Lot width/frontage. The minimum lot width for each lot shall be not
less than 80 feet. Corner lots shall be not less than 105 feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 125 feet.
      (4)   Building coverage. Building coverage shall not exceed 40%.
      (5)   Building height. No building within the R-3 District hereinafter
constructed shall exceed 30 feet in height to the highest roof peak, or two and
one-half stories, whichever is less.
      (6)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 30 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than ten feet for each side yard
from the property line. Corner side yards shall be not less than 30 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 25 feet from the property
line.
      (7)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed six tenths (0.6).
      (8)   Minimum dwelling unit size.
         (a)   Two or fewer bedrooms: 1,200 square feet;
         (b)   Three bedrooms: 1,500 square feet;
         (c)   Four bedrooms: 1,800 square feet; and
         (d)   Five or more bedrooms: 2,000 square feet.
      (9)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
      (10)   Minimum landscape coverage. The minimum landscape coverage shall
be 50%.
(Prior Code, § 159.064) (Ord. 05-0285, passed 6-15-2005; Ord. 06-0369, passed
2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 08-0698, passed 8-20-2008; Ord.
09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 18-1482,
passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.079 R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (8,000 SQUARE FEET).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The R-4 District is intended to reflect
contemporary design standards in housing development. While the district allows
for smaller lot sizes, it is anticipated that developments within this district
will provide for greater amenities, such as increased open space, recreational
facilities, pedestrian access and other improvements.
   (B)   Permitted uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) The following uses are permitted within the R-4 District:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (2)   Home occupations, as regulated in § 158.041;
      (3)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly-owned
and operated;
      (4)   Off-street parking, as regulated in §§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (5)   Signs, as regulated in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (6)   Accessory uses, as regulated in §
157.027;
      (7)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period of time
not to exceed construction or not more than 24 months, whichever is less,
unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (8)   Public utility facilities, as defined in the State Act entitled,
“An Act Concerning Public Utilities,” see 220 ILCS 5/3-105; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity.
   (C)   Special uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, after
public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the R-4 District:
      (1)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
      (2)   Private recreation areas or camps;
      (3)   Schools (elementary and secondary), including playgrounds and
athletic fields auxiliary thereto;
      (4)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship;
      (5)   Public service uses, including:
         (a)   Filtration plants, pumping stations and water reservoirs;
         (b)   Police, fire stations and any public building erected by any
governmental agency;
         (c)   Telephone exchange facilities; and
         (d)   Electric substations and booster stations.
      (6)   Day or nursery schools, public or private;
      (7)   Family day care homes, as defined by §
157.003;
      (8)   Planned residential or institutional developments, under single
ownership or control, in which incidental business or recreational facilities
for the convenience of the occupants may be furnished. For such developments,
the Village Board may vary the bulk regulations of this subchapter; provided
the variations are consistent with the general purpose and intent of this
subchapter, and as set forth in §§
157.200 through
157.209, and will result in better site planning and thus be of greater benefit
both to the occupants of the development and the surrounding areas; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility. (See §
157.028.)
   (D)   Temporary uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a
permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use:
processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature
connected with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a
specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this classification after a
permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective
for a period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for
more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).)
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use and do not involve
the conduct of any business, trade or industry.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the exclusive use
of residents or occupants of the premises (see §
157.027);
         (b)   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and
their guests that are setback from every property line at least ten feet and
not located in the front yard;
         (c)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 12 square feet for each face
that are setback from every property line at least ten feet; and
         (d)   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use and personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Lot area. The minimum area for each lot shall be not less than
8,000 square feet (0.18 acres).
      (2)   Lot width/frontage. The minimum lot width for each lot shall be not
less than 75 feet. Corner lots shall be not less than 95 feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 105 feet.
      (4)   Building coverage. Building coverage shall not exceed 40%.
      (5)   Building height. No building within the R-4 District hereinafter
constructed shall exceed 30 feet in height to the highest roof peak, or two and
one-half stories, whichever is less.
      (6)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 25 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than ten feet for each side yard
from the property line. Corner side yards shall be not less than 25 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 25 feet from the property
line.
      (7)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed six tenths (0.6).
      (8)   Minimum dwelling unit size. Minimum dwelling unit sizes:
         (a)   Two bedrooms: 1,200 square feet;
         (b)   Three bedrooms: 1,375 square feet;
         (c)   Four bedrooms: 1,600 square feet; and
         (d)   Five or more bedrooms: 1,800 square feet.
      (9)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
      (10)   Minimum landscape coverage. The minimum landscape coverage shall
be 50%.
(Prior Code, § 159.065) (Ord. 05-0285, passed 6-15-2005; Ord. 06-0369, passed
2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 08-0698, passed 8-20-2008; Ord.
09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 18-1482,
passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.080 R-5 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (6,500 SQUARE FEET).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The R-5 District is intended to reflect
contemporary design standards in housing development. While the district allows
for smaller lot sizes, it is anticipated that developments within this district
will provide for greater amenities, such as increased open space, recreational
facilities, pedestrian access and other improvements.
   (B)   Permitted uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) The following uses are permitted within the R-5 District:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (2)   Home occupations, as regulated in §
157.041;
      (3)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly-owned
and operated;
      (4)   Off-street parking, as regulated in §§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (5)   Signs, as regulated in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (6)   Accessory uses, as regulated in §
157.027;
      (7)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period of time
not to exceed construction or not more than 24 months, whichever is less,
unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (8)   Public utility facilities, as defined in the State Act entitled,
“An Act Concerning Public Utilities,” see 220 ILCS 5/3-105; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity.
   (C)   Special uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, after
public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
157.226, special uses, the corporate authorities of the village may, by
“special use permit,” allow the following in the R-5 District:
      (1)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
      (2)   Private recreation areas or camps;
      (3)   Schools (elementary and secondary), including playgrounds and
athletic fields auxiliary thereto;
      (4)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship;
      (5)   Public service uses, including:
         (a)   Filtration plants, pumping stations and water reservoirs;
         (b)   Police, fire stations and any public building erected by any
governmental agency;
         (c)   Telephone exchange facilities; and
         (d)   Electric substations and booster stations.
      (6)   Day or nursery schools, public or private;
      (7)   Planned residential or institutional developments, under single
ownership or control, in which incidental business or recreational facilities
for the convenience of the occupants may be furnished. For such developments,
the Village Board may vary the bulk regulations of this subchapter; provided
the variations are consistent with the general purpose and intent of this
subchapter, and as set forth in §§
157.200 through
157.209, and will result in better site planning and thus be of greater benefit
both to the occupants of the development and the surrounding areas;
      (8)   Personal communication facility (see §
157.028); and
      (9)   Group care home, as defined herein.
   (D)   Temporary uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a
permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use:
processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature
connected with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a
specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this classification after a
permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective
for a period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for
more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).)
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use and do not involve
the conduct of any business, trade or industry.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the exclusive use
of residents or occupants of the premises (see §
157.027);
         (b)   Swimming pools, exclusively for the use of the residents and
their guests, that are setback from every property line at least ten feet and
not located in the front yard;
         (c)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 12 square feet for each face
that are setback from every property line at least ten feet; and
         (d)   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use and personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Lot area. The minimum area for each lot shall be not less than
6,500 square feet (0.15 acres).
      (2)   Lot width/frontage. The minimum lot width for each lot shall be not
less than 65 feet. Corner lots shall be not less than 85 feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 100 feet.
      (4)   Building coverage. Building coverage shall not exceed 40%.
      (5)   Building height. No building within the R-5 District hereinafter
constructed shall exceed 30 feet in height to the highest roof peak, or two and
one-half stories, whichever is less.
      (6)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 25 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than a total combination of 15
feet; however, in no case, shall any side yard be less than five feet from the
property line. Corner lot side yards shall not be less than 25 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 20 feet from the property
line.
      (7)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed 0.65.
      (8)   Minimum dwelling unit size.
         (a)   Two bedrooms: 1,100 square feet;
         (b)   Three bedrooms: 1,200 square feet; and
         (c)   Four bedrooms: 1,300 square feet.
      (9)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
      (10)   Minimum landscape coverage. The minimum landscape coverage shall
be 50%.
(Prior Code, § 159.066) (Ord. 05-0285, passed 6-15-2005; Ord. 06-0369, passed
2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 08-0698, passed 8-20-2008; Ord.
09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 18-1482,
passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.081 R-6 ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL (5-8 D.U./ACRE).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The R-6 District is intended to serve as a buffer
between the more standard single-family developments, higher density
residential and business/commercial districts. While allowing for attached and
townhouse designs, developments within this district should also retain,
whenever possible, a single-family characteristic (such as by breaking up the
mass of buildings and avoiding the look of expansive garages). The maximum
allowable density within the R-6 District shall not exceed eight dwelling units
per acre, and all development within an R-6 District shall be processed
according to the requirements of §§
157.200 through
157.209, planned unit developments.
   (B)   Permitted uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) The following uses are permitted within the R-6 District:
      (1)   Attached residential/townhouses with special use permit approval
according to the planned unit development requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (3)   Home occupations, as regulated in §
157.041;
      (4)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly-owned
and operated;
      (5)   Off-street parking, as regulated in §§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (6)   Signs, as regulated in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (7)   Accessory uses, as regulated in §
157.027;
      (8)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period of time
not to exceed construction, or not more than 24 months, whichever is less,
unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (9)   Public utility facilities, as defined in the State Act entitled,
“An Act Concerning Public Utilities,” see 220 ILCS 5/3-105; and
      (10)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity.
   (C)   Special uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, after
public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the R-6 District:
      (1)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
      (2)   Private recreation areas or camps;
      (3)   Schools (elementary and secondary), including playgrounds and
athletic fields auxiliary thereto;
      (4)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship;
      (5)   Public service uses, including:
         (a)   Filtration plants, pumping stations and water reservoirs;
         (b)   Police, fire stations and any public building erected by any
governmental agency;
         (c)   Telephone exchange facilities; and
         (d)   Electric substations and booster stations.
      (6)   Day or nursery schools, public or private;
      (7)   Planned residential or institutional developments, under single
ownership or control, in which incidental business or recreational facilities
for the convenience of the occupants may be furnished. For such developments,
the Village Board may vary the bulk regulations of this subchapter; provided
the variations are consistent with the general purpose and intent of this
subchapter, and as set forth in §§
157.200 through
157.209, and will result in better site planning and thus be of greater benefit
both to the occupants of the development and the surrounding areas;
      (8)   Rest homes/nursing homes;
      (9)   Philanthropic and eleemosynary (charitable) institutions;
      (10)   Family care homes for the developmentally disabled, within 2,000
feet of an existing family or group care home for the developmentally disabled;
      (11)   (a)   Group care homes for the developmentally disabled, six to 15
residents. Such a home shall submit, as part of its application, a statement of
the exact nature of the planned home, the qualifications of the agency or
organization which will operate the home, a statement of the type and number of
personnel which will be employed in the proposed home and evidence that the
home will comply with all federal, state, county or local licenses or
certificates which may be required by law for the type of program to be
operated.
         (b)   The proposed home shall also conform with the following
additional standards:
            1.   Off-street parking requirements, as regulated by §§
157.120 through
157.126;
            2.   The group care home will conform to the type and outward
appearance of the residences in the area in which it is located. This provision
shall in no way restrict the installation of any ramp or other special feature
required to serve the disabled residents;
            3.   To prevent the concentration of family group care homes for
the developmentally disabled and impaction of a neighborhood by a high
concentration of such residences, care shall be exercised when considering an
application for a special use permit for such residences, which, if granted,
would not increase the number of developmentally disabled persons within a
2,000 foot radius of the proposed home. This provision is intended to ensure
that the capacity of a neighborhood’s existing social structure to accommodate
such homes is not exceeded and that a concentration of such homes does not
develop that might inadvertently create an institutional setting which would
impede the proper functioning of such homes;
            4.   Group care homes shall be located in single-family detached
dwellings only or in buildings designed solely and wholly for such use; and
            5.   Exception shall be only as described in this section, group
care homes for the developmentally disabled, with six to ten residents, shall
be subject to no greater restrictions or requirements than those imposed upon
all other residential uses in the zoning district in which the group care home
is to be located.
      (12)   Personal communication facility. (See §
157.028.)
   (D)   Temporary uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a
permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use:
processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature
connected with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a
specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this classification after a
permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective
for a period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for
more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).)
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use and do not involve
the conduct of any business, trade or industry.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the exclusive use
of residents or occupants of the premises;
         (b)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 12 square feet for each face
that are setback from every property line at least ten feet; and
         (c)   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use and personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Lot area and dwelling unit sizes. The following minimum lot areas
and dwelling unit sizes shall apply within the district.
         (a)   For single-family detached dwelling, lots shall be not less than
8,000 square feet in area and dwelling units shall be not less than 2,000
square feet in area.
         (b)   For townhomes/attached residential dwelling units, there shall
be a minimum lot area of not less than the following:
 
Size of Unit Minimum Lot Square Footage Minimum Unit Square Footage
2 Bedrooms   4,500                      1,600
3 Bedrooms   5,500                      1,700
4 Bedrooms   6,000                      1,800
 
      (2)   Lot width/frontage. The minimum lot width for each lot within the
district shall be as follows.
         (a)   Single-family residential shall be not less than the
requirements within the R-4 Single-Family Residential District.
         (b)   Townhomes/attached residential shall be not less than 55 feet.
Corner lots shall be not less than 75 feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 90 feet.
      (4)   Building coverage. Building coverage shall not exceed 40%.
      (5)   Building height. No building within the R-6 District hereinafter
constructed shall exceed 30 feet in height to the highest roof peak, or two and
one-half stories, whichever is less.
      (6)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 25 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards:
            1.   Detached single-family dwellings: shall not be less than a
total combination of 15 feet; however, in no instance, shall any side yard be
less than five feet from the property line. Corner side yards shall not be less
than 20 feet; and
            2.   Townhomes and attached residential dwellings: shall not be
less than ten feet from the property line, except that interior side yards
shall not be required. Corner side yards shall not be less than 20 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 25 feet from the property
line.
         (d)   Minimum building separations:
            1.   Front to front, rear to rear or front to rear shall be not
less than 50 feet;
            2.   End to end (side to side) shall be not less than 20 feet;
            3.   Front to end, rear to end shall be not less than 35 feet; and
            4.   Corner to corner (point to point) shall be not less than 35
feet.
         (e)   Minimum contiguous area shall be not less than ten acres.
      (7)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed 0.65.
      (8)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
      (9)   Minimum landscape coverage. The minimum landscape coverage shall be
50%.
      (10)   Number of units per building. A maximum of four units shall be
allowed per building.
   (G)   Building design guidelines.
      (1)   Facades.
         (a)   The primary facade of each home shall face the public street.
         (b)   Facades must be articulated. Articulation may take the form of
staggering the wall of the building as well as through porches, bay or bow
windows and balconies.
         (c)   All building facades must be constructed primarily of brick or
stone. High quality accent materials, such as cedar siding and vinyl siding
(0.46 minimum thickness), may be incorporated into the design provided that
they do not cumulatively cover more than 25% of the primary facade and that
they do not cumulatively cover more than 50% of any other facade.
      (2)   Architectural detail.
         (a)   1.   The primary facade must include at least two of the
following architectural elements.
            2.   Any other street-facing facade must include at least one of
the following architectural elements:
               a.   Porches (minimum five-foot projection);
               b.   Second-story balconies (minimum five-foot projection) or
balconets;
               d.   Roof overhangs (minimum one-foot projection);
               e.   Bay or bow windows;
               f.   Cantilevered windows;
               g.   Chimney breasts;
               h.   Copper design elements including accent roofs (copper
flashing to brick exterior must be wraggle cut/saw cut into brick and
remortered) and copper gutter flashing;
               i.   Stone accent pieces; and
               j.   Pediments over windows and doors.
            3.   The elements must be incorporated into the design of the
buildings so that they are compatible with the building’s architectural style
and also harmonious with the architecture and scale of the neighborhood.
      (3)   Entrances.
         (a)   The primary entry and door to each structure shall face the
public street.
         (b)   Tunnel-like entrances shall be avoided. No entry shall be
recessed more than six feet from the face of the primary facade, exclusive of
porches.
      (4)   Fenestration.
         (a)   Windows shall be incorporated into all facades.
         (b)   Windows must cover 15% of the facade area. No section of blank
wall may exist that is greater than 15 linear feet without being interrupted by
a window. This standard applies to living areas as well as to accessory
structures such as garages and sheds.
      (5)   Parking/garages.
         (a)   Off-street guest parking areas must be incorporated into the
design of all developments with six or more dwelling units. One parking space
shall be provided for each three homes, to a maximum of ten parking spaces.
This requirement excludes any parking that may be provided on driveways.
         (b)   A minimum two-car garage shall be incorporated into each
dwelling unit.
         (c)   1.   The garage shall be designed so as not to dominate the
primary facade of the building.
            2.   Garages may be located as follows:
               a.   Setback six feet from the primary facade of the building;
               b.   Side loaded with windows along the primary facade and
elements to give a uniform appearance with the rest of the dwelling; and
               c.   Projecting no more than four feet in front of the primary
facade but must include living space (with windows) above.
         (d)   All garage doors must include raised panels and windows in order
to reduce their monotonous appearance.
         (e)   Garage doors must be recessed a minimum of eight inches from the
face of the garage so as to cast a shadow on the door thereby reducing its
appearance.
      (6)   Roofing.
         (a)   Roofs must be covered in architectural shingles (300 pounds),
slate roof, clay tile or laminated clay tile replica.
         (b)   The color of roof-top vents must match the roofing material.
      (7)   Landscaping.
         (a)   Foundation landscaping consisting of shade and ornamental trees,
evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, flowers and/or other live planting materials
shall be incorporated around all buildings. Particular attention shall be paid
toward screening mechanical equipment softening large expanses of building
walls; and accenting entrances and architectural features of the unit(s).
         (b)   Clusters of landscaping shall be planted strategically in rear
and side yards of townhouses to provide privacy to residents. Whenever
possible, landscaping should be used to minimize views directly into neighbors
windows.
         (c)   An irrigation system shall be installed in all landscape areas.
      (8)   Anti-monotony.
         (a)   No two single-family dwellings of identical front elevation, or
facade, shall be constructed or located on adjacent lots, nor shall there be
constructed or located more than 15% of single-family dwellings of the same
elevation or facade in any block. A change in front elevation or facade shall
be deemed to exist when there is a substantial difference in roof line, type
and location of windows and/or kind and arrangement of materials.
         (b)   There shall not be constructed or located more than 15% of
townhomes/single-family attached dwellings of the same elevation or facade in
any block. A change in the front elevation or facade shall be deemed to exist
when there is a substantial difference in roof line, type and location of
windows and or kind and arrangement of material.
   (H)   Possible variance process.
      (1)   Residential buildings or structures which demonstrate exceptional
architectural merit and an intention to provide diversification to the housing
stock of the village may, upon application made to the Village Board of
Trustees, be granted a variance from the provisions of this chapter requiring
the use of particular materials for exterior finishes to allow the use of
different materials or to allow the use of a different percentage or proportion
of the materials otherwise required in the exterior finish of such a structure,
but no such variance shall be available or granted to allow the use of aluminum
siding, or imitation brick or stone sheeting.
      (2)   Furthermore, and without otherwise limiting any term or provision
of this chapter, or of any amendment thereto, any person proposing to construct
any accessory structure that demonstrates either architectural merit, planning
excellence or a commitment to diversifying the housing stock of the village
may, upon application made to the Village Board, be granted a variance from the
provisions of this chapter regarding the use of particular materials for
exterior finishes to allow the use of different materials or to allow the use
of a different percentage or proportion of materials otherwise required for the
exterior finish of such structure, provided that the Village Board determines,
based upon evidence presented by the applicant, that the proposed variance will
not alter the essential character of the neighborhood in which the property is
located, that the proposed variance will not be injurious to other property in
the neighborhood in which the property is located and that the proposed
variance will not substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood in which the property is located.
(Prior Code, § 159.067) (Ord. 05-0266, passed 4-6-2005; Ord. 05-0285, passed 6-
15-2005; Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord.
08-0698, passed 8-20-2008; Ord. 09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 11-0924,
passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 18-1482, passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.082 R-7 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL (9-12 D.U./ACRE).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The R-7 District is intended to provide areas for
higher density residential development, and to serve as a buffer between more
standard single-family development and commercial or other land uses that are
incompatible with single-family developments. The minimum acreage for a R-
7 District shall not be less than 15 acres, and the maximum allowable density
shall not exceed 12 dwelling units per net buildable acre. All developments
within an R-7 District shall be processed in accordance with the requirements
of §§
157.200 through
157.209.
   (B)   Permitted uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) The following uses are permitted within the R-7 District:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (2)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly-owned
and operated;
      (3)   Signs, as regulated in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (4)   Off-street parking, as regulated in §§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (5)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period of time
not to exceed construction or not more than 24 months, whichever is less,
unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (6)   Public utility facilities, as defined in the State Act entitled,
“An Act Concerning Public Utilities,” see 220 ILCS 5/3-105;
      (7)   Attached housing and townhouses with special use permit approval
according to the planned unit development requirements of this chapter;
      (8)   Multiple family dwelling units with special use permit approval
according to the planned unit development requirements of this chapter; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity.
   (C)   Special uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, after
public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the R-7 District:
      (1)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
      (2)   Private recreation areas or camps;
      (3)   Schools (elementary and secondary), including playgrounds and
athletic fields ancillary thereto;
      (4)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship;
      (5)   Public service uses, including:
         (a)   Filtration plants, pumping stations and water reservoirs;
         (b)   Police, fire stations and any public building erected by any
governmental agency;
         (c)   Telephone exchange facilities; and
         (d)   Electric substations and booster stations.
      (6)   Day or nursery schools, public or private;
      (7)   Planned residential or institutional developments, under single
ownership or control, in which incidental business or recreational facilities
for the convenience of the occupants may be furnished. For such developments,
the Village Board may vary the bulk regulations of this subchapter; provided
the variations are consistent with the general purpose and intent of this
subchapter, and as set forth in §§
157.200 through
157.209, and will result in better site planning and thus be of greater benefit
both to the occupants of the development and the surrounding areas;
      (8)   Rest homes/nursing homes;
      (9)   Philanthropic and eleemosynary institutions;
      (10)   Home occupations, as regulated in §
157.041;
      (11)   Family care homes for the developmentally disabled, not within
2,000 feet of an existing family or group care home for the developmentally
disabled;
      (12)   (a)   Group care homes for the developmentally disabled, six to 15
residents. Such a home shall submit, as part of its application, a statement of
the exact nature of the planned home, the qualifications of the agency or
organization which will operate the home, a statement of the type and number of
personnel which will be employed in the proposed home and evidence that the
home will comply with all federal, state, county or local licenses or
certificates which may be required by law for the type of program to be
operated.
         (b)   The proposed home shall also conform with the following
additional standards:
            1.   Off street parking requirements, as regulated by §§
157.120 through
157.126;
            2.   The group care home will conform to the type and outward
appearance of the residences in the area in which it is located. This provision
shall in no way restrict the installation of any ramp or other special feature
required to serve the disabled residents;
            3.   To prevent the concentration of family group care homes for
the developmentally disabled and impaction of a neighborhood by a high
concentration of such residences, care shall be exercised when considering an
application for a special use permit for such residences, which, if granted,
would not increase the number of developmentally disabled persons within a
2,000 foot radius of the proposed home. This provision is intended to ensure
that the capacity of a neighborhood’s existing social structure to accommodate
such homes is not exceeded and that a concentration of such homes does not
develop that might inadvertently create an institutional setting which would
impede the proper functioning of such homes;
            4.   Group care homes shall be located in single-family detached
dwellings only or in buildings designed solely and wholly for such use; and
            5.   Exception shall be only as described in this section, group
care homes for the developmentally disabled, with six to ten residents, shall
be subject to no greater restrictions or requirements than those imposed upon
all other residential uses in the zoning district in which the group care home
is to be located.
      (13)   An authorized mobile home park under the guidelines of a planned
unit development with a special use permit shall provide areas for the
development of modern mobile home parks, complete with amenities normally found
in standard single-family areas. Mobile home parks should be located in such a
way as to minimize their impact on more standard residential development, but
not so far removed from the community services and facilities. All developments
of this type shall be processed according to §§
157.200 through
157.209:
         (a)   Site and structure requirements.
            1.   Lot area. The minimum area for each unsubdivided mobile home
site shall be not less than 6,000 square feet.
            2.   Lot width. The minimum width for each unsubdivided mobile home
site shall be 50 feet, and on corner lots, 65 feet.
            3.   Setbacks. The minimum distances between structures shall be as
follows:
 
Front to front Not less than 25 feet
Front to rear  Same as front to front
Front to side  Same as front to front
Rear to rear   Not less than 20 feet
Rear to side   Same as side to side
Side to side   Not less than 15 feet
 
         (b)   Patio. Each mobile home site shall provide an appropriate
outdoor living space to supplement the interior living space of a mobile home,
either by constructing a deck or patio with conformance to the setbacks above.
            1.   Size. The minimum size of each mobile home patio shall be 180
square feet.
            2.   Location. Every patio location shall be convenient to the
entrance of the mobile home, appropriately related to the open areas of the
site and other facilities, fitted to terrain and natural features and related
to anticipated mobile home models.
            3.   Elevation. Where practical, the patio shall be at an elevation
at least as high as the elevation of its mobile home stand. Where topographical
conditions permit, the mobile home patio and adjoining yard area on the entry
side of the mobile home may be as much as two feet higher than the mobile home
stand in order that the level of the patio and outdoor living area will be
close to the floor level of an in place mobile home. The grade difference
between the patio and the stand may be taken up by a retaining wall or cribbing
or by an earth slope. Where the patio is higher than the mobile home stand,
adequate surface drainage of the mobile home stand shall be provided across the
other side or ends of the stand.
         (c)   Tenant storage facilities. Storage facilities shall be provided
on or conveniently near each mobile home site for the active storage of outdoor
equipment, furniture or tools and for the inactive storage of such other
materials as are used only seasonally or infrequently by the typical tenant and
which cannot be conventionally stored in a typical mobile home. There shall be
a minimum of 90 cubic feet provided for general storage for each mobile home
site. Storage facilities shall be designed in a manner that will enhance the
appearance of the park and shall be constructed of suitable weather resistant
materials appropriate for the use and maintenance contemplated.
         (d)   Density. The total density of any mobile home park shall not
exceed seven units per acre.
         (e)   Mobile home stand. The part of an individual lot reserved for
the placement of the mobile home shall be called the mobile home stand, and
shall conform to the following standards.
            1.   Placement. The mobile home stand shall be so placed as to
provide for the practical placement to the site of both the mobile home and its
appurtenant structures, and the retention of the mobile home on the site in a
stable condition and its satisfactory relationship to its surroundings.
            2.   Size. The size of the mobile home stand shall be suitable for
the mobile home to be served by the individual park and suitable to fit the
dimensions of the mobile home to be placed on said site, including such
appurtenant structures or appendages thereto.
            3.   Location. The location of each mobile home stand shall be at
such elevation, distance and angle in relation to the adjoining street and the
mobile home lot driveway that placement and removal of the mobile home is
practical.
            4.   Construction. The mobile home stand shall be constructed so as
to conform with applicable standards and specifications of the village.
            5.   Gradient. There shall be a minimum of 2% longitudinal and
adequate crown for cross gradient and surface drainage.
         (f)   Skirting. Every mobile home hereafter placed in the village
shall have skirting around its full outside perimeter. Such skirting shall
extend from the base of the mobile home to ground level. All skirting placed on
a mobile home shall be compatible and consistent with both the design and
exterior color of the mobile home. The owner of a mobile home shall be
responsible for the placement and maintenance of such skirting on a mobile
home.
         (g)   Anchor tie-down. Every mobile home hereinafter placed in the
village shall have devices for anchoring such mobile home so as to prevent
uplift or overturning. All cables used for anchoring shall themselves be
anchored in concrete. No anchoring cable shall extend beyond the outside
perimeter of the mobile home. The owner of the mobile home shall be responsible
for ensuring that such mobile home is so anchored.
         (h)   Streets and walks. The construction of all streets shall conform
to the standards and specifications of the village as required in Chapter 156.
In order to minimize wind forces, every attempt shall be made to provide for
curvilinear street layout and design. The construction of all sidewalks, as
required, shall be made in conformity with the standards and specification of
the village, as provided in Chapter 156. Also, individual walkways to each
mobile home stand shall be provided, extending from the adjacent parking area
and in conformity with the standards and specifications as noted above.
         (i)   Public utilities. All utilities shall be located underground as
required in Chapter 156. Each mobile home shall be connected to public water
and sanitary facilities and natural gas lines. Gas storage tanks, including
tanks storing propane, shall not be permitted.
         (j)   Park attendant. Every mobile home park shall be at all times
under the charge of an attendant or manager, whose duties shall include the
maintenance of the park and its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly
and sanitary condition, and who shall be answerable for any violation of the
provisions of this section.
         (k)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as
required in §§
157.120 through
157.126.
         (l)   Building height. Building height shall be as follows:
            1.   Mobile homes, not more than one story; and
            2.   Nonresidential permitted and special uses, not more than 30
feet.
         (m)   Minimum dwelling unit size shall be as follows:
            1.   Two or fewer bedrooms, 600 square feet; and
            2.   Three or more bedrooms, 1,200 square feet.
         (n)   Floor area ratio (FAR). Maximum FAR shall be as follows:
            1.   Mobile homes, not applicable; and
            2.   For nonresidential uses, the FAR for each lot shall not exceed
six tenths (0.6).
         (o)   Additions to mobile homes. No permanent structure shall be
affixed to any mobile home, except for a canopy, awning, garage, carport, deck
or patio designed for use with the particular mobile home. The site coverage of
a mobile home, together with any expansion or accessory structure permitted
thereto by the section, shall not exceed 30% of the total mobile home site
area.
         (p)   Dwelling unit restrictions. Dwelling units other than approved
mobile homes shall not be permitted within a mobile home park, and mobile homes
may be located only within an approved mobile home park, and on approved mobile
home sites.
         (q)   Fire extinguishers. Every mobile home shall be equipped with one
two and on half-pound fire extinguisher’s, Type ABC, which shall be located in
the kitchen area of the mobile home. The owner of the mobile home shall be
responsible for ensuring that such fire extinguishers are so placed and
operation at all times.
         (r)   Dependent mobile homes and trailers. In no event shall a
dependent mobile home, non-permanent shelter or other vehicle designed for
sleeping purposes, other than an independent mobile home, be permitted for
occupancy at any time in a mobile home park, trailers, campers and other
accessory vehicles, including boats, shall not be located within a mobile home
park unless placed within an approved storage area designed for the collective
placement of all such trailers, campers, boats and other accessory buildings.
         (s)   Recordkeeping. Each mobile home park shall be provided with a
custodian’s office where each mobile home entering such park shall be assigned
to a site, given a copy of the park rules and regulations, and registered
according to the prescribed form. Such registration shall include the name and
address of the owner and every occupant of such mobile home and the square feet
of floor space contained in such mobile home. Such registration shall also
include the license number of such mobile home and of the towing vehicle as
well as the state issuing such licenses. The registration shall be signed by
the owner or operator of the mobile home. No person shall furnish
misinformation for purposes of registration. The registration records shall be
neatly and securely maintained, and no registration shall be destroyed until
six years have elapsed following the date of registration. The register shall
be available at all times for inspection by the Village Manager or their
designee.
         (t)   Certificate of title. No mobile home shall be admitted to a
mobile home park if it does not display a certificate of title issued by the
Secretary of State. No mobile home park operator shall admit a mobile home that
does not display proper certificate of title.
         (u)   Landlord and Tenant Act. Prior to the placement of a mobile home
in a mobile home park, and upon the renewal of the mobile home site lease, the
owner of the mobile home park shall provide for each mobile home in the mobile
home park a current copy of the State Mobile Home Landlord and Tenant Act, 765
ILCS 745/1 et seq.
         (v)   Removal of tongue, hitch and wheels. Upon the placement of a
mobile home within a mobile home park, the owner of such mobile home shall
remove from the mobile home the tongue, hitch, and wheels.
         (w)   Lease restrictions. All leases for each mobile home site shall
be for not less than one year in duration.
         (x)   Permits required. In addition to the approval of a planned unit
development with special use permits, the owner of a mobile home park shall
obtain or cause to be obtained the following:
            1.   A building permit for all structures, permanent facilities,
mobile home stands and accessory structures;
            2.   Individual occupancy permits for all mobile homes upon initial
placement of the mobile home on the mobile home site, any subsequent relocation
of the mobile home within the mobile home park or any subsequent re-occupancy
of the mobile home;
            3.   A disconnect permit for any mobile home relocated within a
mobile home park or removed from a mobile home park; and
            4.   In addition to the application fee, the licensee shall pay to
the village on or before January 1 of each year an annual license fee as
follows:
 
1 to 10 lots     $400, plus $40 per lot
11 to 50 lots    $650, plus $40 per lot
51 to 100 lots   $800, plus $40 per lot
101 to 500 lots  $1,000, plus $50 per lot
501 or more lots $1,500, plus $60 per lot
 
            5.   Any license grantee hereunder shall be subject to revocation
or suspension by the village; provided, however, that the village shall first
serve or cause to be served on the licensee a written notice in which shall be
specified the way or ways in which the licensee has failed to comply with the
regulations herein. The village shall require the licensee to remove or abate
the nuisance or unsanitary or objectionable condition specified in the notice
within ten days.
         (y)   Street lights. Street lights, parkway trees and other non-
roadway improvements shall be provided as required in
Chapter 156.
      (14)   Personal communication facility. (See §
157.028.)
   (D)   Temporary uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a
permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use:
processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature
connected with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a
specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this classification after a
permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective
for a period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for
more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).)
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use and do not involve
the conduct of any business, trade or industry.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the exclusive use
of residents or occupants of the premises; and
         (b)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 12 square feet for each face
that are setback from every property line at least ten feet.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Lot area. The minimum lot areas shall apply within the district:
         (a)   For single-family detached dwelling units, there shall be not
less than 8,000 square feet; and
         (b)   For townhomes/attached residential dwelling units, there shall
be a minimum lot area of not less than the following:
 
Size of Unit Minimum Lot Square Footage Minimum Unit Square Footage
1 Bedroom    3,500                      700
2 Bedroom    4,500                      900
3 Bedrooms   5,000                      1,100
 
      (2)   Lot width/frontage. The minimum lot width for each lot shall be not
less than 50 feet. Corner lots shall be not less than 70 feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 80 feet.
      (4)   Building coverage. Building coverage shall not exceed 40%.
      (5)   Building height. No building within the R-7 District hereinafter
constructed shall exceed 40 feet in height to the highest roof peak, or three
and one-half stories, whichever is less.
      (6)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 25 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   1.   Townhomes/attached residential side yards shall be not less
than 20 feet from the property line and interior sides shall not be required.
            2.   Multiple-family side yards shall not be less than 20 feet from
the property line.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 25 feet from the property
line.
         (d)   Minimum building separations, townhomes/attached residential:
            1.   Front to front, rear to rear or front to rear shall be not
less than 50 feet;
            2.   End to end (side to side) shall be not less than 20 feet;
            3.   Front to end, rear to end shall be not less than 35 feet; and
            4.   Corner to corner (point to point) shall be not less than 35
feet.
         (e)   Minimum building separations, multiple-family residential:
            1.   Front to front, rear to rear or front to rear shall be not
less than 50 feet;
            2.   End to end (side to side) shall be not less than 30 feet;
            3.   Front to end, rear to end shall be not less than 35 feet; and
            4.   Corner to corner (point to point) shall be not less than 35
feet.
         (f)   Minimum contiguous area shall be not less than 15 acres.
      (7)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed sixty-five tenths (0.65).
      (8)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
      (9)   Minimum landscape coverage. The minimum landscape coverage shall be
50%.
(Prior Code, § 159.068) (Ord. 05-0285, passed 6-15-2005; Ord. 06-0369, passed
2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord.
11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 18-1482, passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.083 R-5A SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (6,000 SQUARE FEET).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The R-5A District is intended to reflect the
historic development patterns of the older areas within the community. The
District allows for the smaller lot sizes and setbacks prevalent when the homes
were built. The purpose of the R-5A District is to encourage investment in
older subdivisions. Corner lots sharing rear lot lines, as defined above, shall
be treated as interior lots for the purpose of locating accessory structures;
provided, however, that the corner side yard is enclosed by a fence not less
than four feet in height.
   (B)   Permitted uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) The following uses are permitted within the R-5A District:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (2)   Home occupations, as regulated in §
157.041;
      (3)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly-owned
and operated;
      (4)   Off-street parking, as regulated in §§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (5)   Signs, as regulated in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (6)   Accessory uses, as regulated in §
157.027;
      (7)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period of time
not to exceed construction or not more than 24 months, whichever is less,
unless otherwise approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (8)   Public utility facilities, as defined in the State Act entitled,
“An Act Concerning Public Utilities,” see 220 ILCS 5/3-105; and
      (9)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity.
   (C)   Special uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, after
public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the R-5 District:
      (1)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
      (2)   Private recreation areas or camps;
      (3)   Schools (elementary and secondary), including playgrounds and
athletic fields auxiliary thereto;
      (4)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship;
      (5)   Public service uses, including:
         (a)   Filtration plants, pumping stations and water reservoirs;
         (b)   Police, fire stations and any public building erected by any
governmental agency;
         (c)   Telephone exchange facilities; and
         (d)   Electric substations and booster stations.
      (6)   Day or nursery schools, public or private;
      (7)   Planned residential or institutional developments, under single
ownership or control, in which incidental business or recreational facilities
for the convenience of the occupants may be furnished. For such developments,
the Village Board may vary the bulk regulations of this subchapter; provided
the variations are consistent with the general purpose and intent of this
subchapter, and as set forth in §§
157.200 through
157.209, and will result in better site planning and thus be of greater benefit
both to the occupants of the development and the surrounding areas;
      (8)   Personal communication facility (see §
157.028); and
      (9)   Group care home, as defined herein.
   (D)   Temporary uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).) Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Administrator of a
permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a temporary use:
processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-temporary nature
connected with the construction of roads which are normally removed when a
specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this classification after a
permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This permit shall be effective
for a period not to exceed six continuous months and shall not be renewed for
more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See land use chart, §
157.074(G).)
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use and do not involve
the conduct of any business, trade or industry.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Garages, carports or other parking spaces for the exclusive use
of residents or occupants of the premises (see §
157.027);
         (b)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 12 square feet for each face
that are setback from every property line at least ten feet; and
         (c)   Gardening (the raising of vegetables and fruits) and keeping of
household pets exclusively for the use and personal enjoyment of residents of
the premises and not for commercial purposes.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Lot area. The minimum area for each lot shall be not less than
6,000 square feet (0.13 acres).
      (2)   Lot width/frontage. The minimum lot width for each lot shall be not
less than 60 feet. Corner lots shall be not less than 80 feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 100 feet.
      (4)   Building coverage. Building coverage shall not exceed 40%.
      (5)   Building height. No building within the R-5A District hereinafter
constructed shall exceed 30 feet in height to the highest roof peak, or two and
one-half stories, whichever is less.
      (6)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 22 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than five feet from the property
line. Corner lot side yards shall not be less than 20 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 20 feet from the property
line.
      (7)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed sixty-five tenths (0.65).
      (8)   Minimum dwelling unit size. Minimum dwelling unit sizes:
         (a)   Two bedrooms, 1,100 square feet;
         (b)   Three bedrooms, 1,200 square feet; and
         (c)   Four bedrooms, 1,300 square feet.
      (9)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 50%.
      (10)   Minimum landscape coverage. The minimum landscape coverage shall
be 50%.
   (G)   Eligible territories. The only territories that can be zoned to the R-
5A District are those territories where more than 75% of the dwelling units
were built prior to 1975.
(Prior Code, § 159.069) (Ord. 05-0285, passed 6-15-2005; Ord. 05-0313, passed
2-1-2006; Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord.
08-0698, passed 8-20-2008; Ord. 09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 11-0924,
passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 18-1482, passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
**** BUSINESS/COMMERCIAL DISTRICT ****
§ 157.095 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The business districts set forth in this chapter are established to
protect the public health; to promote public safety, comfort, convenience and
the general welfare; and to protect the economic base of the village and the
value of property.
      (2)   These general purposes include, among others, the following
specific objectives:
         (a)   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a
well considered plan so that adequate space is provided in appropriate
locations for the various types of business and commercial type of uses,
thereby protecting and strengthening the economic base of the village;
         (b)   To place in separate districts those businesses which may create
noise, odors, hazards, unsightliness or which may generate excessive traffic so
as to adversely affect their neighbors;
         (c)   To permit selected business uses in districts where adjacency to
or inclusion in a residence area has sufficient elements of service or
convenience to those area to offset the disadvantages which may be created;
         (d)   To encourage the grouping in appropriate locations of compatible
business uses which will tend to draw trade that is mutually interchangeable
and so promote public convenience and business prosperity and contribute to the
alleviation of traffic and pedestrian congestion; and
         (e)   To provide for the establishment of off-street parking
facilities permitted and required so as to alleviate traffic congestion and so
promote shopping convenience and business prosperity.
   (B)   Districts. There are created the following districts:
      (1)   B-1 Local Shopping District;
      (2)   B-2 Community Shopping District;
      (3)   B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping District;
      (4)   B-4 Automotive Service District; and
      (5)   P-B Planned Business District.
   (C)   Residential dwelling units. Residential dwelling units are a “special
use” within the B-1 Local Shopping District; provided they are located above
the first floor and above a permitted business use. Residential dwelling units
shall not be permitted on the ground floor of a business, or in the rear of a
business establishment on the ground floor. The land area and density
requirements of the R-6 District of this chapter shall apply to residential
dwelling units constructed in the B-1 District.
   (D)   Enclosure of operations. All business, commerce, serving and
processing shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings, except:
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading;
      (2)   Drive-in types of operations, such as theaters and restaurant
facilities;
      (3)   Outdoor sales lots, subject to the requirements of §
157.097(E);
      (4)   Outdoor dining areas when accessory to a permitted use; and
      (5)   As may otherwise be provided for herein.
   (E)   Off-street parking/loading and unloading facilities.
      (1)   Parking of trucks when accessory to the conduct of a permitted or
special use shall be limited to vehicles having not over one and one-half ton
capacity, except for pick-up or delivery services during normal business hours.
      (2)   Trucks in excess of one and one-half ton capacity shall not be
parked in the open within 100 feet of a residence district boundary line.
      (3)   Provision of all off-street parking and loading facilities shall be
made in accordance with §§
157.026 and
157.120 through
157.126.
      (4)   Parking is permitted within required front and rear yard areas,
except it shall not be closer to any property line than as follows:
         (a)   B-1 District: ten feet;
         (b)   B-2 District: 20 feet;
         (c)   B-3 District: 25 feet;
         (d)   B-4 District: 15 feet; and
         (e)   P-B District: see §
157.100(E)(9)(b).
      (5)   Parking is permitted in interior side yards provided that said side
yard abuts commercially or industrially used or zoned property. A minimum
setback of five feet shall be provided unless parking is shared.
      (6)   In addition to any other means of enforcement provided by the
provisions of this code, all sworn police officers of the village shall further
be permitted to enforce the provisions of divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above by
the means provided for in §
73.11 for the enforcement of violations of
Chapter 73.
   (F)   Signage. Placement of signage in all business districts shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of §§
157.155 through
157.167.
   (G)   Outdoor storage.
      (1)   All outdoor storage facilities for the building and accessory uses
and products shall be enclosed by an architecturally pleasing fence, wall or
planting materials adequate to conceal the facilities from adjacent properties
and the public street right-of-way.
      (2)   Outdoor storage areas shall be designed to be harmonious with the
building and their design shall incorporate the same materials used in the
building facade.
      (3)   Outdoor storage shall be included and shown within the required
landscape plan according to the requirements of surfacing and curbing of §
157.123(D).
      (4)   Site and landscape plans shall be presented to the Fire Department,
with an explanation as to the type of material being stored, housed or stocked
within the outdoor storage area.
      (5)   Outdoor storage areas shall be landscaped in accordance with the
landscaping requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   Landscaping. Placement of all landscaping shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of this section and §
157.037, inclusive.
      (1)   All applications for building permit requested for new construction
in any business/commercial district must have a previously approved landscape
plan.
      (2)   The exterior storage of materials and inventory shall be
effectively screened from view from any district boundary line and right-of-
way. Landscaping may consist of live or decorative plantings or fencing.
      (3)   Where business/commercial uses abut or are across the street from a
residential district, adequate landscape screening shall be provided to screen
the business/commercial uses.
   (I)   Performance standards. Performance standards are as described in §§
157.029 through
157.034.
   (J)   Ingress/egress onto a public street.
      (1)   Access is limited to not more than two points of ingress and/or
egress per lot except as modified in a PUD.
      (2)   Minimum width to be 24 feet at property line. Maximum width to be
that of 40 feet at property line, unless additional width is required for safe
access. This can include, but not limited to, two through lanes, one left
turning lane and an appropriately landscaped island.
      (3)   Locations to be approved by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   Details of design and construction shall meet all village
requirements.
      (5)   Entrance curbs and storm drainage provisions shall be required on
all street frontages, and shall meet with the approval of the Village Engineer
and the standard specifications of the village.
   (K)   Land use development or change.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any new construction
or development within the B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4 and P-B Districts, site,
landscaping and development (engineering) plans shall have been approved.
      (2)   Any construction or development of a structure with more than 2,500
square feet or on a lot or parcel larger than one-acre in size shall occur only
as a planned unit development.
      (3)   All shopping centers shall be developed as a planned unit
development.
      (4)   Any construction or development not requiring the approval of a PUD
may be approved by the Community Development Department except where action by
the Village Board is required, such as approval of a special use permit, a
variance or a similar action.
      (5)   Any change in use may be approved by the Community Development
Department except where action by the Village Board is required, such as
approval of a special use permit.
   (L)   Special provisions. The following special provisions shall apply to
those specific uses outlined in this section.
      (1)   All outdoor parking, storage and sales space shall be improved with
a permanent, durable and dustless surface (asphalt or concrete), and shall be
graded and drained so as to dispose of all surface water without detriment to
surrounding uses. All unpaved surfaces shall be sodded and landscaped.
      (2)   All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials and products
shall be enclosed by a fence, wall built of the same materials as the building
or plant materials adequate to conceal the facilities from adjacent properties
and public rights-of-way.
      (3)   No wastes or materials shall be deposited upon a lot in such a form
that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes or forces.
      (4)   All uses and activities shall conform with the performance
standards as enumerated in §§
157.029 through
157.034.
      (5)   Lighting used to illuminate any outdoor sales area, off-street
parking or loading areas shall be so arranged and designed as to reflect the
light away from adjoining properties.
      (6)   All outdoor parking areas shall conform with the off-street parking
regulations as enumerated in §§
157.120 through
157.126.
      (7)   All outdoor dining areas shall be subject to the following
conditions and restrictions.
         (a)   Outdoor seating, tables and canopies shall not obstruct any
sidewalk or street, whether public or private.
         (b)   Outdoor dining areas shall be permitted only as accessory uses
to a permitted use on the property.
         (c)   Fences and other protective barriers intended to provide privacy
or to demarcate the limits of the outdoor dining area are permitted provide
they are setback at least five feet from any public sidewalk and are not
located in a vision triangle at the intersection of any two streets or at the
intersection of a street and driveway.
         (d)   Outdoor dining areas shall be located on the same zoning lot as
the use serves.
         (e)   Trash receptacles shall be provided in sufficient number to
control litter and waste.
         (f)   Outdoor dining areas may be located in required yards, except
that covered outdoor dining areas shall comply with all required building
setbacks. No outdoor dining areas shall be located in any required yard or
transition yard along any residential zoning district.
         (g)   Outdoor dining areas shall remain open to the elements. Table
umbrellas, awnings and other temporary sun shade devices shall be permitted.
         (h)   No permanent fixtures related to or associated with outdoor
dining areas shall be permitted on a public sidewalk within a public right-of-
way.
         (i)   No live entertainment shall be provided in connection with
outdoor dining areas. Speakers may be placed in outdoor dining areas but shall
be modulated so as not to interfere with conversations outside the outdoor
dining area.
         (j)   No outdoor dining area shall be used after the hour of 10:00
p.m.
   (M)   Commercial lighting standards.
      (1)   (a)   A photometric plan will be required as part of the final
development plan for all nonresidential projects and for residential
developments that utilize parking lots. It will also be required for
billboards/signage where a final development plan is not required. The plan
must show the location, size (wattage), mounting height, orientation, type,
design and plans for all outdoor lighting and signs including wall mounted
lighting. The plan must show the levels of illumination in foot-candles (fc) at
ground level (minimum ten feet by ten feet grid). A catalog sheet showing the
proposed lighting fixtures must be included.
         (b)   Lighting for photometric plans must be maintained and operable
at all times.
      (2)   To reduce glare, only “fully shielded” or “full cutoff” light
fixtures are allowed. FULLY SHIELDED means that no light is emitted above the
horizontal plane passing through the lowest point of the light-emitting
element, so that direct light emitted above the horizontal plane is eliminated.
In addition, on sites adjacent to residential property, no direct light source
(bulb/filament) shall be visible at the property line at ground level.
      (3)   (a)   The average maintained illuminance shall not exceed nor be
less than 80% of the levels set below. Uses not listed below shall not exceed
nor be less than 80% if the levels set by the Illuminating Engineering Society
of North America (IESNA). The uniformity ratio shall not exceed the level set
by the IESNA.
         (b)   These levels include:
Use Average Minimum Maximum Uniformity Ratio
    (fc)    (fc)    (fc)    (Avg/Min)
Use                                 Average Minimum Maximum Uniformity Ratio
                                    (fc)    (fc)    (fc)    (Avg/Min)
Apartment parking lots              1.6     0.3     --      6:1
Auto lots                           7       1.2     20      6:1
Bank drive-through and ATM areas    --      --      40      --
Building entrances                  --      5.0     --      --
Church parking                      2.4     0.4     --      6:1
Commercial shopping center          2.4     0.4     --      6:1
Fast food facility                  3.6     0.6     --      6:1
Industrial parking                  2.4     0.4     --      6:1
Neighborhood shops                  2.4     0.4     --      6:1
Office parking                      2.4     0.4     --      6:1
Regional shopping center            3.6     0.6     --      6:1
Service station:
   - Pump islands                30      --      45      --
   - Service areas               3       --      --      --
Truck parking and maneuvering areas 2.4     --      --      --
Notes to Table:
 
These requirements only apply to areas used by vehicles and pedestrians.
They do not apply to landscaped areas.
 
      (4)   Where nonresidential sites are adjacent to residential sites, the
light level at the property line produced by the nonresidential lighting shall
not exceed 0.0 foot-candles.
      (5)   Except as otherwise allowed in the development regulations,
luminaries shall not be mounted in excess of 30 feet above grade, or the height
of the primary structure, whichever is less; provided, however, luminaries
located within 200 feet of a single-family residential zoning district shall
not be mounted in excess of 20 feet above grade or the height of the primary
structure, whichever is less.
      (6)   Service-station canopy lighting shall be accomplished using flat-
lens full-cutoff down-lighting fixtures, shielded in such a manner that the
edge of the fixture shielded be level with or below the light source envelope.
      (7)   All other under-canopy lights must be fully recessed into the
canopy.
      (8)   All nonresidential lighting is required to be turned off no later
than 60 minutes after business hours, only leaving the minimum lighting
necessary for site security.
         (a)   The minimum site security lighting must meet the minimum
standards in division (M)(3) above.
         (b)   1.   Security lighting must be capable of being activated and
turned off by photo sensors or time.
            2.   Security lighting must be illuminated one-half hour prior to
sunset and turned off one-half after sunrise.
         (c)   Parking lots must meet the minimum illumination standards in
division (M)(3) above.
         (d)   For all commercial buildings developed prior to the adoption of
division (M)(1) above which were not required to submit a photometric plan to
the village, wall mounted entrance/exit lighting is required for all entrances
and exits on commercial buildings.
      (9)   Definitions and terms used in this section shall be defined by the
IESNA Handbook, latest edition.
      (10)   All freestanding poles shall:
         (a)   Be located within landscaped areas or planter islands, or on
sidewalks, maintaining an accessible sidewalk width;
         (b)   Be located on a concrete base where no more than eight inches of
the base is located above grade;
         (c)   Be located to avoid conflict with trees; and
         (d)   All poles shall be numbered.
      (11)   Standard fixtures.
         (a)   The standard light fixture for retail and commercial
developments in the village shall be a matte black architectural style light
fixture with an arched mounting arm and a bell-shaped reflector shade. Other
earth-toned colors may be used if approved in a PUD. Both single- and double-
mounted fixtures are acceptable. At a minimum, the standard fixture must be
used around the perimeter of lots, along access and entrance drives in retail
and commercial developments, in key locations and exclusively on outlots and on
lots smaller than three acres. Additional details, such as fluted poles,
decorative trim on poles or mounting arms and decorative bases, may be
incorporated into the design of the light fixtures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4683.png]
 
         (b)   The standard ornamental light fixture for use along the historic
Route 66 corridor and in the Downtown District shall be a matte black
traditionally styled colonial lantern with a four-sided tapered cage and solid
black metal roof. The lantern shall be mounted on a fluted pole with a down
swept arm mount. Finials should be incorporated on the top of the pole, top of
the lantern and on the mount, as shown in the illustration. Both single- and
double-mounted fixtures are acceptable. The standard ornamental fixture shall
be used along storefronts along the Route 53 corridor and along the sidewalks
in Downtown Romeoville. The standard fixture must be used around the perimeter
of lots, along access and entrance drives in retail and commercial
developments, in key locations and exclusively on outlots and on lots smaller
than three acres.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4685.png]
 
         (c)   In other locations, a standard box light with a decorative
banding detail may be used. The standards box light must match the
architectural lights in color. Additional details, such as decorative trim on
poles and decorative bases, may be incorporated into the design of the light
fixtures provided that they are coordinated with the architectural style light
fixtures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4687.png]
 
      (12)   The village shall have the right to conduct a post-installation
inspection to verify compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and if
appropriate, to require a remedial action at no expense to the village.
      (13)   Nonconforming lighting: all lighting fixtures shall be brought
into conformity when at such time as 50% or more of the poles are changed,
replaced or added on a property.
      (14)   The village retains the right to require that when a
nonresidential property abuts a residential property or the light from any such
nonresidential property directly affects any other property that high pressure
sodium lights shall be required.
      (15)   Linear lighting (including neon, fluorescent, rope-lighting, LED
lighting and low voltage strip-lighting) primarily intended as an architectural
highlight to attract attention or used as a means to identification or
advertisement shall be prohibited.
      (16)   Maintenance standards: all lighting fixtures present must be
operable and compliant with the adopted International Property Maintenance
Code.
(Prior Code, § 159.070) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007; Ord. 07-0509, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 07-0556, passed 7-18-2007; Ord.
08-0702, passed 9-3-2008; Ord. 16-1306, passed 9-7-2016; Ord. 19-1585, passed
8-7-2019; Ord. 20-1628, passed 4-1-2020) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.096 B-1 LOCAL SHOPPING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The B-1 District is composed of only those
establishments which supply convenience goods or personal services, satisfying
the daily needs of the residents of the abutting neighborhoods. While the
district is designed to encourage limited size shopping centers with adequate
off-street parking and loading facilities, the district is primarily intended
for walk-in trade.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall include the following:
      (1)   Art and school supplies;
      (2)   Bakeries, retail sales only, no baking permitted;
      (3)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (4)   Book and stationary shops;
      (5)   Camera and photographic equipment, not including film processing on
site;
      (6)   Candy shop and ice cream store;
      (7)   Clothing repair and alterations;
      (8)   Coin and philatelic (stamp collector) stores;
      (9)   Dry cleaners and laundry, receiving station only, not including
processing;
      (10)   Dry goods, retail sales;
      (11)   Florists, retail sales only;
      (12)   Furrier, sales only;
      (13)   Gift shops;
      (14)   Hardware, paint and wallpaper stores;
      (15)   Hobby shop;
      (16)   Household appliance stores, retail sales only;
      (17)   Jewelry, watch repair and sales, not including precious metal
purchase stores;
      (18)   Laundromat;
      (19)   Medical clinic;
      (20)   Millinery (women’s apparel for the head) store;
      (21)   Music stores dealing in the sales of phonographs, records, tape
recorders, tapes, sheet music, compact disc, laser discs;
      (22)   Musical instruments, sales and lessons;
      (23)   Newsstands;
      (24)   Offices, business or professional;
      (25)   Professional offices for insurance, real estate, investment and
other professional offices. Not including depository and non-depository credit
institutions, banks, currency exchanges, pay day loans, security and commodity
brokers, exchanges and services;
      (26)   Photo studios;
      (27)   Radio and television sales and service, including video recorders,
tapes, sales and rentals;
      (28)   Restaurants, sit down and carry-out only. No drive-in
establishments and no alcohol;
      (29)   Shoe sales and repair;
      (30)   Tanning salon;
      (31)   Travel agency;
      (32)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity; and
      (33)   Shopping center (PUD required).
   (C)   Special uses. Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, after public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the district:
      (1)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship;
      (2)   Gasoline service stations, retail sales only, with convenience
stores;
      (3)   Liquor store-packaged goods, retail sales only;
      (4)   Nursery and day care centers;
      (5)   Public utility and governmental service uses;
      (6)   Residential, above the first floor of business/commercial uses;
      (7)   Restaurant with a beer and wine license, for consumption on the
premises only;
      (8)   Outdoor dining areas, accessory to a permitted use serving liquor;
and
      (9)   Planned unit development.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning
Administrator of a permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a
temporary use: processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-
temporary nature connected with the construction of roads which are normally
removed when a specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this
classification after a permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This
permit shall be effective for a period not to exceed six continuous months and
shall not be renewed for more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use or with §
157.027.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Storage building/structure accessory and used exclusively by the
occupants/tenants/owners of the premises;
         (b)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 32 square feet for each face
and setback from every property line at least ten feet; and
         (c)   Outdoor dining areas, subject to the requirements of §
157.095(K).
   (F)   Site and structure requirements. The following standards shall apply
and be considered as minimum requirements for the district.
      (1)   District size. The minimum area for the B-2 District shall be not
less than (43,560) square feet (one acre), nor more than four acres in size.
      (2)   Individual lot area. Individual lots within a B-1 District shall
have a minimum area of 9,450 square feet.
      (3)   Individual Lot width/frontage. Individual lot width shall be a
minimum lot width of 70 feet, corner lots shall be a minimum of 120 feet.
      (4)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 135 feet.
      (5)   Lot coverage/impervious surface. Lot coverage shall not exceed 60%
of the lot. Lot coverage, plus impervious surface coverage, shall not exceed a
total of 85% of the total lot.
      (6)   Building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
altered to exceed a maximum height of 25 feet or two stories, whichever is
less.
      (7)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 50 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than ten feet for each side yard
from the property line.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 30 feet from the property
line.
         (d)   Transitional yards, where the district adjoins a residential
district, shall be provided in accordance with the following.
            1.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line
of property in an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along
the side or rear lot line. This yard shall be equal in dimension to the minimum
side yard which would be required under this chapter for residential use or the
adjacent property in the residence district.
            2.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with
the front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a resident district, a yard
equal in depth to the minimum front yard required by this chapter on the
adjacent lot in the residence district shall be provided along the front or
side lot line for a distance of at least 25 feet, from such a lot in the
residence district. There shall be an unobstructed, green setback of no less
than ten feet along the remainder of the front or side lot line.
            3.   If a rear lot line of a lot is contiguous to a side lot line
of a lot located in a residence district, a rear yard shall be provided along
that rear lot line equal in dimension to the minimum side yard required under
this chapter on the adjacent residential lot.
      (8)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed 0.6.
(Prior Code, § 159.071) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 08-0651, passed
5-21-2008; Ord. 09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011;
Ord. 12-0972, passed 4-4-2012; Ord. 14-1086, passed 2-5-2014; Ord. 18-1482,
passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.097 B-2 COMMUNITY SHOPPING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The B-2 District is intended to provide facilities
used as the main shopping area for residents of the village and other nearby
communities and subdivisions. The Community Shopping District is to permit most
types of business or commercial uses, offices and service establishments; is
normally centrally located with respect to the village; and is located at major
intersections or along a major street.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall include the following:
      (1)   Permitted uses as listed in the B-1 Local Shopping District;
      (2)   Amusement centers, indoor only;
      (3)   Antique shops;
      (4)   Art gallery, studio and sales;
      (5)   Army/Navy/Military surplus sales;
      (6)   Auto accessory stores, retail sales only, no repairs;
      (7)   Auto driving schools;
      (8)   Bakeries, with products produced on site;
      (9)   Bicycle sales and service;
      (10)   Blueprinting, photocopy services;
      (11)   Bookbinding services;
      (12)   Business machines, sales and service;
      (13)   Carpet and floor coverings, retail sales;
      (14)   China and glassware retail sales;
      (15)   Christmas tree sales lots, temporary from November 21 to December
31 and in accordance with §
157.095(K);
      (16)   Costume rentals, sales;
      (17)   Child day care facility or mini day care center (see §
157.003 for definition);
      (18)   Department stores;
      (19)   Dog groomers without over night stays;
      (20)   Drapery sales and service;
      (21)   Electrical appliances and supplies, sales and service;
      (22)   Exhibition centers, meeting halls, community center;
      (23)   Farm and garden supply retail sales, no outside storage;
      (24)   Food/grocery stores;
      (25)   Funeral home, mortuary; no cremation;
      (26)   Furniture and home furnishings sales and service;
      (27)   Furrier, inclusive of incidental storage and minor repairs only;
      (28)   Health clubs, tennis/racquet clubs;
      (29)   Household appliances sales and service;
      (30)   Interior decorating sales and service;
      (31)   Library;
      (32)   Liquor store-packaged goods, retail sales only;
      (33)   Locksmith;
      (34)   Mail order, not including motor freight;
      (35)   Newspaper offices;
      (36)   Office supplies and equipment retail sales;
      (37)   Parking garages or lots; does not include motor vehicle storage or
repair;
      (38)   Pet sales and supplies;
      (39)   Plumbing supplies sales and service;
      (40)   Restaurant, including drive-through facilities;
      (41)   Sewing machines sales and service;
      (42)   Sporting goods retail sales, not including firearm sales and
services;
      (43)   Sports medicine/therapy;
      (44)   Tack shop;
      (45)   Taxidermists;
      (46)   Theaters, indoor only;
      (47)   Tobacco sales;
      (48)   Toy store;
      (49)   United States Post Offices;
      (50)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity;
      (51)   Professional offices for insurance, real estate, investment,
security and commodity brokers, exchanges and services. Not including
depository and non-depository credit institutions, banks, currency exchanges
and pay day loans;
      (52)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section as permitted uses,
but closely similar thereto; provided that those uses are not explicitly
mentioned as permitted or special uses elsewhere in this chapter; and
      (53)   Seasonal garden shops.
   (C)   Special uses. Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, after public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the district:
      (1)   Special uses as listed in the B-1 Local Shopping District;
      (2)   Animal hospital, veterinarian office; no boarding;
      (3)   Banquet hall;
      (4)   Business and commercial schools, including dancing and music
schools;
      (5)   Business colleges, trade schools;
      (6)   Car wash;
      (7)   Cartage, express and special delivery services, not including motor
freight;
      (8)   Clubs, public or private, indoor only;
      (9)   Depository and non-depository credit institutions, banks, currency
exchanges, pay day loans and similar uses subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   Drive-through facilities are not permitted.
         (b)   Indoor and parking lot security cameras are required in
conformance with section.
         (c)   Development of new depository and non-depository credit
institutions, banks, currency exchanges, pay day loans and similar uses.
            1.   New construction on heretofore vacant lots must be a minimum
of two stories in height.
            2.   The second story must be functional and cover a minimum of 75%
of the floor area of the first floor.
            3.   New institutions in existing buildings are not required to add
a second story.
      (10)   Equipment rentals, with outdoor storage of limited equipment
repairs within the confines of the structure/building;
      (11)   Hospitals with ancillary uses;
      (12)   Hotels;
      (13)   Lounge;
      (14)   Outdoor dining areas, accessory to a permitted or special use
serving liquor;
      (15)   Photo developing and processing;
      (16)   Printing, publishing, lithography;
      (17)   Massage parlor;
      (18)   Spa or day spa;
      (19)   Tattoo parlor, subject to all health regulations of village,
county and state;
      (20)   Restaurant with a beer and wine license, for consumption on the
premises only; and
      (21)   Taverns.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning
Administrator of a permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a
temporary use: processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-
temporary nature connected with the construction of roads which are normally
removed when a specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this
classification after a permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This
permit shall be effective for a period not to exceed six continuous months and
shall not be renewed for more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel and that they do not include structures or
structural features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use or with
§
157.027.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Storage building/structure accessory and used exclusively by the
occupants/tenants/owners of the premises;
         (b)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 32 square feet for each face
and setback from every property line at least ten feet;
         (c)   Outdoor dining areas, subject to the requirements of §
157.095(K);
         (d)   Outdoor sales areas; provided that they meet the following
requirements.
            1.   Outdoor sales must be restricted to private property and must
be conducted only on the premises of the business operating the primary
facility.
            2.   Goods/merchandise may be stacked along the front of a building
provided that it does not exceed eight feet in length, three feet in depth and
three feet in height.
            3.   Goods/merchandise may be stacked along the rear or side of a
building provided that the area meets all building setbacks in the zoning
district and the requirements of this code.
            4.   Goods/merchandise must be enclosed by an aesthetically-
pleasing masonry structure or enclosure that complements the building and does
not block any doors or windows. The structure must be completely enclosed on
all sides and must incorporate a closing lid or door. The lid or door must be
coordinated and made of a high quality material such as wrought iron.
Additionally, the structure must meet the design criteria contained in §
157.208.
            5.   No goods or merchandise shall be placed in any manner that
violates the sight triangle requirements established in §
157.021.
            6.   Goods/merchandise may not obstruct any sidewalk, walkway or
pedestrian path. Sidewalks, walkways and pedestrian paths must have a minimum
width of five feet free and clear of storage, displays or sales.
            7.   A safe loading area must be provided.
            8.   Parking requirements must be met for the primary use and the
increased requirement resulting from the use of the outdoor sales area.
            9.   Goods/merchandise may not be displayed on gas pump islands or
between gas pumps.
            10.   Goods/merchandise must be located on an asphalt or concrete
surface.
            11.   Goods/merchandise must be kept in a neat and orderly fashion.
Unenclosed merchandise, open bags, spilled merchandise and the like will not be
permitted.
            12.   Sale operators must provide adequate lighting after dark.
Where electricity is used, it must be serviced by an appropriate number of GFCI
outlets protected by weatherproof boxes with metal in-use covers. Extension
cords may be no longer than 25 feet, must be rated for wet use and must be
installed to be non-tripping and not in any vehicular path.
            13.   Landscaping may not be eliminated to provide room for outdoor
sales unless it is possible to relocate the landscaping while maintaining the
overall character of the landscape plan for the site.
            14.   Outdoor sales areas may only be used for seasonal items that
must be kept outdoors (during the time of year when they are typically used),
such as mulch, firewood, salt bags, flowers, topsoil or other merchandise
deemed appropriate by the Zoning Administrator.
            15.   Other items, such as soft drinks, food, toys (including
seasonal toys) and automobile maintenance equipment ,may not be sold outdoors.
            16.   Single ice chests shall be exempt from the requirements of
this section.
            17.   Single 20-pound propane tanks located in designated storage
and exchange sites shall be exempt from the requirements of this section. They
must, however, be located on the side or rear of the building.
            18.   With the exception of the propane tanks listed above, no
flammable materials may be sold outdoors.
            19.   Storage of trucks and trailers and sales and/or display of
merchandise from trucks or trailers are prohibited.
            20.   Outside sales and storage of goods/merchandise not in
compliance with the above regulations must be approved by the Village Board.
            21.   The following shall be submitted as part of an application
for outdoor sales areas:
               a.   A site plan indicating property boundaries, parking
location, sales location and size, signage and other information deemed
appropriate;
               b.   Letter of permission from property owner;
               c.   Statement as to how the site shall be maintained during the
designated time period;
               d.   Applications for any additional permits required for the
proposed outdoor sales such as temporary signs (which must comply with
requirements of §
157.161);
               e.   A $200 deposit shall be required to ensure that cleanup of
the site is accomplished within seven days after the expiration of the sales
permit and to ensure that the conditions of the permit and requirements of this
section are followed. If the cleanup is not accomplished in that time, or if
the conditions of the permit are not met, the deposit shall be forfeited; and
               f.   The permit fee for an outdoor sales area. (This fee may be
waived by the Zoning Administrator where the entire profit from the operation
is given to charity or used for charitable purposes.)
         (e)   Temporary sales or seasonal sales areas are permitted; provided
that they meet the requirements listed in division (E)(2)(d) above, except as
modified by the following.
            1.   Temporary/seasonal outdoor sales may also be allowed in the
yard or parking area of the subject property.
            2.   The outdoor sales area may not occupy a space larger than the
smaller of 5,000 square feet or 10% of the overall square footage of the
building.
            3.   Seasonal outdoor sales of gardening products must be limited
to the display and sale of flowers, vegetables, bagged garden products,
landscape products and statuaries. Outdoor sales of fencing, lumber and other
similar products are prohibited.
            4.   Temporary/seasonal outdoor sales of gardening products must be
conducted by the operator of primary business on the premises with a current
village business license that permits the sale of gardening products.
            5.   Temporary or seasonal sales must be enclosed by a minimum of a
rail/fence system or a greenhouse.
            6.   Each permit for temporary/ seasonal sales areas shall be valid
for a period of not more than 120 days. Only one permit shall be allowed per
calendar year. Seasonal permits issued for periods less than 120 days will be
counted as one permit. Temporary tent sales for special events shall be exempt
from these requirements and shall be allowed in accordance with §
157.027(F)(1).
            7.   Outdoor sales of Christmas trees must be limited to 60 days,
beginning on November 1 and ending on December 31. A permit is required but
shall not count as the single temporary/seasonal permit allowed per lot.
         (f)   Video gaming terminal locations, accessory to the conduct of a
permitted use or approved special use authorizing the sale of alcoholic
beverages for on-premises consumption, subject to the following conditions.
            1.   The term “video gaming terminal” shall have the meaning set
forth in §
138.01.
            2.   All persons seeking to operate video gaming terminals at a
given location must possess all licenses required under the Video Gaming Act,
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., and State Gaming Board regulations for the operation of
video gaming terminals at the proposed location.
            3.   No more than six video gaming terminals may be operated at a
given location.
            4.   All owners or persons allowing the use of premises for video
gaming terminal operations must possess a current and valid liquor license
issued by the Village Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
            5.   All proposed video gaming terminal special use permit
locations shall be at least 100 feet from any school, church or house of
worship. Distances shall be measured consistently with the then-current
regulations or customary practices of the State Gaming Board.
            6.   The operation of video gaming terminal locations at any
location qualified or proposing to qualify as a “licensed truck stop
establishment” within the meaning of § 5 of the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230
ILCS 40/5, shall, in addition to complying with the applicable requirements of
the Illinois Video Gaming Act and the then-current regulations of the State
Gaming Board, be subject to the following further conditions.
               a.   The licensed truck stop establishment serving as the video
gaming terminal location shall be located on a principal lot containing not
less than five acres, and which principal lot shall be the site of the
convenience store required to be included as a part of such licensed tuck stop
establishment, and of all fuel dispensing pumps required or contemplated to be
provided as part of the licensed truck stop establishment; provided that the
licensed truck stop establishment complies with the preceding sentence and the
other conditions of this section, the licensed truck stop establishment may
provide all or some portion of the required number of dedicated truck parking
spaces herein required on an adjacent lot containing not less than three acres
that is under common ownership with the principal lot and which is contiguous
to the principal lot, or separated from the principal lot only by a privately-
owned roadway constructed and maintained for the benefit of the subdivision or
development that includes both the principal lot and the adjacent lot. For
purposes of this division (E)(2)(f)6.a. only, the foregoing requirement of
common ownership of the principal lot and the adjacent lot to be used for
dedicated truck parking spaces may be satisfied by a licensed truck stop
establishment by providing the village with documentary evidence reasonably
acceptable to the village that establishes that each of such lots is leased to
the same identical tenant under lease terms initially providing such tenant
with the right to occupy each of such lots for not less than 30 years, where
the terms of such leases further grant to the tenant the rights to use such
lots for the conduct of a licensed truck stop establishment as referenced in
this division (E)(2)(f)6.a.
               b.   The convenience store included as part of such a licensed
truck stop establishment shall consist of not less than 5,000 square feet in
area.
               c.   The licensed truck stop establishment serving as the video
gaming terminal location shall provide that number of dedicated truck parking
spaces equal to the sum of the number of pumps dispensing or able to dispense
diesel or biodiesel fuel at such establishment, plus the number of video gaming
terminals proposed to be operated within such licensed truck stop. As used
herein, a DEDICATED TRUCK PARKING SPACE shall mean and include an area
designated by the owner or operator of the licensed truck stop establishment
reserved for the exclusive use of its customers for the parking of trucks while
patronizing the licensed truck stop establishment, capable of being occupied
for such use without otherwise disrupting or affecting the operations of the
licensed truck stop establishment and which shall be not less than 65 feet in
length and 12 feet in width, and constructed and surfaced as otherwise required
by this code and this code.
         (g)   Event spaces, as defined in this chapter.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   District size. The minimum area for the B-2 District shall be not
less than four acres, nor more than eight acres in size.
      (2)   Individual lot area. Individual lots within a B-2 District shall
have a minimum area of 12,150 square feet.
      (3)   Individual lot width/frontage. Individual lot width shall be a
minimum lot width of 90 feet; corner lots shall be a minimum of 150 feet.
      (4)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 135 feet.
      (5)   Lot coverage/impervious surface. Lot coverage/impervious surface
shall not exceed 60% of the lot. Lot coverage, plus impervious surface
coverage, shall not exceed a total of 85% of the total lot.
      (6)   Building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
altered to exceed a maximum height of 25 feet or two stories, whichever is
less.
      (7)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 60 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than ten feet for each side yard
from the property line.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 30 feet from the property
line.
         (d)   Transitional yards, where the district adjoins a residential
district, shall be provided in accordance with the following.
            1.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line
of property in an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along
the side or rear lot line. This yard shall be equal in dimension to the minimum
side yard which would be required under this chapter for residential use or the
adjacent property in the residence district.
            2.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with
the front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a resident district, a yard
equal in depth to the minimum front yard required by this chapter on the
adjacent lot in the residence district shall be provided along the front or
side lot line for a distance of at least 25 feet, from such a lot in the
residence district. There shall be an unobstructed, green setback of no less
than ten feet along the remainder of the front or side lot line.
            3.   If a rear lot line of a lot is contiguous to a side lot line
of a lot located in a residence district, a rear yard shall be provided along
that rear lot line equal in dimension to the minimum side yard required under
this chapter on the adjacent residential lot.
      (8)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed eight tenths (0.8).
(Prior Code, § 159.072) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0509, passed 2-
21-2007; Ord. 07-0599, passed 12-19-2007; Ord. 08-0651, passed 5-21-2008; Ord.
08-0715, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 12-1021,
passed 12-19-2012; Ord. 14-1086, passed 2-5-2014; Ord. 15-1180, passed 3-18-
2015; Ord. 15-1229, passed 11-18-2015; Ord. 19-1564, passed 5-1-2019; Ord. 19-
1604, passed 12-18-2019; Ord. 22-1794, passed 9-21-2022; Ord. 25-1995, passed
8-20-2025) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.098 B-3 HIGHWAY/REGIONAL SHOPPING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of this district is intended to
provide areas for those establishments which depend to a large extent on
customers arriving by automobile, and whose market area extends beyond the
village limits. This district should be located along a major arterial or
highway, and should contain adequately-sized parcels of land with larger
setbacks, open-clear viewing and safely located entrances and exit points.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall include the following:
      (1)   Permitted uses as listed in the B-2 Community Shopping District;
      (2)   Ambulance services, private;
      (3)   Animal hospitals, veterinarian office with no boarding;
      (4)   Business and commercial schools;
      (5)   Casket, casket supplies and sales;
      (6)   Catering;
      (7)   Commercial greenhouses;
      (8)   Equipment or car rentals, with outdoor storage of, limited
equipment repairs within the confines of the structure/building;
      (9)   Heating, air conditioning sales and service with no outside
storage;
      (10)   Hospitals;
      (11)   Linen, towel and diaper services;
      (12)   Monument sales;
      (13)   Orthopedic and medical supplies sales and service;
      (14)   Printing, publishing and lithography;
      (15)   Parcel delivery station, not including motor freight terminal;
      (16)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity;
      (17)   Radio and television studios, no transmission towers;
      (18)   Massage parlor;
      (19)   Spa or day spa;
      (20)   Tattoo parlor, subject to all health regulations of village,
county and state;
      (21)   Restaurant, including drive-through facilities, alcohol sales and
outdoor seating; and
      (22)   Food truck or food truck operator, subject to the requirements of
Chapter 122, but only when the food truck in question is operated in connection
with the operation of an establishment licensed to serve alcoholic beverages
for on premises consumption through a duly issued Class M-1 or Class O liquor
license issued by the local liquor control commissioner in accordance with the
provisions of
Chapter 112.
   (C)   Special uses. Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, after public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the district:
      (1)   Special uses as listed in the B-2 Community Shopping District;
      (2)   Agricultural implements sales and service;
      (3)   Animal hospitals, veterinarian office, including boarding of
animals;
      (4)   Automobile dealerships which concentrates its business primarily in
the sale of new passenger vehicles, but also including the servicing of
vehicles and the sales of used vehicles in connection with the dealership,
subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Must be located on a lot that is at least five acres in size;
and
         (b)   The property must include a sales/showroom and service building
of at least 40,000 square feet in size.
      (5)   Building materials sales and service, where materials are stored
within an enclosed area;
      (6)   As used in this chapter, CANNABIS FACILITY shall mean a “dispensing
organization,” “infuser,” “processor” or “transporter” as defined in the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
and the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1-1 (hereinafter
collectively referred to as the Cannabis Acts). In addition to all other
special use permit standards required to be met pursuant to this chapter,
distribution facilities for medical cannabis shall meet the specific standards
listed below.
         (a)   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter,
located within the village, shall be and are required to be established,
operated and maintained in full compliance with the Cannabis Acts and all other
applicable village ordinances and state statutes;
         (b)   1.   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter
shall not be located within 750 feet of the property line of any pre-existing
public or private pre-schools, elementary schools, secondary schools or day
care centers. Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter shall
not be located within 750 feet of any property zoned within the UD University
Zoning District. In addition, dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or
transporter shall not be located within 750 feet from any of the following
identified locations: any public library within the limits of the village, the
Village Hall, the Romeoville Recreation Center or the Romeoville Athletic and
Event Center. For purposes of §
157.100(C)(7), the relevant distance shall be measured between the nearest
points on the property lines of the lot(s), tract(s) or tax parcel(s) used for
cannabis related uses, and the lot(s), tract(s) or tax parcel(s) or zoning
districts from which any separation required by §
157.100(C)(7) shall be maintained.
            2.   In addition to the distance/ separation requirements otherwise
set forth in this section, any dispensing organization, infuser, processor or
transporter located in a B-3 Zoning District shall not be located within 750
feet of any church or place of worship within the corporate limits of the
village that is located in a zoning district other than a P-B Zoning District,
an M-1 Zoning District or an M-2 Zoning District.
         (c)   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter
shall not be located in any building containing, in whole or in part, any
residential uses.
      (7)   Crematoriums;
      (8)   Depository and non-depository credit institutions, banks, currency
exchanges, pay day loans and similar uses subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   Drive-through facilities are permitted. New drive-through
facilities shall not face a public street.
         (b)   Indoor and parking lot security cameras are required in
conformance with section.
         (c)   Development of new depository and non-depository credit uses.
            1.   New construction on heretofore vacant lots must be a minimum
of two stories in height.
            2.   The second story must be functional and cover a minimum of 75%
of the floor area of the first floor.
            3.   New institutions in existing buildings are not required to add
a second story. Existing drive-through facilities shall be allowed to continue
but may not be expanded.
      (9)   Flex space with less than 50% office space but more than 20% office
space;
      (10)   Full-service hotel;
      (11)   Lumber yards; provided that the yard contains a principal building
of at least 5,000 square feet;
      (12)   Open sales lots in accordance with the special provisions as noted
in §
157.095(L);
      (13)   Resale of used clothing and/or resale of used sporting equipment
only; not to include pawn shops;
      (14)   Retail sale of general household merchandise previously owned by
the intended user or consumer, including clothing, furniture, home decor items,
kitchen utensils and small appliances, consumer electronics, sporting goods,
toys, recreational equipment and other household goods, but excluding
merchandise marketed, held out, sold, valued or otherwise considered as antique
merchandise, and excluding pawn shops and precious metal purchase shops,
subject to the following.
         (a)   All sales of merchandise permitted hereunder shall be conducted
entirely from within a freestanding building not less than 15,000 square feet
in area.
         (b)   All buildings used for the sale of merchandise permitted
hereunder shall include separate entrances for retail customers and persons
delivering previously owned merchandise to the establishment.
         (c)   All deliveries of merchandise to a building used for the sale of
merchandise as permitted hereunder shall be made in person to an employee of
the establishment during such hours as the establishment is open to the general
public, and the use of unattended containers, receptacles, depositories, boxes
or like devices for the receipt or collection of merchandise to be sold as
contemplated hereunder shall be prohibited.
      (15)   Sports arenas, stadiums;
      (16)   Sporting goods, including firearms sales and service. Facility
shall not include a firing range;
      (17)   Swimming pool sales and service;
      (18)   Theaters, including drive-in;
      (19)   Personal communication facility (see §
157.028); and
      (20)   Self-storage facilities.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning
Administrator of a permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a
temporary use: processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-
temporary nature connected with the construction of roads which are normally
removed when a specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this
classification after a permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This
permit shall be effective for a period not to exceed six continuous months and
shall not be renewed for more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use or with §
157.028.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Storage building/structure accessory and used exclusively by
occupants/tenants/owners of the premises;
         (b)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 32 square feet for each face
and setback from every property line at least ten feet;
         (c)   Outdoor dining areas, subject to the requirements of §
157.095(K);
         (d)   Outdoor sales, subject to the requirements of §
157.097(E); and
         (e)   Provision of massage or massage therapy, where incidental to or
offered in conjunction with any of the following lawfully established principal
uses: hospital, sanitarium, nursing home, physical therapy or rehabilitation
clinic, health or fitness club, spa or day spa or the practice of any branch of
the healing arts as currently and validly licensed by the state.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   District size. The minimum area for the B-3 District shall be not
less than ten acres. There is no maximum limit on the area of a B-3 District.
      (2)   Individual lot area. Individual lots within a B-3 District shall
have a minimum area of 15,000 square feet.
      (3)   Individual lot width/frontage. Individual lot width shall be a
minimum lot width of 100 feet; corner lots shall be a minimum of 160 feet.
      (4)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 150 feet.
      (5)   Lot coverage/impervious surface. Lot coverage/impervious surface
shall not exceed 60% of the lot. Lot coverage, plus impervious surface
coverage, shall not exceed a total of 85% of the total lot.
      (6)   Building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
altered to exceed a maximum height of 40 feet or three stories, whichever is
less.
      (7)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 60 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than ten feet for each side yard
from the property line.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 30 feet from the property
line.
         (d)   Transitional yards, where the district adjoins a residential
district, shall be provided in accordance with the following.
            1.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line
of property in an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along
the side or rear lot line. This yard shall be equal in dimension to the minimum
side yard which would be required under this chapter for residential use or the
adjacent property in the residence district.
            2.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with
the front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a residence district, a yard
equal in depth to the minimum front yard required by this chapter on the
adjacent lot in the residence district shall be provided along the front or
side lot line for a distance of at least 25 feet, from such a lot in the
residence district. There shall be an unobstructed, green setback of no less
than ten feet along the remainder of the front or side lot line.
            3.   If a rear lot line of a lot is contiguous to a side lot line
of a lot located in a residence district, a rear yard shall be provided along
that rear lot line equal in dimension to the minimum side yard required under
this chapter on the adjacent residential lot.
      (8)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio for
each lot shall not exceed eight tenths (0.8).
(Prior Code, § 159.073) (Ord. 05-0312, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-
1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 07-0509, passed 2-21-2007; Ord.
07-0599, passed 12-19-2007; Ord. 08-0651, passed 5-21-2008; Ord. 10-0816,
passed 1-20-2010; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 14-1086, passed 2-5-
2014; Ord. 14-1097, passed 3-19-2014; Ord. 16-1290, passed 7-6-2016; Ord. 17-
1375, passed 5-17-2017; Ord. 19-1533, passed 1-16-2019; Ord. 22-1794, passed 9-
21-2022; Ord. 23-1826, passed 3-15-2023) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.099 B-4 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of this district is intended to
provide certain areas for automotive service and related types of uses. The
district is intended to be located away from major highways and residential
uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall include the following:
      (1)   Automotive dealerships, sales and services;
      (2)   Automotive driving schools;
      (3)   Automotive, truck and trailer rental agencies;
      (4)   Automotive parts and accessory stores, sales and service;
      (5)   Battery, mufflers, shocks and tires sales and service;
      (6)   Bottled gas sales and service;
      (7)   Diagnostic service centers, motor vehicles;
      (8)   Car wash, truck wash, mechanical or self service;
      (9)   Contractors yards;
      (10)   Equipment rentals and leasing services with outdoor repair
services within a screened/enclosed yard;
      (11)   Filtration plants, pumping stations and waste-water treatment
facilities;
      (12)   Garage, truck or bus;
      (13)   Heavy equipment sales and service;
      (14)   Motor vehicle body shop, repair and rebuilding;
      (15)   Motor vehicle towing services, no outdoor storage;
      (16)   Paint shop, automotive;
      (17)   Public service or municipal garage;
      (18)   Public utility and governmental service uses, including, but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Electric distribution stations;
         (b)   Fire and police stations;
         (c)   Gas regulator stations;
         (d)   Radio and television towers and stations;
         (e)   Railroad rights-of-way; and
         (f)   Telephone exchange buildings, microwave relay towers and
telephone transmission equipment and buildings.
      (19)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity;
      (20)   Auto repairs, indoor only, not including paint and body shop
services;
      (21)   Boat, trailer, camper sales and service, in accordance with §
157.095(K);
      (22)   Mobile home sales and service, in accordance with §
157.095(K); and
      (23)   Shopping center (PUD required).
   (C)   Special uses. Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, after public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the district:
      (1)   Heavy equipment sales and service, with outdoor storage;
      (2)   Paint shop, automotive, with outdoor storage;
      (3)   Truck stop with repair services;
      (4)   Motor vehicle towing services, with outdoor storage;
      (5)   Off-premises or outdoor advertising (billboard) sign, see
requirements contained in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (6)   Personal communication facility (see §
157.028);
      (7)   Gasoline service stations, retail sales only, with convenience
stores;
      (8)   Planned unit development; and
      (9)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning
Administrator of a permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a
temporary use: processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-
temporary nature connected with the construction of roads which are normally
removed when a specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this
classification after a permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This
permit shall be effective for a period not to exceed six continuous months and
shall not be renewed for more than one successive period at the same location.
   (E)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use or with §
157.027.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Storage building/structure accessory and used exclusively by the
occupants/tenants/owners of the premises;
         (b)   Real estate signs, not exceeding 32 square feet for each face
and setback from every property line at least ten feet; and
         (c)   Outdoor sales, subject to the requirements of §
157.097(E).
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   District size. The minimum area for the B-4 District shall be not
less than five acres.
      (2)   Individual lot area. Individual lots within a B-4 District shall
have a minimum area of one acre, 43,560 square feet.
      (3)   Individual lot width/frontage. Individual lot width shall be a
minimum lot width of 150 feet; corner lots shall be a minimum of 200 feet.
      (4)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 300 feet.
      (5)   Lot coverage/impervious surface. Lot coverage/impervious surface
shall not exceed 60% of the lot. Lot coverage plus impervious surface coverage
shall not exceed a total of 85% of the total lot.
      (6)   Building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
altered to exceed a maximum height of 25 feet or two stories, whichever is
less.
      (7)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 50 feet from the property
line.
         (b)   Side yards shall be not less than ten feet for each side yard
from the property line.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be not less than 30 feet from the property
line.
         (d)   Transitional yards, where the district adjoins a residential
district, shall be provided in accordance with the following.
            1.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line
of property in an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along
the side or rear lot line. This yard shall be equal in dimension to the minimum
side yard which would be required under this chapter for residential use or the
adjacent property in the residence district.
            2.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with
the front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a resident district, a yard
equal in depth to the minimum front yard required by this chapter on the
adjacent lot in the residence district shall be provided along the front or
side lot line for a distance of at least 25 feet, from such a lot in the
residence district. There shall be an unobstructed, green setback of no less
than ten feet along the remainder of the front or side lot line.
            3.   If a rear lot line of a lot is contiguous to a side lot line
of a lot located in a residence district, a rear yard shall be provided along
that rear lot line equal in dimension to the minimum side yard required under
this chapter on the adjacent residential lot.
      (8)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio
(F.A.R.) for each lot shall not exceed one and two tenths (1.2).
(Prior Code, § 159.074) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-007; Ord. 07-0509, passed 2-
21-2007; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 18-1482, passed 5-16-2018)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.100 P-B PLANNED BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of the P-B District is to provide for
a setting whereby multiple use, contemporary business park development can
occur. The district may be established only in those instances where the
compatibility of a wide variety of architectural design standards, landscape
design standards and restrictive covenants which have been previously adopted
by the Village Board, have been found to exist at the time of any request to
amend a current zoning parcel to the P-B District. Only parcels that are a
minimum of 40 acres in size and under single ownership or unified control at
the time of application shall be considered for amendment to the P-B District.
The Village Board shall determine that adequacy of any proposed amendment to
the P-B District. Because developments within the P-B District, like planned
unit developments, are expected to incorporate multiple uses and a variety of
design standards in a contemporary business park setting, which uses may have
unique or unusual impacts on the use and enjoyment of property in the village,
the Village Board may authorize departures and exceptions from strict
conformance with the dimension, area, height, bulk and other regulations and
limitations of the P-B District, of the other provisions of this chapter and of
the other codes and ordinances of the village; provided the same are specified
in an annexation agreement, in an ordinance that provides for the zoning of
property in the P-B District or in an ordinance or resolution that approves a
conceptual, preliminary or final site plan for a use that is to be constructed
in the district.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall include the following:
      (1)   Casino (land based) subject to the approval of a development
agreement by and between the village and developer;
      (2)   Offices: business, professional, governmental and medical;
      (3)   Service business uses shall include the following:
         (a)   Automobile rental or leasing service;
         (b)   Depository and non-depository credit institutions, banks,
currency exchanges, pay day loans and similar uses subject to the following
conditions.
            1.   Drive-through facilities are permitted. New drive-through
facilities shall not face a public street.
            2.   Indoor and parking lot security cameras are required in
conformance with this chapter.
            3.   Development of new depository and non-depository credit
institutions, banks, currency exchanges, pay day loans and similar uses.
               a.   New construction on heretofore vacant lots must be a
minimum of two stories in height.
               b.   The second story must be functional and cover a minimum of
75% of the floor area of the first floor.
               c.   New institutions in existing buildings are not required to
add a second story. Existing drive-through facilities shall be allowed to
continue but may not be expanded.
         (c)   Conference centers;
         (d)   Data processing and computer center, including service and
maintenance;
         (e)   Gas/service stations;
         (f)   Health, tennis, racquetball, recreation clubs, fitness clubs and
spa or day spa;
         (g)   Philanthropic and charitable institutions;
         (h)   Restaurants, including alcohol sales and service, and drive-in
or drive-through service; and
         (i)   Schools - business, corporate training, data processing or
electronics.
      (4)   Industrial type uses shall include the following:
         (a)   Food processing, handling, distribution and warehousing;
         (b)   Laboratories, offices and other facilities for research testing,
data analysis and development;
         (c)   Light manufacturing and assembly;
         (d)   Printing and publishing;
         (e)   Storage and distribution not including bulk commodities or motor
freight terminals;
         (f)   Product research and development;
         (g)   Warehouse including storage of materials, goods or products and
office uses related thereto; provided that all storage occurs within a
completely enclosed building; and
         (h)   Showrooms and distribution facilities.
      (5)   Temporary uses of the land for the installation, maintenance and
operation of facilities used by contractors in the ordinary course of
construction related to a parcel of land which the temporary construction yard
is an integral part; provided such facilities shall be located not less than
200 feet from any building used for residential purposes (that building not
being a part of the development site subdivision-planned development) and
provided that the period of such temporary use shall not exceed the duration of
the construction for the development of the site;
      (6)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above uses or
permitted in any of the manufacturing districts, including structured parking.
The retail uses permitted pursuant to this division (B)(6) shall be included
within the same building as to which such use is accessory; provided that the
use permitted pursuant to this division (B)(6) may be accessed directly from
the outside by clients or customers and such use may be advertised by signage
that is separate from that to which it is accessory;
      (7)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity;
      (8)   Shopping center (PUD required);
      (9)   Public utility and/or service type uses as follows:
         (a)   Essential services, including fully- automated gas regulation
stations;
         (b)   Railroad passenger stations when not located on railroad
property;
         (c)   Water works, reservoirs, pumping stations, filtration plants and
wells;
         (d)   Sewage treatment plants; and
         (e)   Other governmental and utility service uses.
      (10)   Food truck or food truck operator, subject to requirements of
Chapter 122.
   (C)   Special uses. Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, after public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the district:
      (1)   Churches, church schools and other places of worship;
      (2)   Day care center and/or night care facilities;
      (3)   Full service hotel;
      (4)   Heliports;
      (5)   Hospitals;
      (6)   Hotel;
      (7)   As used in this chapter, CANNABIS FACILITY shall mean a “dispensing
organization,” “infuser,” “processor” or “transporter,” as defined in the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
and the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1-1 (hereinafter
collectively referred to as the Cannabis Acts). In addition to all other
special use permit standards required to be met pursuant to this chapter,
distribution facilities for medical cannabis shall meet the specific standards
listed below.
         (a)   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter
located within the village shall be and are required to be established,
operated and maintained in full compliance with the Cannabis Acts and all other
applicable village ordinances and state statutes.
         (b)   1.   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter
shall not be located within 750 feet of the property line of any pre-existing
public or private pre-schools, elementary schools, secondary schools or day
care centers. Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter shall
not be located within 750 feet of any property zoned within the UD University
Zoning District. In addition, dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or
transporter shall not be located within 750 feet from any of the following
identified locations: any public library within the limits of the village, the
Village Hall, the Romeoville Recreation Center or the Romeoville Athletic and
Event Center. For purposes of this division (C)(7), the relevant distance shall
be measured between the nearest points on the property lines of the lot(s),
tract(s) or tax parcel(s) used for cannabis related uses, and the lot(s), tract
(s) or tax parcel(s) or zoning districts from which any separation required by
this division (C)(7) shall be maintained.
            2.   In addition to the distance/ separation requirements otherwise
set forth in this section, any dispensing organization, infuser, processor or
transporter located in a P-B Zoning District shall not be located within 750
feet of any church or place of worship within the corporate limits of the
village that is located in a zoning district other than a P-B Zoning District,
an M-1 Zoning District or an M-2 Zoning District.
         (c)   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter
shall not be located in any building containing, in whole or in part, any
residential uses.
      (8)   Outdoor dining areas, accessory to a permitted use serving liquor;
      (9)   Planned unit developments in accordance with the provisions under
§§
157.200 through
157.207;
      (10)   Satellite antenna dishes conforming to §
157.028; and
      (11)   Other non-retail office, financial, institutional and industrial
uses, not specifically listed above, when found to have economic and
performance compatibility with the established uses or adjoining properties.
   (D)   General conditions.
      (1)   Not more than one principal building or structure shall be located
on a zoning lot within this district, except as a planned development.
      (2)   Every use, unless expressly exempted by this section, shall be
operated in its entirety within a completely enclosed building.
      (3)   Outdoor storage of goods, products, materials, supplies, machinery
or equipment shall not be permitted. Commercial vehicles shall be enclosed with
a fence or a solid landscape screen or any combination thereof at a height of
not less than six feet above grade.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided, establishments of drive-in or drive-
through types are prohibited.
      (5)   Every use, unless expressly exempted by this section, shall comply
with the “performance standards,” §§
157.029 through
157.034, if applicable. All retail uses, unless expressly exempted by this
section, shall comply with the Business District standards provided in §
157.095.
      (6)   Requests for uses or building permits of an industrial nature in
the P-B District shall be required to be accompanied by a certificate from a
scientific research laboratory or consultant approved by the Village Board
certifying compliance with the “performance standards,” as required in this
section, if such certificate is requested by the Village Board;
      (7)   Not less than 15% of the lot area shall be provided for landscaping
and open space purposes.
      (8)   A complete landscape plan prepared by a “landscape architect” or
qualified landscape contractor shall be presented to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review and recommendation to the Village Board for its action
before the issuance of a building permit.
      (9)   Outside lighting shall be designed and placed so as not to be
disturbing to adjacent residential areas or traffic or public roadways.
   (E)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   District size. The minimum area for the P-B District shall be not
less than ten acres.
      (2)   Individual lot area. Individual lots within a P-B District shall
have a minimum area of 20,000 square feet.
      (3)   Individual lot width/frontage. Individual lot width shall be a
minimum lot width of 125 feet; corner lots shall be a minimum of 175 feet.
      (4)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 160 feet.
      (5)   Lot coverage/impervious surface. Lot coverage/impervious surface
shall not exceed 60% of the lot. Lot coverage plus impervious 85% of the total
lot.
      (6)   Building height. The height of any building or structure shall not
exceed three stories or 50 feet, except as provided for in increased yard
setbacks where additional building height is being considered, the setback or
the required yard shall be increased by one-half a foot for each foot of
building height in excess of 50 feet. Parking shall be permitted in the
additional yard.
      (7)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards shall be not less than 50 feet in depth along major
or secondary arterials, or a major collector, as defined by §
157.003, and the village master transportation plan, or 35 feet along all other
roadways.
         (b)   Side yards: there shall be two side yards, neither of which
shall be less than 20 feet in width, except as provided by the divisions below.
         (c)   Rear yards: there shall be a rear yard of not less than 30 feet
in depth, except as provided by the divisions below.
         (d)   Rear and side yards adjacent to water areas. When 50% or more of
a rear or side property line is immediately adjacent to a natural water area or
a stormwater retention/detention area which includes, at its narrowest point, a
minimum width of 20 feet, the required rear and side yard shall be ten feet.
This provision shall only apply if adequate access is available to said water
area.
         (e)   Transitional yards, where the district adjoins a residential
district, shall be provided in accordance with the following.
            1.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line
of property in an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be provided along
the side or rear lot line. This yard shall be equal in dimension to the minimum
side yard which would be required under this chapter for residential use or the
adjacent property in the residence district.
            2.   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with
the front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a resident district, a yard
equal in depth to the minimum front yard required by this chapter on the
adjacent lot in the residence district shall be provided along the front or
side lot line for a distance of at least 25 feet, from such a lot in the
residence district. There shall be an unobstructed, green setback of no less
than ten feet along the remainder of the front or side lot line.
            3.   If a rear lot line of a lot is contiguous to a side lot line
of a lot located in a residence district, a rear yard shall be provided along
that rear lot line equal in dimension to the minimum side yard required under
this chapter on the adjacent residential lot.
      (8)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). The floor area ratio shall not exceed
six tenths (0.60) for a single-story building, nor one for a multi-story
building.
      (9)   Special provisions.
         (a)   Signage. Signage as permitted by §§
157.155 through
157.167.
         (b)   Off-street parking, loading/ unloading. Off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required or permitted by §§
157.120 through
157.126, except parking setbacks shall be as follows:
            1.   Front yard: 35 feet;
            2.   Side or rear yard: ten feet;
            3.   Side or rear yard adjacent to a residential use: 50 feet; and
            4.   No parking in corner side yards.
      (10)   (a)   Accessory uses accessory uses, buildings or other structures
and devices customarily incidental to or commonly associated with a permitted
or special use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained
under the same ownership and on the same parcel and do not include structures
or structural features inconsistent with the permitted or special use or with §
157.027.
         (b)   Accessory uses may include the following:
            (1)   Storage building/structure accessory to and used exclusively
by the occupants/tenants/owners of the premises;
            (2)   Real estate signs not exceeding 32 square feet for each face
and set back from every property line at least ten feet; and
            (3)   Outdoor dining areas, subject to the requirements of §
157.095(K).
(Prior Code, § 159.075) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007; Ord. 07-0599, passed 12-19-2007; Ord. 08-0651, passed 5-21-2008; Ord.
09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 10-0816, passed 1-20-2010; Ord. 11-0924,
passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 12-0990, passed 7-18-2012; Ord. 14-1086, passed 2-5-
2014; Ord. 16-1306, passed 9-7-2016; Ord. 18-1482, passed 5-16-2018; Ord. 19-
1606, passed 12-18-2019; Ord. 20-1675, passed 12-16-2020; Ord. 23-1826, passed
3-15-2023)
§ 157.101 DD DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The Downtown District is intended to create a distinctive, walkable
neighborhood that features a variety and concentration of valuable destinations
and activities.
      (2)   In conjunction with the downtown master plan and the Downtown
Design Guidelines, it is intended to:
         (a)   Create a more viable, walkable shopping experience;
         (b)   Introduce additional residents to the area;
         (c)   Create a compelling space for socializing and community events;
         (d)   Improve resident and visitor hospitality; and
         (e)   Improve and maintain the overall appearance.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses include the following:
      (1)   Retail:
         (a)   Antique shops;
         (b)   Appliance stores;
         (c)   Art galleries, studios and sales;
         (d)   Art and school supply stores;
         (e)   Auto accessory stores, retail sales only, no repairs;
         (f)   Bakeries, in which manufacture of goods is limited to those
retailed on the premises;
         (g)   Bicycle shops, sales and repairs;
         (h)   Book stores;
         (i)   Bridal shops;
         (j)   Business machine sales and service;
         (k)   Butcher shops;
         (l)   Camera stores;
         (m)   Camping equipment sales and rental (excluding trailers and
similar campers);
         (n)   Candle shops;
         (o)   Candy and confectionery stores;
         (p)   Card shops;
         (q)   Carpet stores;
         (r)   Cell phone store;
         (s)   Children’s apparel shops;
         (t)   China and glassware stores;
         (u)   Christmas shops;
         (v)   Clothing, sales, repair and alterations;
         (w)   Coin and philatelic (stamp collector) stores;
         (x)   Computers, sales and service;
         (y)   Convenience store;
         (z)   Creative industries:
            1.   Paint-it pottery;
            2.   Scrapbook stores;
            3.   Dance studios; and
            4.   Martial arts studios.
         (aa)   Drapery sales and service;
         (bb)   Drug stores and pharmacies;
         (cc)   Dry cleaning and laundry;
         (dd)   Florist shops;
         (ee)   Food stores, including grocery, convenience and specialty
(coffee, fudge, health, vitamins and the like);
         (ff)   Furniture and home furnishing stores;
         (gg)   Gift shops;
         (hh)   Hardware, paint and wallpaper stores;
         (ii)   Hearing aid stores;
         (jj)   Hobby shops;
         (kk)   Jewelry stores, watch repair and sales;
         (ll)   Ladies apparel stores;
         (mm)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
         (nn)   Linen and bath shops;
         (oo)   Men’s apparel stores;
         (pp)   Millinery and haberdasheries;
         (qq)   Musical instrument sales and repairs;
         (rr)   Music stores dealing in the sales of phonographs, records, tape
recorders, tapes, sheet music, compact discs, laser discs and/or cassette
tapes;
         (ss)   Newsstands;
         (tt)   Office supplies and equipment stores, retail sales;
         (uu)   Orthopedic and medical appliance stores;
         (vv)   Packaged liquor stores; provided that no more that 40% of the
square footage of the retail establishment is used for liquor sales;
         (ww)   Pet stores, sales and supplies;
         (xx)   Photo studios;
         (yy)   Plumbing supplies sales and service;
         (zz)   Pottery shops;
         (aaa)   Radio and television sales and service, including video
recorders, tapes, sales and rentals;
         (bbb)   Catalogue (order taking) offices of mail-order houses, retail;
         (ccc)   Sewing machine sales and services;
         (ddd)   Shoe sales and repair;
         (eee)   Special import stores;
         (fff)   Sporting goods sales, service and rental;
         (ggg)   Sports card, comic book stores;
         (hhh)   Stationary stores;
         (iii)   Tobacco shops;
         (jjj)   Toy stores;
         (kkk)   Variety and notion stores; and
         (lll)   Farmer’s market.
      (2)   Dining and entertainment:
         (a)   Restaurants and eating places (without drive-through);
         (b)   Ice cream stores or stands;
         (c)   Delicatessens; and
         (d)   Amusement centers, indoor only.
      (3)   Business and services:
         (a)   Artist and design studios;
         (b)   Depository and non-depository credit institutions, banks,
currency exchanges, pay day loans and similar uses subject to the following
conditions:
            1.   Drive-throughs are not permitted;
            2.   Indoor and parking lot security cameras are required in
conformance with this chapter; and
            3.   Development of new depository and non-depository credit
institutions, banks, currency exchanges, pay day loans and similar uses.
               a.   New construction on heretofore vacant lots must be a
minimum of two stories in height.
               b.   The second story must be functional and cover a minimum of
75% of the floor area of the first floor.
               c.   New institutions in existing buildings are not required to
add a second story.
         (c)   Beauty and barber shops;
         (d)   Brokerage houses;
         (e)   Catering services;
         (f)   Chambers of commerce;
         (g)   Charitable organizations;
         (h)   Child day care facilities or mini day care center (see §
157.003 for definition);
         (i)   Civic associations;
         (j)   Clothing and costume rental store;
         (k)   Clubs and lodges, private, fraternal or religious;
         (l)   Credit agencies;
         (m)   Currency exchanges;
         (n)   Data processing centers;
         (o)   Dry cleaning shops;
         (p)   Employment agencies;
         (q)   Electrical and household appliance sales and repair;
         (r)   Exhibition centers, meeting halls, community center;
         (s)   Furniture repair;
         (t)   Funeral parlor, mortuary (may include cremation as an accessory
use);
         (u)   Furrier shops, storage and conditioning;
         (v)   General repair shops (not automotive);
         (w)   Gift wrapping and mailing services;
         (x)   Interior decorating sales and service;
         (y)   Laundries;
         (z)   Libraries;
         (aa)   Locksmiths;
         (bb)   Mailing and business centers (faxing, mailboxes and the like);
         (cc)   Merchants’ associations;
         (dd)   Newspaper offices;
         (ee)   Pet groomers, without overnight stays;
         (ff)   Photocopying and printing (including blueprints);
         (gg)   Photographic and art studio;
         (hh)   Picture framing;
         (ii)   Radio and television: service, repair and studios;
         (jj)   Real estate offices;
         (kk)   Security and commodity brokers;
         (ll)   Shoe repair shops;
         (mm)   Tailor or dressmaker shop;
         (nn)   Theaters, indoor only;
         (oo)   Travel agency;
         (pp)   Upholstery stores; and
         (qq)   Video rentals.
      (4)   Professional offices:
         (a)   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping offices;
         (b)   Attorney and law offices;
         (c)   Business and management consultants;
         (d)   Engineering and architectural services;
         (e)   Insurance agencies;
         (f)   Investment companies;
         (g)   Land surveyors;
         (h)   Landscape architects;
         (i)   Professional consultants; and
         (j)   Real estate offices.
      (5)   Medical offices - doctor’s, surgeon’s and/or physician’s offices,
including:
         (a)   Chiropractor’s offices;
         (b)   Dentist’s offices;
         (c)   Opticians;
         (d)   Ophthalmologists;
         (e)   Osteopath’s offices;
         (f)   Podiatrist’s offices; and
         (g)   Medical clinic.
      (6)   Personal care:
         (a)   Barber;
         (b)   Hair salon;
         (c)   Nail salon;
         (d)   Tanning salon; and
         (e)   Tailor or dressmaker shop.
      (7)   Institutional:
         (a)   Civic buildings;
         (b)   Museum;
         (c)   Post office;
         (d)   Theaters and auditoriums;
         (e)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by
the village or other government entity; and
         (f)   Churches and church-schools, and other places or worship.
      (8)   The following uses are permitted in buildings located within 150
feet of Normantown Road or Independence Boulevard; provided that they face and
their lots have frontage on Normantown Road or Independence Boulevard:
         (a)   Drive-through facilities for banks;
         (b)   Drive-through facilities for pharmacies or drug stores;
         (c)   Drive-through facilities for restaurants;
         (d)   Drive-through facilities for ice cream stores;
         (e)   Christmas tree sales lots, subject to the requirements of §
157.097(E);
         (f)   Public parking garages;
         (g)   Community centers;
         (h)   Health clubs, tennis/racquet clubs;
         (i)   Commercial or trade schools (dance studios, music schools or
martial arts); and
         (j)   Business schools.
      (9)   The following uses are permitted only on the south side of
Alexander Circle and on the lots that are bounded on the west by Dalhart Avenue
and on the east by Townhall Drive (see picture,
Appendix B(A)):
         (a)   Three story multi-family condominiums buildings; and
         (b)   Single-family, attached residences.
      (10)   Special uses: the following uses are permitted in the D-D as
special uses:
         (a)   Apartments above ground floor commercial uses;
         (b)   Multi-family multi-story condominium buildings;
         (c)   Four-story buildings; provided that the fourth-story
incorporates superior architectural detailing;
         (d)   Drive-through facilities for banks;
         (e)   Drive-through facilities for restaurants; and
         (f)   Pubs. (The applicant shall be required to provide a business
plan which shall describe the nature of the property, the size of the bar, the
customer areas, whether there will be live entertainment, whether food will be
served and such other information as the village shall reasonably require,
including, but not necessarily limited to, a depiction of the proposed interior
of the premises.)
      (11)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   For the purposes of this subchapter, accessory uses shall
include buildings or other structures customarily incidental to, and commonly
associated with a permitted or special use.
         (b)   These uses shall be permitted, provided they:
            1.   Are operated and maintained under the same ownership and are
located on the same lot as the permitted or special use; and
            2.   Do not include structures or structural features inconsistent
with these uses.
   (C)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Building height.
         (a)   Purpose. Multi-story buildings will line the downtown streets
creating an interesting, pedestrian-friendly environment.
         (b)   Description. The Downtown District will feature a variety of
multi-story buildings housing different uses. As in a traditional downtown,
heights will vary based on the use of the building and its location.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulations.
            1.   Commercial and mixed use buildings are subject to the
following requirements.
               a.   The minimum building height is 20 feet.
               b.   Buildings must be at least two stories tall.
               c.   The maximum building height in 40 feet.
               d.   Additional height, in the case of superior architectural
elements, may be permitted by special use permit subject to such conditions as
the Village Board may reasonably require. See division (C)(10)(c) below.
            2.   Townhomes are subject to the following requirements.
               a.   Townhomes shall be between two and three stories in height,
allowing the downtown to step down in intensity into the surrounding
neighborhoods.
               b.   The minimum height of the townhomes shall be 18 feet.
               c.   The maximum height of the townhomes shall be 35 feet.
               d.   Additional height, in the case of superior architectural
elements, may be permitted by special use permit subject to such conditions as
the Village Board may reasonably require. See division (C)(10)(c) below.
            3.   Multi-family condominium buildings are subject to the
following requirements.
               a.   Building height shall be maintained at three stories for
multi-family condominium buildings. The Village Board may approve, as a special
use, taller multi-family condominium buildings with superior architectural
elements, subject to such conditions as the Village Board may reasonably
require. See division (C)(10)(c) below.
               b.   The minimum height of the multi-family condominium
buildings shall be 25 feet.
               c.   The maximum height of the multi-family condominium
buildings shall be 30 feet, unless taller buildings are approved by special use
permit.
      (2)   Building setbacks.
         (a)   Purpose. The buildings in the Downtown District will be located
close to the street to foster an animated, pedestrian-friendly environment.
         (b)   Discussion. By locating buildings closer to the street, the
pedestrian experience is enhanced thereby fostering walking and window
shopping. Buildings will be located such that they frame the pedestrian realm
while providing ample space for business operation and private yards on the
townhomes.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulation.
            1.   The building setbacks are as follows.
               a.   New construction and infill buildings must maintain the
alignment of facades along the sidewalk edge by following a build-to line.
Exceptions may be granted if the setback is pedestrian-oriented and contributes
to the quality and character of the streetscape. (See diagram, Appendix B(B).)
               b.   There is no minimum front/corner side yard setback except
along Normantown Road and Independence Boulevard.
               c.   The front /corner side yard building setback line may be
extended to 15 feet along all streets except Normantown Road and Independence
Boulevard if the setback is pedestrian-oriented and contributes to the quality
and character of the streetscape. (Examples are for outdoor dining areas and
front yards on townhomes.) The setback must be covered in a hard surface and
must be consistent with the village’s uniform paving plan. At a minimum, the
hard surface must be concrete with a heavy brush finish and California score
joints. Brick pavers, slate and stamped concrete are also acceptable surface
materials.
               d.   The minimum front/corner side yard setback is 40 feet along
Normantown Road and Independence Boulevard, inclusive of one row of parking and
a drive aisle.
               e.   The front/corner side yard building setback line may be
extended to 55 feet along Normantown Road and Independence Boulevard if the
setback is pedestrian-oriented and contributes to the quality and character of
the streetscape. The setback must be covered in a hard surface and must be
consistent with the village’s uniform paving plan. At a minimum, the hard
surface must be concrete with a heavy brush finish and California score joints.
Brick pavers, slate and stamped concrete are also acceptable surface materials.
               f.   The minimum rear building setback line shall be ten feet.
               g.   There shall be no minimum setback line for interior side
yards.
      (3)   Building massing and form.
         (a)   Purpose. The streets of downtown shall be reminiscent of a
traditional downtown with a variety of different stores and buildings
constructed over an extended period of time.
         (b)   Discussion. To give the impression of a traditional downtown,
buildings shall either be small be multi-dimensional in scale.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulations.
            1.   Buildings shall face the streets on which they have frontage.
            2.   For every 50 linear feet of building frontage, there must be a
change in horizontal plane to break up the large wall plane. The projection may
consist of setbacks, recesses, changes in plane accompanied by material
changes, roof decks, balconies or bay windows. (See picture, Appendix B(C).)
            3.   For every 50 linear feet of building frontage, there must also
be a change in vertical plane. Height variations, stepped roofs and gables may
be used to satisfy this requirement.
            4.   There shall be no maximum lot coverage.
      (4)   Architectural theme. A variety of urban architectural themes may be
used in the Downtown District. The architecture of downtown will not be limited
to one era as a variety of complimentary styles will create a diverse district
with the appearance of a downtown built over time.
      (5)   Franchise/signature architecture. Franchise architecture or
signature architecture (building design that is trademarked or identified with
a particular chain or corporation and is generic in nature) is not allowed.
      (6)   Building design - commercial buildings.
         (a)   Purpose. Downtown will incorporate interesting and animated
streetscapes that encourage pedestrianism.
         (b)   Discussion. Buildings in downtown will be designed at a
pedestrian scale to encourage people to stroll along the streets and visit
multiple destinations. This involves the use of detailed building elements,
especially along the ground floor elevation, that are interesting at a walker’s
pace.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulations. The following elements are
essential to creating a pedestrian-oriented environment and must be
incorporated into the design of each commercial and/or mixed-use building.
            1.   Buildings must maintain the quality of their character from
any viewing angle (360 degree architecture). All sides of a building must be
elevated. The materials used and horizontal design elements (such as banding)
used on the primary facades must be wrapped around the building. (See picture,
Appendix B(D).)
            2.   The ground floor must generally be located as close to the
sidewalk elevation level as possible so that it is at the same level as
pedestrians passed by. (See picture,
Appendix B(E).)
            3.   Buildings shall maintain a distinction between ground floor
and superior floor architectural treatments where the ground floor incorporates
larger scaled display windows and weather protected entries and the superior
floors incorporate smaller windows and design elements.
            4.   Building components, such as windows, doors, roofs and
balconies, shall have good proportions and relationships to one another. (See
picture,
Appendix B(F).)
            5.   The buildings must be compatible with neighboring buildings.
Buildings must be designed so that at least two of the following elements are
similar to those on adjacent buildings:
               a.   Wall heights;
               b.   Design of eaves;
               c.   Design and location of parapets;
               d.   Location and scale of awnings;
               e.   Design and scale of entryways; and
               f.   Window styles.
            6.   An entrance must be provided to each business. Corner
entrances and entrances facing each street are encouraged for businesses with
frontage on multiple streets.
            7.   The primary entrance must be accentuated through the use of
architectural embellishments such as columns, roof overhangs and pilasters.
            8.   Pedestrian weather protection, in the form of an awning,
canopy, recessed entry or other building element, must be incorporated into the
design of each primary entrance to provide a covered pedestrian space. The
space must meet the criteria set forth in these regulations.
            9.   The materials and colors, roof forms, fenestration, entries,
signage and lighting used on the buildings must meet the supplemental
regulations also contained in these guidelines.
         (d)   Commercial buildings - options. In addition to meeting the above
requirements, building facades which face sidewalks or rights-of-way must
incorporate at least three of the following elements:
            1.   Bay windows or other window treatments that extend out from
the building facade;
            2.   Articulated or varied roof forms;
            3.   Columns defining the pedestrian area or entryway;
            4.   Detailed paneling framing the entry and windows;
            5.   Balconies or roof decks at upper stories;
            6.   Decorative iron railings (example, Parisian balconies) at
superior floor doors and windows;
            7.   Decorative iron railings to define pedestrian space; and
            8.   Detailed window architecture such as arched tops, columns
framing windows and decorative lintels.
         (e)   Residential buildings - essential elements. The following
elements are considered essential to creating an interesting residential
streetscape and must be incorporated into the design of residential buildings.
            1.   Thirty-six-inch tall decorative wrought iron fences shall be
installed along the perimeter of the front yards of the townhome properties.
            2.   A mix of shrubbery must be installed around the base on the
townhome or multi-family condominium buildings to screen the foundation.
            3.   Each townhome unit shall incorporate a front porch not less
than five feet deep across no less than 50% of the front facade of the
building. The front porch may project up to eight feet into the front yard or
corner side yard setback.
         (f)   Residential buildings - options. Residential buildings
(townhomes or multi-family condominiums) shall include at least three
additional ornamental features, such as:
            1.   Decorative sills;
            2.   Cantilevered windows;
            3.   Copper/stone elements;
            4.   Bay windows or other window treatments that extend out from
the building facade;
            5.   Articulated or varied roof forms;
            6.   Columns defining the entrance;
            7.   Balconies or roof decks at upper stories; and
            8.   Decorative iron railings (example, Parisian balconies) at
superior floor doors and windows.
      (7)   Building materials and colors.
         (a)   Purpose. Building materials will be durable and complement the
character of downtown.
         (b)   Discussion. The village desires high quality materials on the
exterior facades of buildings. Building material and color must be harmonious
with others in the area. For example, limestone has a rich history in the area
and should be utilized when possible on building exteriors.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulations.
            1.   Materials. The following guidelines pertain to exterior
finishes in the Downtown District.
               a.   Medium to dark brick shall be used either as the primary
building material or to accent other building materials. Dissimilar materials
may be used when incorporating scale, form, color and other characteristics.
               b.   Materials shall be durable. Brick, stone and wood are
permitted.
               c.   Aluminum, vinyl siding, T-111 or equivalent and scored
plywood are prohibited.
               d.   Modular brick is an acceptable material for all building
types; however, oversize or large size bricks (greater than 30 square inches in
area) may only be used as an accent.
               e.   Adding detail through the use of decorative banding and
color or texture transitions is encouraged.
               f.   Plaster, stucco and other similar materials (such as EIFS)
are acceptable when used as a secondary material only, comprising no more than
30% of a single facade and not located on the ground floor elevation. Finishes
must be smooth; no “cake icing.”
               g.   Precast concrete and cast stone are acceptable if they
embody the characteristics of natural stone.
               h.   Cement board siding is acceptable.
               i.   Pressure treated wood in not allowed as a finished
material.
               j.   The use of wood shingle siding as an accent in dormers and
gable as well as a wall finish is encouraged if compatible with the overall
design of the building.
            2.   Material transitions.
               a.   When transitions in material are made, different materials
shall meet only at a transition piece or a change in plane, for instance an
inside corner.
               b.   Materials will not transition directly at an outside corner
edge. One material will turn the corner and carry over to the side elevation to
a point at which the corner looks solidly finished.
               c.   Corner trim pieces may be used where appropriate.
            3.   Color.
               a.   The color of buildings must complement the adjacent
buildings’ colors. At least 80% of the building shall be in a neutral color
with light and bright colors used only as minor accents.
               b.   The color of brick or other natural building materials
shall dictate the color family choice. Bricks in the red and brown tones are
encouraged. Acceptable brick colors are listed in the table below; however,
others are allowed provided that they fall within the color range of those
listed in the table.
 
Acceptable Brick Colors
Cloud:          Old Smoky, Burgundy
                Old Settler, Rockford, Quarum, Black Walnut, Tuscany, Country
Denver Brick:   Colonial, Hartford, Maison Rouge, Maplewood, Olde World,
                Brandywine
Pine Hall:      Vintage Red, Old Colonial
Robinson Brick: Cooperstown
 
      (8)   Awnings, canopies and arcades.
         (a)   Purpose. The pedestrian experience in downtown will be improved
by providing weather protection at each entry.
         (b)   Discussion. Canopies, awnings, arcades or recessed entrances
will be required at the entrance to each business to shelter visitors. They
will be designed to complement the human-scaled design.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulation. The following standards apply to
all commercial or mixed-use buildings.
            1.   Awnings must be sized, shaped and placed such that they fit
within individual bays or structural divisions of the building facade rather
than extend beyond a single bay to enhance the architectural quality of the
buildings.
            2.   Glass canopies may be used as an alternative to awnings
especially on darker or north-facing building facades to provide rain
protection while allowing daylight to filter through to storefronts and second
story windows.
            4.   The use of windows awnings on second stories and above to
create a consistent design image for the building facade is encouraged. These
awnings should be similar to those used on the ground floor in terms of style,
materials and color. (See picture,
Appendix B(G).)
      (9)   Building roofs.
         (a)   Purpose. Rooflines shall enhance the urban character of the
Downtown District.
         (b)   Discussion. Flat roofs with architectural detailing shall be
used to foster an interesting urban atmosphere.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulations.
            1.   Special roof shapes on corner locations can be used to help
accent corners of blocks.
            2.   Use a visual terminus, such as a heavy cornice, at the tops of
buildings to help articulate downtown architecture.
            3.   Embellish parapets with brick detailing and stepped or sloped
to achieve a visually interesting yet harmonious sequence along the building
facade.
            4.   Use articulated and varied roof shapes on taller buildings.
      (10)   Windows, glazing and doors.
         (a)   Purpose. Windows and doors will enhance the pedestrian
experience by providing a visual connection to the inside of the buildings with
commercial on the ground floor while aesthetically and functionally serving the
building and users on upper floors and in residential areas.
         (b)   Discussion. By providing minimum standards for glazing (windows
and doors) the aesthetics of buildings will improve and the pedestrian
experience will be enhanced. Moreover, the windows will provide display areas
for the businesses.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulation. The following criteria apply to
all commercial and mixed-use buildings.
            1.   All street facing facades shall be lined with windows. Unless
unavoidable due to physical constraints of the building or site, there shall be
no horizontal expanse greater than 20 feet without a window or door.
            2.   Windows must cover at least 50% of the building area between
two feet and eight feet above ground. However, expanses of glass greater than
ten linear feet must be broken with other building materials to create an
identifiable pedestrian-scale.
            3.   On ground floors, individual windows must be at least 60%
transparent. For example, tinted glass, frosted glass, textured glass and
materials applied to the interior of the windows to block views cannot cover
more than 40% of the window surface.
            4.   Windows must cover at least 15% of the building’s rear facade
facing a public right-of-way, parking area or open space.
            5.   When appropriate to the architectural style of the building,
bay windows are encouraged to articulate building elevations.
      (11)   Signage.
         (a)   Purpose. Attractive signs, at the appropriate scale for
downtown, shall identify businesses.
         (b)   Discussion. Signage shall be designed, lit and constructed of
materials appropriate for a downtown area. Large, back-lit box signs and other
signs geared towards fast-moving automobiles are not appropriate. Pedestrian-
scaled signage and signs geared to slow moving traffic shall be used.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulation. The following criteria apply to
business signage. Signs are prohibited on residential lots.
            1.   Projecting signs (geared toward the pedestrian) are
encouraged. These signs shall be no greater than eight square feet. No less
than eight feet of clearance shall be provided between the sidewalk elevation
and the lowest point of the projecting sign. Maximum distance between sign and
building face is one foot. Signs cannot block or obliterate design details,
windows or cornices of the building upon which they are placed. (See picture,
Appendix B(H).)
            2.   Flush-mounted signs are permitted provided that they are
either signboards or are constructed of die-cut letters made from materials
consistent with the building. Letters and signboards cannot exceed two feet in
height.
            3.   Window signs of high quality materials, such as paint or gold
leaf, or that are etched into glass are permitted. They may not exceed 30% of
the total area of the windows.
            4.   Individual letters identifying the businesses are permitted on
the valence of awnings. The lettering must be consistent with the design and
color scheme of the building and may not exceed ten inches in height.
            5.   Freestanding signage is not permitted in the Downtown
District.
            6.   Internally illuminated signage is not permitted in any
location.
            7.   Spot lights are acceptable for lighting signs but they must be
oriented and shielded such that the source of light is not directly visible.
(See Figure 11-4 pictures,
Appendix B(I).)
         (d)   Buildings constructed prior to the adoption of this section
(February 18, 2004) shall follow the sign regulations set forth in §§
157.155 through
157.167.
      (12)   Lighting.
         (a)   Purpose. Lighting in the Downtown District will foster a safe
environment for pedestrians and automobilists.
         (b)   Discussion. Lighting in Downtown must be sufficient to foster a
safe pedestrian environment. Lighting must be scaled such that it enhances the
streetscape and urban environment.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulations. The following criteria apply to
all commercial and mixed-use buildings.
            1.   Pedestrian scale ornamental lighting shall be used to replace
or supplement taller, vehicular lighting while still maintaining safe roadway
lighting levels.
            2.   Freestanding ornamental lights shall be no taker than 22 feet.
            3.   Building lights shall be diverted onto the buildings or the
ground immediately adjacent to the building and shall not cast light above the
roofline of the building.
            4.   The following lighting standards are recommended for streets,
sidewalks and pedestrian walkways. (Source: ANSI/IESNA RP-8-00)
 
                 Minimum        Minimum                         Veiling
                 Maintained     Maintained     Uniformity Ratio Luminance
                 Average Value  Average Value  Eavg/Emin        RatioLvmax/Lavg
                 (lux)          (fc)
Collector Level  12.0           1.2            4.0              0.4
Road
Local Level Road 6.0            0.6            4.0              0.4
 
            5.   The following lighting standards are recommended for parking
lots. Lighting Levels (Source: ANSI/IESNA RP-8-00):
 
Minimum horizontal illuminance (fc)  0.2
Minimum horizontal illuminance (lux) 2
Minimum vertical illuminance (fc)    0.1
Minimum vertical illuminance (lux)   1
Uniformity ratio, maximum to minimum 20:1
If personal security or vandalism is a likely and/or severe problem, a higher
lighting level may be required.
 
            6.   Higher lighting levels (four foot-candles) must be provided at
building entries.
      (13)   Off-street parking.
         (a)   Purpose. Parking lots shall provide convenient access for users
but shall not dominate the street.
         (b)   Discussion. Parking lots shall be sited, designed and landscaped
such that they are convenient, safe and architecturally pleasing.
         (c)   Criteria/standard/regulation.
            1.   Location.
               a.   Parking lots are only allowed in rear yards, except along
Normantown Road and Independence Boulevard.
               b.   One row of parking and one drive aisle shall be provided in
all yards adjacent Normantown Road and Independence Boulevard.
               c.   Wherever possible, parking lots shall be shared.
            2.   Circulation.
               a.   Driving lanes, parking spaces and pedestrian routes will be
clearly defined.
               b.   Medians will be used along drives and at the caps of
parking aisles to delineate the parking spaces from the driving lanes. The
medians will be at least four feet wide and will be landscaped with a variety
of shrubs and flowers.
               c.   Pedestrian walkways will be provided throughout the parking
lots. The walkways shall be delineated by using a variation in paved texture
and/or color, such as through the use of stone, brick or granite pavers,
exposed aggregate or stamped or colored concrete. Paint striping is not
acceptable. (See picture,
Appendix B(J).)
               d.   Parking aisles will be interconnected. Dead-end parking
lanes are discouraged. Dead-end parking lanes serving more than six spaces are
prohibited.
            3.   Landscaping.
               a.   Parking must be screened with fencing and plant material.
               b.   Wrought iron fencing with masonry posts and details must be
located along the perimeter of parking lots. The edges must be softened through
the use of appropriate plant materials.
               c.   The screening material must be designed such that
sufficient access is provided to the site for safety. (See picture, Appendix B
(K).)
            4.   Residential parking requirements.
               a.   At least one interior parking space must be provided for
each condominium unit in a multi-family building. The parking spaces must be
located in a parking structure. The parking structure may be located
underground, in the rear yard of the building; provided that it is screened
from view or on the ground floor of the building in areas that do not front the
street.
               b.   At least two interior parking spaces must be provided for
each townhome unit. They must be provided in private garages on the individual
lots.
               c.   Garages on townhome lots must be accessed from alleys.
               d.   Garages may either be attached to the dwelling or may be
freestanding in the rear yard.
               e.   There is no minimum setback for townhome garages provided
that they do not interfere with the vision triangle.
      (14)   Drive-through facilities.
         a.   Purpose. Drive-through facilities will complement the downtown
without providing negative impacts to aesthetics and circulation.
         b.   Discussion. Drive-through facilities are a reality in today’s
commercial climate. They are thus permitted in edge business locations but
their impact must be mitigated through proper design.
         c.   Criteria/standard/regulations.
            1.   When drive-throughs are utilized, they must be designed to
minimize the appearance and impact of the drive-through stations through
building style, materials and massing consistent with that of the principal
structure. (See picture,
Appendix B(L).)
            2.   At least five on-site automobile stacking spaces must be
provided for each establishment with a drive-through. In the event that there
are multiple drive-through bays, three stacking spaces must be provided for
each bay.
(Prior Code, § 159.076) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0509, passed 2-
21-2007; Ord. 08-0651, passed 5-21-2008; Ord. 10-0870, passed 8-4-2010; Ord.
11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 12-0984, passed 5-2-2012; Ord. 18-1482, passed
5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.102 INDUSTRIAL/MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The industrial/manufacturing districts set forth in this chapter
are established to protect the public health; to promote public safety,
comfort, convenience and the general welfare; and to protect and develop a
sound economic tax base of the village and preserve/increase the value of
property.
      (2)   These general purposes include, among others, the following
specific objectives:
         (a)   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a
well considered plan so that adequate space is provided in appropriate
locations for the various types of industrial and manufacturing type uses,
thereby protecting and strengthening the economic base of the village;
         (b)   To place in separate districts those industrial/manufacturing
uses which may create noise, odors, hazards, unsightliness or which may
generate excessive traffic;
         (c)   To permit selected industrial/ manufacturing uses in districts
where adjacency to or inclusion in a residence area has sufficient elements of
service or convenience to those area to offset the disadvantages which may be
created;
         (d)   To encourage the grouping in appropriate locations of compatible
uses which will tend to draw trade that is mutually interchangeable and so
promote public convenience and industrial/manufacturing prosperity and
contribute to the alleviation of traffic and pedestrian congestion;
         (e)   To provide for the establishment of off-street parking
facilities permitted and required so as to alleviate traffic; and
         (f)   There are created the following districts:
            1.   M-R Light Manufacturing Research Park District;
            2.   M-1 Medium Manufacturing District; and
            3.   M-2 Heavy Manufacturing District.
   (B)   Residential dwelling units. Residential dwelling units are a
“permitted use” within the M-1 Medium Manufacturing District and M-2 Heavy
Manufacturing District and are intended solely for use by the guards and their
immediate family members, when located on the premises where they are employed
in such capacity.
   (C)   Enclosure of operations. All industrial and manufacturing uses shall
be conducted within completely enclosed buildings, except:
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading (see requirements); and
      (2)   As may otherwise be provided for herein.
   (D)   Off-street parking/loading and unloading facilities.
      (1)   Parking of trucks when accessory to the conduct of a permitted or
special use shall be limited to vehicles having not over one and one-half ton
capacity, exception for pick-up or delivery services during normal hours of
operation;
      (2)   Trucks in excess of one and one-half ton capacity shall not be
parked in the open within 100 feet of a residential district boundary line;
      (3)   Provision of all off-street parking and loading facilities shall be
made in accordance with §§
157.026,
157.120 through
157.126 and
157.140 through
157.144; and
      (4)   All maneuvering and staging for parking, loading and deliveries
must be accommodated on site. There shall be no maneuvering or staging in
streets.
   (E)   Signage. Placement of signage in all business districts shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of §§
157.155 through
157.167.
   (F)   Outdoor storage.
      (1)   All storage for the building and accessory uses and products shall
be enclosed within buildings, except as provided for in this section.
         (a)   The use of containers (freight, oversees, cargo or portable-on-
demand storage units and the like) is prohibited, except for periods less than
72 hours in conjunction with a move or a remodel.
         (b)   In the event that it is not feasible to accommodate storage
within buildings, it may be screened by an architecturally-pleasing masonry
wall landscaped in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. The
masonry fence must provide full 100% screening from neighboring properties and
rights-of-way, as proven through the use of line-of-sight studies.
         (c)   In the event that it is not feasible to accommodate storage
within the primary building, it may be enclosed in an accessory building that
meets the following criteria.
            1.   One accessory storage building is allowed per zoning lot.
            2.   It must be located in the rear yard.
            3.   It may not exceed 1,000 square feet in area, 12 feet in height
from the floor to the eave or 15 feet in height from the floor to the roof
peak.
            4.   It must be constructed on a concrete slab capable of
supporting the material contained within the building. The concrete slab must
be at least four inches thick.
            5.   The accessory building must be architecturally compatible with
the principal structure. It must be constructed of durable materials and may
not be sided with metal or fiberglass.
            6.   The accessory storage building may be used for storage
purposes only. It may not be used for habitation, manufacturing, sales or any
non-storage use.
            7.   A minimum ten-foot pathway must be provided from an entrance
to the principal structure to the entrance to the accessory storage building.
      (2)   Outdoor storage shall be included and shown within the required
landscape plan.
   (G)   Landscaping. Placement of all landscaping shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of this section and §
157.037, inclusive.
      (1)   All applications for building permit requested for new construction
in any industrial/ manufacturing district must have a previously approved
landscape plan, which shall be submitted to the Village Planner for review and
subject to approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (2)   The exterior storage of materials and inventory, where permitted by
the Planning and Zoning Commission, shall be effectively screened from view
from any district boundary line and right-of-way. Landscaping may consist of
live or decorative plantings or fencing, and must be approved by the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
      (3)   Where business/commercial uses abut or are across the street from a
residential district, adequate landscape screening shall be provided, as
determined by the Village Planner and approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (H)   Performance standards. As described in §§
157.029 through
157.034 and herein.
      (1)   Any use established in a manufacturing district after the effective
date of this chapter shall be so operated as to comply with the performance
standards set forth herein for the district in which the use shall be located.
No use lawfully established on the effective date of this chapter shall be so
altered or modified as to conflict with, or further conflict with, the
performance standards established for the district in which such use is
located.
      (2)   All performance standards shall be governed by the current state or
Federal Environmental Protection Agency Regulations and the Occupational Safety
Health Act (OSHA). Also, the performance standards shall be governed by the
current Fire Department Guidelines and Requirements as recommended by the
National Fire Protection Association, and any other local governing
regulations.
      (3)   When hazardous liquids and gases and also toxic matter are allowed
to be stored under this chapter, then the Fire Department shall be advised in
writing as to the conditions, materials and manufacturer’s recommendations with
regard to firefighting (including evacuation plans and emergency action plans
and treatment).
      (4)   Every and any building hereinafter constructed, expanded, remodeled
or in any way altered or modified shall have as part of its general design a
decorative or functional structure having a height above grade of between 12
and 15 feet, and extending across not less than 50% of an exterior surface wall
facing a street or roadway.
      (5)   In addition, not less than the first four feet, measured vertically
from at grade, of any exterior surface facing a street or roadway, shall be
covered with a brick, stone or other decorative architectural material.
   (I)   Ingress/egress onto a public street.
      (1)   Access is limited to not more than two points of ingress and/or
egress per lot. The Village Board may approve additional points of access upon
demonstration of need and sound traffic planning and management principles.
      (2)   Minimum width to be 24 feet at property line. Maximum width to be
that of 40 feet at property line, or as may be approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission. This can include, but not be limited to, two through lanes,
one left turning lane and an appropriately landscaped island.
      (3)   Location to be approved by the Village Engineer, Village Planner
and/or as directed by the Village Planning and Zoning Commission and Village
Board.
      (4)   Details of design and construction shall meet all village
requirements.
      (5)   Entrance curbs and storm drainage provisions shall be required on
all street frontages, and shall meet with the approval of the Village Engineer
and the standard specifications of the village.
   (J)   Land use development or change.
      (1)   Upon new construction/development of any property within the M-R,
M-1 or M-2 Districts being either “permitted or special use,” under this
section, application must be to the village to have recommendations from
village staff, Planning and Zoning Commission and final approval by the Village
Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Upon the discontinuance of any “permitted or special use,” under
this section, the new use must make application to the village to have said
site and landscape plans reviewed by the village staff, Planning and Zoning
Commission and Beautification Commission for compliance with this chapter and
other regulations. Review by the Village Board of Trustees is not necessary for
a permitted use by this section, however, special uses and other amendments to
this zoning code are subject to further review by the Village Board.
      (3)   Documentation regarding use and bulk, lot coverage, street access,
parking requirements, accessory uses and landscaping all need to be submitted
to the Village Planner, Planning and Zoning Commission and Village President
and Board of Trustees for review and approval.
      (4)   Any construction or development of a structure with more than 2,500
square feet or on a lot or parcel larger than one-acre in size shall occur only
as a planned unit development.
   (K)   Special provisions. The following special provisions shall apply to
those specific uses outlined in this section.
      (1)   All outdoor parking, storage and sales space shall be improved with
a permanent, durable and dustless surface (asphalt or concrete), and shall be
graded and drained so as to dispose of all surface water without detriment to
surrounding uses. All unpaved surfaces shall be sodded and landscaped
accordingly.
      (2)   All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials and products
shall be enclosed by a fence, wall or plant materials adequate to conceal the
facilities from adjacent properties and public rights-of-way.
      (3)   No wastes or materials shall be deposited upon a lot in such a form
that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes or forces.
      (4)   All uses and activities shall conform with the performance
standards as enumerated in §§
157.029 through
157.034.
      (5)   Lighting used to illuminate any outdoor sales area, off-street
parking or loading areas shall be so arranged and designed as to reflect the
light away from adjoining properties.
      (6)   All outdoor parking areas shall conform with the off-street parking
regulations as enumerated in §
157.026.
      (7)   Linear lighting (including neon, fluorescent, rope-lighting, LED
lighting and low voltage strip-lighting) primarily intended as an architectural
highlight to attract attention or used as a means to identification or
advertisement shall be prohibited.
   (L)   Manufacturing lighting standards.
      (1)   (a)   A photometric plan will be required as part of the final
development plan for all nonresidential projects and for residential
developments that utilize parking lots. It will also be required for
billboards/signage where a final development plan is not required. The plan
must show the location, size (wattage), mounting height, orientation, type,
design and plans for all outdoor lighting and signs including wall mounted
lighting. The plan must show the levels of illumination in foot-candles (fc) at
ground level (minimum ten feet by ten feet grid). A catalog sheet showing the
proposed lighting fixtures must be included.
         (b)   Lighting for photometric plans must be maintained and operable
at all times.
      (2)   To reduce glare, only “fully shielded” or “full cutoff” light
fixtures are allowed. FULLY SHIELDED means that no light is emitted above the
horizontal plane passing through the lowest point of the light-emitting
element, so that direct light emitted above the horizontal plane is eliminated.
In addition, on sites adjacent to residential property, no direct light source
(bulb/filament) shall be visible at the property line at ground level.
      (3)   (a)   The average maintained illuminance shall not exceed nor be
less than 80% of the levels set below. Uses not listed below shall not exceed
nor be less than 80% if the levels set by the Illuminating Engineering Society
of North America (IESNA). The uniformity ratio shall not exceed the level set
by the IESNA.
         (b)   These levels include:
Use Average Minimum Maximum Uniformity Ratio
    (fc)    (fc)    (fc)    (Avg/Min)
Use                                 Average Minimum Maximum Uniformity Ratio
                                    (fc)    (fc)    (fc)    (Avg/Min)
Apartment parking lots              1.6     0.3     --      6:1
Auto lots                           7       1.2     20      6:1
Bank drive-through and ATM areas    --      --      40      --
Building entrances                  --      5.0     --      --
Church parking                      2.4     0.4     --      6:1
Commercial shopping center          2.4     0.4     --      6:1
Fast food facility                  3.6     0.6     --      6:1
Industrial parking                  2.4     0.4     --      6:1
Neighborhood shops                  2.4     0.4     --      6:1
Office parking                      2.4     0.4     --      6:1
Regional shopping center            3.6     0.6     --      6:1
Service station:
   - Pump islands                30      --      45      --
   - Service areas               3       --      --      --
Truck parking and maneuvering areas 2.4     --      --      --
Notes to Table:
 
These requirements only apply to areas used by vehicles and pedestrians.
They do not apply to landscaped areas.
 
      (4)   Where nonresidential sites are adjacent to residential sites, the
light level at the property line produced by the nonresidential lighting shall
not exceed 0.0 foot-candles.
      (5)   Except as otherwise allowed in the development regulations,
luminaries shall not be mounted in excess of 30 feet above grade, or the height
of the primary structure, whichever is less; provided, however, luminaries
located within 200 feet of a single-family residential zoning district shall
not be mounted in excess of 20 feet above grade or the height of the primary
structure, whichever is less.
      (6)   Service-station canopy lighting shall be accomplished using flat-
lens, full-cutoff, down-lighting fixtures, shielded in such a manner that the
edge of the fixture shielded be level with or below the light source envelope.
      (7)   All other under-canopy lights must be fully recessed into the
canopy.
      (8)   All nonresidential lighting is required to be turned off no later
than 60 minutes after business hours, only leaving the minimum lighting
necessary for site security.
         (a)   The minimum site security lighting must meet the minimum
standards in division (L)(3) above.
         (b)   1.   Security lighting must be capable of being activated and
turned off by photo sensors or time.
            2.   Security lighting must be illuminated one-half hour prior to
sunset and turned off one-half after sunrise.
         (c)   Parking lots must meet the minimum illumination standards in §
157.095(M)(3).
         (d)   For all manufacturing buildings developed prior to the adoption
of division (L)(1) above which were not required to submit a photometric plan
to the village, wall-mounted entrance/exit lighting is required for all
entrances and exits on commercial buildings.
      (9)   Definitions and terms used in this section shall be defined by the
IESNA Handbook, latest edition.
      (10)   All freestanding poles shall:
         (a)   Be located within landscaped areas or planter islands, or on
sidewalks, maintaining an accessible sidewalk width;
         (b)   Have concrete bases painted to match the primary building color
or finished to match parking screen walls, or shall have decorative steel
bases;
         (c)   Be located to avoid conflict with trees; and
         (d)   All poles shall be numbered.
      (11)   Commercial outlot lighting fixtures must be architecturally
compatible with fixtures used elsewhere in the development.
      (12)   The village shall have the right to conduct a post-installation
inspection to verify compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and if
appropriate, to require a remedial action at no expense to the village.
      (13)   Nonconforming lighting: all lighting fixtures shall be brought
into conformity when at such time as 50% or more of the poles are changed,
replaced or added on a property.
      (14)   The village retains the right to require that when a
nonresidential property abuts a residential property or the light from any such
nonresidential property directly effects any other property that high pressure
sodium lights shall be required.
      (15)   Linear lighting (including neon, fluorescent, rope-lighting, LED
lighting and low voltage strip-lighting) primarily intended as an architectural
highlight to attract attention or used as a means to identification or
advertisement shall be prohibited.
      (16)   Maintenance standards: all lighting fixtures present must be
illuminated and complaint with the adopted International Property Maintenance
Code.
(Prior Code, § 159.080) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 07-0519, passed
3-21-2007; Ord. 16-1306, passed 9-7-2016; Ord. 20-1628, passed 4-1-2020)
Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.103 M-R LIGHT MANUFACTURING/ RESEARCH PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of this district is as
follows:
      (1)   To provide for parcels of land for large, attractively landscaped
sites for research activities or specialized compatible industrial activities
and office buildings;
      (2)   To require adequate off-street parking and limited access to roads
through the use of frontage roads;
      (3)   To promote the grouping of M-R uses and oppose and discourage the
hazards to safety and nuisance to traffic congestion generated by “strip-
commercial” or “industrial developments;”
      (4)   To provide some retail uses that service the manufacturing research
uses within the industrial areas and that do not depend on the direct visits of
retail customers;
      (5)   To promote manufacturing research development in planned industrial
parks;
      (6)   To locate industrial uses on lands suitable for those purposes, but
at locations that would not be harmful or disadvantageous to nearby or adjacent
property;
      (7)   To encourage the grouping of compatible industrial activities,
thereby promoting convenience, efficiency and safety in transportation; and
      (8)   To discourage the intrusion of residential and commercial uses
which are incompatible with planned industrial uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No land shall be used or occupied and no building,
structure or premises shall be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied or used,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter for other than one or more of the
following specified uses:
      (1)   Business service or office establishments:
         (a)   Bank or financial institutions;
         (b)   Business offices;
         (c)   Professional offices;
         (d)   Regional sales offices;
         (e)   Merchandise and product display space, but not direct sales; and
         (f)   Clinics in conjunction with research.
      (2)   Industrial types of uses:
         (a)   Design firms;
         (b)   All manufacturing and industrial activities, including
fabrication, processing, assembly, disassembly, repairing, cleaning, servicing,
testing, packaging and storage of materials, products and goods that can be
conducted wholly within enclosed buildings;
         (c)   Electronic industries;
         (d)   Laboratories and research firms involved in the research,
experimentation or testing of materials, goods or products; and
         (e)   Printing, publishing or lithography establishments.
      (3)   Public, quasi-public and governmental buildings and facilities:
         (a)   Essential services-electric substation, sewage disposal plant,
water well site;
         (b)   Office building; and
         (c)   United States Post Office.
      (4)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity; and
      (5)   Food truck or food truck operator, subject to the requirements of
Chapter 122.
   (C)   Special uses. Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, after public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the district:
      (1)   Planned unit developments;
      (2)   Railroad rights-of-way and passenger stations, but not including
railroad yard and shops;
      (3)   Warehousing and wholesaling, but not including motor freight
terminals;
      (4)   Personal communication facility (see §
157.028);
      (5)   Establishments utilizing hookahs or water pipes;
      (6)   Contractor or construction shops;
      (7)   Automobile and truck painting, upholstering, repairing,
reconditioning and body and fender repairing, when done within the confines of
a structure;
      (8)   Motor vehicle towing services, with outdoor storage of vehicles;
and
      (9)   As used in this chapter, CANNABIS FACILITY shall mean a “dispensing
organization,” “infuser,” “processor” or “transporter” as defined in the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
and the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1-1 (hereinafter
collectively referred to as “the Cannabis Acts”). In addition to all other
special use permit standards required to be met pursuant to this chapter,
distribution facilities for medical cannabis shall meet the specific standards
listed below:
         (a)   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter
located within the village shall be and are required to be established,
operated and maintained in full compliance with the Cannabis Acts and all other
applicable village ordinances and state statutes;
         (b)   1.   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter
shall not be located within 750 feet of the property line of any pre-existing
public or private pre-schools, elementary schools, secondary schools or day
care centers. Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter shall
not be located within 750 feet of any property zoned within the UD University
Zoning District. In addition, dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or
transporter shall not be located within 750 feet from any of the following
identified locations: any public library within the limits of the village, the
Village Hall, the Romeoville Recreation Center, the Romeoville Athletic and
Event Center or the Romeoville Aquatic Center. For purposes of this division
(C)(9), the relevant distance shall be measured between the nearest points on
the property lines of the lot(s), tract(s) or tax parcel(s) used for cannabis
related uses, and the lot(s) tract(s) or tax parcel(s) or zoning districts from
which any separation required by this division (C)(9) shall be maintained.
            2.   In addition to the distance/ separation requirements otherwise
set forth in this division (C)(9), any dispensing organization, infuser,
processor or transporter located in a M-R Zoning District shall not be located
within 750 feet of any church or place of worship within the corporate limits
of the village that is located in a zoning district other than a P-B Zoning
District, a M-R Zoning District, an M-1 Zoning District or an M-2 Zoning
District.
         (c)   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter
shall not be located in any building containing in whole or in part, any
residential uses.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning
Administrator of a permit therefor, the following uses may be operated as
temporary uses:
      (1)   Temporary building, trailer or yard for construction materials or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the Zoning
District. Each permit shall specify the location of the building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each permit shall be valid for a period of not
more than six calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than four
successive periods at the same location;
      (2)   Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or
rental of real property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office
and the area of permitted operation. Each permit shall be valid for a period of
not more than one year and shall not be renewed for more than five successive
periods at the same location; and
      (3)   Real estate subdivision sign not to exceed 100 square feet for each
face. Sign shall be non-illuminated. Each permit shall specify the location of
the sign. Each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than one year and
shall not be renewed for more than five successive periods at the same
location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and
devices customarily incidental to or commonly associated with a permitted use
or special use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained
under the same ownership, on the same parcel and do not include structures or
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use.
   (F)   Prohibited uses. All uses not expressly authorized in this section.
   (G)   Site and structure requirements. The site and structure requirements
are as follows:
      (1)   Minimum lot area. A separate ground area of not less than 20,000
square feet shall be designated provided and continuously maintained for each
structure of land containing a permitted or special use;
      (2)   Minimum lot frontage. A minimum lot frontage of 80 feet shall be
provided for each permitted or special use;
      (3)   Front yard. All structures shall be set back a least 80 feet from
the front lot line on dedicated roads and 130 feet from the center line on non-
dedicated roads;
      (4)   Side yard. All structures shall be set in a distance of not less
than 30 feet from the side lot line;
      (5)   Rear yard. All structures shall be set in a distance of not less
than 30 feet from rear lot line;
      (6)   Maximum height. No structure or portion thereof shall exceed a
height of 25 feet;
      (7)   Floor area ratio. Not to exceed one; and
      (8)   Maximum lot coverage. Not more than 25 percent of the lot area may
be occupied by buildings and structures including accessory buildings.
   (H)   Special provisions.
      (1)   Enclosure of operations. All business, servicing or processing
shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings, except the following:
         (a)   Off-street parking or loading; and
         (b)   Accessory uses.
      (2)   Signs. All in accordance with applicable regulations set forth in
§§
157.155 through
157.167.
      (3)   Off-street parking, loading/unloading. Off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required or permitted by §§
157.120 through
157.126, except parking setbacks shall be as follows:
         (a)   Front yard: 35 feet;
         (b)   Side or rear yard, not adjacent a residential zoning district:
ten feet; provided that the required setback for off-street parking, loading
and unloading areas may be reduced to zero if an easement providing access
between and across the subject property and the adjoining lots(s) has been duly
recorded. Such reduction in the required off-street parking, loading and
unloading area setback may only be permitted along the lot line coincident with
the adjoining property that is party to the recorded access easement agreement;
         (c)   Side or rear yard adjacent to a residential use: 50 feet; and
         (d)   No parking in corner side yards.
      (4)   Performance standards. All in accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in §§
157.029 through
157.034 and herein.
      (5)   General landscaping. All in accordance with applicable regulations
set forth in §§
157.037 and
157.102(G).
      (6)   Ingress and egress. All in accordance with applicable regulations
set forth in §§
157.024 and
157.102(I).
      (7)   Outdoor storage. All in accordance with applicable regulations set
forth in §
157.102(K).
      (8)   Accessory uses. All in accordance with applicable regulations set
forth in §
157.027.
(Prior Code, § 159.081) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007; Ord. 08-0652, passed 5-21-2008; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord.
16-1306, passed 9-7-2016; Ord. 18-1482, passed 5-16-2018; Ord. 24-1932, passed
9-18-2024) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.104 M-1 MEDIUM MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of goods, materials or products shall conform with the performance
standards set forth herein (§§
157.029 through
157.034).
      (2)   All business, production, servicing and processing shall take place
within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. Within 150
feet of a residence district, all storage shall be in completely enclosed
buildings or structures, and storage located elsewhere in this district may be
open to the sky but shall be enclosed by solid walls or fences (including solid
doors or gates thereto at least eight feet high), but in no case lower in
height than the enclosed storage and suitably landscaped. However, open off-
street loading facilities and open off-street parking of motor vehicles under
one and one-half ton capacity may be unenclosed throughout the district, except
for the screening of parking and loading facilities as may be required under
the provisions of §§
157.120 through
157.126 and
157.140 through
157.144.
      (3)   Uses established on the effective date of this chapter and by its
provisions are rendered nonconforming shall be permitted to continue, subject
to the regulations of §§
157.180 through
157.187.
      (4)   Uses established after the effective date of this chapter shall
conform fully to the performance standards herein set forth for the district.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No land shall be used or occupied and no building,
structure or premises shall be erected, altered, enlarged, occupied or used,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter for other than one or more of the
following specified uses:
      (1)   Permitted uses within the M-R District;
      (2)   Adult entertainment facility or similar use subject to the
following conditions:
         (a)   Shall not be located within 250 feet of the property boundary of
a residential use; and
         (b)   Shall not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
boundaries of any school, day care center, cemetery, public park, forest
preserve, public housing or place of religious worship.
      (3)   Apparel and other products manufactured from textiles;
      (4)   Art needle work and hand weaving;
      (5)   Automobile painting, upholstering, repairing, reconditioning and
body and fender repairing, when done within the confines of a structure;
      (6)   Awnings, Venetian blinds;
      (7)   Bakeries;
      (8)   Books, hand binding and tooling;
      (9)   Bottling and distribution of beverages; works;
      (10)   Brushes and brooms;
      (11)   Buildings equipment, building materials, lumber, coal, sand and
gravel yards and yards for contracting equipment of public agencies, or public
utilities, or materials or equipment of similar nature; provided that the yard
contain a principal building of at least 5,000 square feet;
      (12)   Cameras and other photographic equipment and supplies;
      (13)   Canning and preserving;
      (14)   Canvas and canvas products;
      (15)   Carpet and rug cleaning;
      (16)   Carting, express hauling or storage yard;
      (17)   Ceramic products, such as pottery and small glazed tile;
      (18)   Cleaning and dyeing establishments when employing facilities for
handling more than 1,500 pounds of dry goods per day;
      (19)   Clothing;
      (20)   Consignment stores, pawn shops, resale stores, second hand stores,
precious metal purchase stores and other similar uses;
      (21)   Contractor or construction shops, such as the following:
         (a)   Building;
         (b)   Cement;
         (c)   Electrical;
         (d)   Refrigeration;
         (e)   Air conditioning;
         (f)   Heating and ventilating;
         (g)   Masonry;
         (h)   Painting;
         (i)   Plumbing;
         (j)   Roofing; and
         (k)   Landscaping.
      (22)   Cosmetics and toiletries;
      (23)   Crematoriums;
      (24)   Creameries and dairies;
      (25)   Drugs with warehousing and distribution of such items;
      (26)   Electrical appliances, such as lighting fixtures, irons, fans,
toasters, television receivers and home movie equipment, but not including
electrical machinery;
      (27)   Electrical supplies, manufacturing and assembly of (such as wire
and cable assembly switches, lamps, insulation and dry cell batteries);
      (28)   Food products, processing and combining of, baking, boiling,
canning, cooking, dehydrating, freezing, frying, grinding, mixing and pressing;
      (29)   Fuel sales, no retail sales and no gas station uses;
      (30)   Fuel sales with storage of fuel oils, gasoline and other flammable
products limited to 120,000 gallons per tank, with the total storage on a
zoning lot not to exceed 500,000 gallons;
      (31)   Fur goods, not including tanning and dyeing;
      (32)   Glass products, from previously manufactured glass;
      (33)   Hosiery;
      (34)   House trailers, manufacture;
      (35)   Ice, dry and natural;
      (36)   Ink mixing and packing, and inked ribbons;
      (37)   Laboratories, medical, dental, research, experimental and testing;
provided there is no danger from fire or explosion nor of offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare or other objectionable influences;
      (38)   Laundries;
      (39)   Leather products, including shoes and machine belting, but not
including tanning and dyeing;
      (40)   Luggage;
      (41)   Machine shops for tool, die and pattern making;
      (42)   Meat products/meat packaging plant, not including a slaughter
house;
      (43)   Metal finishing, plating, grinding, sharpening, polishing,
cleaning, rustproofing and heat treatment;
      (44)   Metal stamping and extrusion of small products, such as costume
jewelry, pins, needles, razor blades, bottle caps, buttons and kitchen
utensils;
      (45)   Musical instruments;
      (46)   Orthopedic and medical appliances, such as artificial limbs,
braces, supports and stretchers;
      (47)   Palm reader, psychic or similar uses;
      (48)   Paper products, small, such as envelopes, stationery, bags, paper
boxes, tubes and wallpaper printing;
      (49)   Perfumes and cosmetics;
      (50)   Pharmaceutical products;
      (51)   Plastic products, but not including the processing of the raw
materials;
      (52)   Precision instruments such as optical, medical and drafting;
      (53)   Products from finished materials: plastic, bone, cork, feathers,
felt, fibre, paper, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, precious and semi-precious
stones, rubber, shell or yarn;
      (54)   Printing and newspaper publishing, including engraving and
photoengraving;
      (55)   Public and community service uses:
         (a)   Bus terminals, bus garages, bus lots, street railway terminals
or street car houses;
         (b)   Electric substations, transmission structures and lines, wood or
metal poles and underground cables;
         (c)   Fire stations;
         (d)   Municipally- or privately-owned recreation buildings or
community centers;
         (e)   Parks and recreation areas;
         (f)   Police stations;
         (g)   Sewage treatment plants;
         (h)   Telephone exchanges;
         (i)   Water filtration plants;
         (j)   Water pumping stations; and
         (k)   Water reservoirs.
      (56)   Public utility electric substations and distribution centers, gas
regulations centers and underground gas holder stations;
      (57)   Repair of household or office machinery or equipment;
      (58)   Rubber products, small and synthetic treated fabrics (excluding
all rubber and synthetic processing), such as washers, gloves, footwear,
bathing caps and atomizers;
      (59)   Silverware, plate and sterling;
      (60)   Soap and detergents, packaging only;
      (61)   Soldering and welding;
      (62)   Sporting and athletic equipment, such as balls, baskets, cues,
gloves, bats, racquet and rods;
      (63)   Statuary, mannequins, figurines and religious and church art
goods, excluding foundry operations;
      (64)   Storage of household goods;
      (65)   Storage of flammable liquids, fats or oil in tanks each of 50,000
gallons or less capacity, but only after the locations and protective measures
have been approved by local governing officials;
      (66)   Tattoo parlor, subject to all health regulations of village,
county and state;
      (67)   Textiles, spinning, weaving, manufacturing, dyeing, printing, knit
goods, yarn, thread and cordage, but not including textile bleaching;
      (68)   Tool and die shops;
      (69)   Tools and hardware, such as bolts, nuts, screws, doorknobs,
drills, hand tools and cutlery, hinges, house hardware, locks, nonferrous
material castings and plumbing appliances;
      (70)   Toys;
      (71)   Wholesaling and warehousing, local cartage express facilities (but
not including motor freight terminals); and
      (72)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity.
   (C)   Special uses. Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, after public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the district:
      (1)   Banks and financial institutions;
      (2)   Business and professional offices;
      (3)   Carpet, floor and wall coverings sales and service;
      (4)   Electrical, plumbing, hardware, HVAC sales and service;
      (5)   Firearms sales and service, including a firing range, indoor only;
      (6)   Furniture and office supplies, sales and service;
      (7)   As used in this chapter, CANNABIS FACILITY shall mean either a
“cultivation center,” “dispensing organization,” “craft grower,” “infuser,”
“processor” or “transporter” as defined in the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq. and the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1-1 (hereinafter collectively referred to as “the
Cannabis Acts”). In addition to all other special use permit standards required
to be met pursuant to this chapter, distribution facilities for cannabis shall
meet the specific standards listed below.
         (a)   Cultivation centers, craft growers.
            1.   Cultivation centers and craft growers located within the
village shall be and are required to be established, operated and maintained in
full compliance with the Cannabis Acts and all other applicable village
ordinances and state statutes.
            2.   Cultivation centers and craft growers shall not be located
within 1,000 feet of the property line of any pre-existing public or private
pre-schools, elementary schools, secondary schools, day care centers, home day
care, group day care homes, part day child care facilities or an area zoned for
residential use.
            3.   Cultivation centers and craft growers shall not be located in
any building containing, in whole or in part, any residential uses.
         (b)   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter.
            1.   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter
located within the village shall be and are required to be established,
operated and maintained in full compliance with the Cannabis Acts and all other
applicable village ordinances and state statutes.
            2.   a.   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or
transporter shall not be located within 750 feet of the property line of any
pre-existing public or private preschools, elementary schools, secondary
schools or day care centers. Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or
transporter shall not be located within 750 feet of any property zoned within
the UD University Zoning District. In addition, dispensing organizations,
infuser, processor or transporter shall not be located within 750 feet from any
of the following identified locations: any public library within the limits of
the village, the Romeoville Village Hall, the Romeoville Recreation Center or
the Romeoville Athletic and Event Center. For purposes of divisions (C)(7)
(a)2., (C)(7)(b)2. above and (C)(7)(b)2.a. below, the relevant distance shall
be measured between the nearest points on the property lines of the lot(s),
tract(s) or tax parcel(s) used for cannabis related uses, and the lot(s), tract
(s) or tax parcel(s) or zoning districts from which any separation required by
divisions (C)(7)(a)2., (C)(7)(b)2. above and (C)(7)(b)2.a. below shall be
maintained.
               b.   In addition to the distance/separation requirements
otherwise set forth in this division (C)(7), any dispensing organization,
infuser, processor or transporter located in an M-1 or M-2 Zoning District
shall not be located within 750 feet of any church or place of worship within
the corporate limits of the village that is located in a zoning district other
than a P-B Zoning District, an M-1 Zoning District or an M-2 Zoning District.
            3.   Dispensing organizations, infuser, processor or transporter
shall not be located in any building containing, in whole or in part, any
residential uses.
            4.   Any special use permit granted prior to the adoption of this
division (C)(7)(b)4. for medical cannabis distribution under the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., prior to
January 1, 2020 shall also be deemed to permit the sale of recreational
cannabis under and in accordance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410
ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.
      (8)   Motor freight terminals;
      (9)   Off-premises or outdoor advertising (billboard) sign, see
requirements contained in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (10)   Restaurants, including drive-through facilities and alcohol sales
and service;
      (11)   Retail sales of goods or products manufactured, assembled or
warehoused on the premises provided that no more than 20% of the building be
used for retail space;
      (12)   Sales or leasing of truck, truck tractor, truck trailer, car, car
trailer, buses, heavy equipment, farm equipment and other similar uses when all
equipment is in operable condition; provided that the lot contain a principal
building of at least 5,000 square feet;
      (13)   Stadiums, auditoriums and arenas;
      (14)   Self-service storage facilities (SSSF) not in excess of 15 feet in
height to the ridge line of the units;
      (15)   Personal communication facility (see §
157.028);
      (16)   Planned unit development;
      (17)   Residential uses: dwelling units for guards and their families
when located on the premises where they are employed in such capacity;
      (18)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this division as “special uses,”
but closely similar thereto; provided that these uses are not explicitly
mentioned as a permitted or special use elsewhere in this zoning code; and
      (19)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship.
   (D)   Miscellaneous uses. Miscellaneous uses include the following:
      (1)   Accessory uses;
      (2)   Radio and television towers;
      (3)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period not to
exceed the duration of the construction; and
      (4)   Tent or fabric structures used for salt storage, sewage sludge
storage, landscape material storage or other similar uses, but only if the same
shall have been constructed or placed into use on or before August 7, 2019. Any
tent or fabric structure other than those within the meaning of the preceding
sentence shall only be permitted in accordance with the provisions of §
157.027(F)(1)(b).
   (E)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Minimum area. The minimum area for the district shall be not less
than ten acres.
      (2)   Individual lot area. Individual lots within a district shall have a
minimum area of 20,000 square feet.
      (3)   Individual lot width/frontage. Individual lot width shall be a
minimum of 100 feet; corner lots shall be a minimum of 125 feet.
      (4)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 200 feet.
      (5)   Lot coverage/impervious surface. Lot coverage shall not exceed 60%
of the lot. Lot coverage, plus impervious surface coverage, shall not exceed a
total of 85% of the total lot.
      (6)   Building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
altered to exceed a maximum height of 40 feet or three and one-half stories,
whichever is less.
      (7)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards. A 25 foot front yard shall be required from the
property line. For properties having multiple frontages, a front yard setback
shall be provided along each such street. For properties whose front yard abuts
a residential district, the front yard setback shall be not less than 50 feet.
         (b)   Side yards. Side yard areas shall be not less than 20 feet in
width, except that a side yard which abuts a residential district shall be not
less than 30 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards. Not less than 25 feet, except when a rear lot line
adjoins a railroad right-of-way, including also spur or team track right-of-
way, a rear yard need not be provided. Where abutting or across from a
residential district, a 50 foot rear lot line shall be required.
      (8)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio
(F.A.R.) for each lot shall not exceed eight-tenths (0.80).
   (F)   Special provisions. Special provisions include the following:
      (1)   Enclosure of operations. All business, servicing or processing
shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings, except the following:
         (a)   Off-street parking or loading; and
         (b)   Accessory uses.
      (2)   Signs. All in accordance with applicable regulations set forth in
§§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (3)   Off-street parking, loading/unloading. Off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required or permitted by §§
157.120 through
157.126, except parking setbacks shall be as follows:
         (a)   Front yard: required front yard setback;
         (b)   Side or rear yard, not adjacent a residential zoning district:
five feet side or ten feet rear; provided that the required setback for off-
street parking, loading and unloading areas may be reduced to zero if an
easement providing access between and across the subject property and the
adjoining lots(s) has been duly recorded. Such reduction in the required off-
street parking, loading and unloading area setback may only be permitted along
the lot line coincident with the adjoining property that is party to the
recorded access easement agreement;
         (c)   Side or rear yard adjacent to a residential use: 50 feet; and
         (d)   No parking in corner side yards.
      (4)   Performance standards. All in accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in §§
157.029 through
157.034 and herein;
      (5)   General landscaping. All in accordance with applicable regulations
set forth in §§
157.037 and
157.102(G);
      (6)   Ingress and egress. All in accordance with applicable regulations
set forth in §§
157.024 and
157.102(I);
      (7)   Outdoor storage. All in accordance with applicable regulations set
forth in §
157.102(F); and
      (8)   Accessory uses. All in accordance with applicable regulations set
forth in §
157.027.
(Prior Code, § 159.082) (Ord. 05-0312, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-
1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007; Ord. 09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord.
11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 12-0972, passed 4-4-2012; Ord. 14-1086, passed
2-5-2014; Ord. 18-1482, passed 5-16-2018; Ord. 19-1586, passed 8-7-2019; Ord.
19-1606, passed 12-18-2019; Ord. 20-1675, passed 12-16-2020; Ord. 23-1826,
passed 3-15-2023)
§ 157.105 M-2 HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   All production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of goods, materials or products shall conform with the performance
standards set forth in §§
157.029 through
157.034.
      (2)   Within 150 feet of a Residence District, all business, production,
servicing, processing and storage shall take place or be within completely
enclosed buildings, except that storage of materials or products may be open to
the sky; provided the storage area is enclosed with a solid wall or fence, as
required within this chapter, or as additionally required by the Zoning
Officer. However, within 150 feet of a Residence District, off-street loading
facilities and off-street parking of motor vehicles under one and one-half ton
capacity may be unenclosed, except for screening of parking and loading
facilities as may be required under the provisions of §§
157.140 through
157.144.
   (B)   Permitted. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the M-1 District;
      (2)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of materials, goods or products which conforms to the performance
standards established for this district;
      (3)   Cement block manufacturer; and
      (4)   Personal communication facility, located on property owned by the
village or other government entity.
   (C)   Special uses. Upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, after public hearing on the petition pertaining thereto, in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
157.226, the corporate authorities of the village may, by “special use permit,”
allow the following in the district:
      (1)   Any use which may be allowed as a “special use” in the M-
1 District;
      (2)   Clean construction and demolition debris (CCDD) facility in
conformance with the state statutes governing the siting, location, approval,
notice, study and fees of such facilities. In addition, CCDD facilities must
conform to the following standards.
         (a)   Facilities must obtain and maintain a permit from the State
Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). Facilities must conform to all IEPA
regulations and submit to all inspections from the IEPA or its designee, the
County Land Use Department.
         (b)   The borders of the property shall be screened with a solid
fence, wall, landscaped berm at least six feet in height or natural screen
barrier capable of providing 100% screening when the property is adjacent to or
across the street from any district other than an industrial district or when
the property abuts a public right-of-way.
         (c)   Facilities must ensure that no dirt, mud, dust or debris is
tracked onto any public roadway by vehicles leaving the site. Any costs for
road cleaning shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant.
         (d)   All loads accepted for disposal at the site shall be able to
trace back to their point of origin through the use of the applicable IEPA
certification form and a profile number unique to each generating source
location. Records of loads accepted shall be kept in accordance with the site’s
IEPA permit or for a period of three years. In the event of consolidated loads
accepted containing soils originating from more than one generator, a list of
all origins will be traceable from the records or confirmation through
analytical testing may be utilized.
         (e)   At a minimum, one random soil load delivered to the facility
each day shall be selected for a discharge inspection. The driver of any
randomly selected load must be directed to discharge the load at a separate,
designated location within the facility. The load shall be spread out and
screened with a PID or other monitoring devices approved by the applicable
authorities. Readings shall not exceed the background levels. Loads shall also
be screened for non-CCDD materials. Documentation of results shall be recorded
and the records kept per the site’s IEPA permit. If the load is rejected, then
the load is to be immediately removed from the site and no further loads are to
be accepted from the generating source until compliance with IEPA regulations
can be re-established.
         (f)   Any rejected loads shall be reported to the applicable
authorities within 24 hours. For all loads, the owner or operator is required
to report, at a minimum, name and location address of facility, the date and
time of the inspection, the weight or volume of the CCDD or uncontaminated
soil, the name of the hauler, the name of the hauling firm, the vehicle
identification number or license plate number, the source site owner and
operator and the location of the site of origin of the fill.
         (g)   No on-site salvaging of CCDD materials or byproducts shall be
allowed unless expressly permitted by the IEPA. Materials serving a beneficial
use on site may be re-used.
         (h)   A plan for the reclamation of the land shall be provided as part
of the application for the special use permit. The plan of reclamation shall be
accompanied by security in an amount equal to the cost to cover the site with
one foot of topsoil and appropriate seeding. The applicant shall provide a cost
estimate for this work by a certified professional engineer. This estimate may
be reviewed every five years and adjusted for the current state of the facility
and the Construction Cost Index (CCI). Any security amount required by the IEPA
may be deducted from this amount.
         (i)   In the event of facility closure by any enforcement agency,
operations shall cease until the facility owner provides written proof that the
matter has been resolved with the applicable authorities, and that such
authorities or a court of competent jurisdiction have authorized the reopening
and continued operation of the facility.
      (3)   Compost facility in conformance with the state statutes governing
the siting, location, approval, notice, study and fees of such facilities. In
addition, compost facilities must conform to following standards.
         (a)   Facilities must obtain and maintain a permit from the State
Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). Facilities must conform to all IEPA
regulations and submit to all inspections from the IEPA, or its designee, the
County Land Use Department.
         (b)   The borders of the property shall be screened with a solid
fence, wall or landscaped berm at least six feet in height when the property is
adjacent to or across the street from any district other than an industrial
district or when the property abuts a public right-of-way.
         (c)   Facilities must ensure that no dirt, mud, dust or debris is
tracked onto any public roadway by vehicles leaving the site. Any costs for
road cleaning shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant.
      (4)   Electrical power generation station or facility in conformance with
the state statutes governing the siting, location, approval, notice, study and
fees of such facilities. In addition, such facilities must conform to following
standards.
         (a)   Facilities must obtain and maintain a permit from the State
Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). Facilities must conform to all IEPA
regulations and submit to all inspections from the IEPA or its designee.
         (b)   The borders of the property shall be screened with a solid
fence, wall or landscaped berm at least six feet in height when the property is
adjacent to or across the street from any district other than an industrial
district or when the property abuts a public right-of-way.
         (c)   Facilities must ensure that no dirt, mud, dust or debris is
tracked onto any public roadway by vehicles leaving the site. Any costs for
road cleaning shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant.
      (5)   Junk yards and automobile wrecking yards; provided they are
contained within completely enclosed buildings or screened by a solid wall or
uniformly painted solid fence at least 12 feet high. Outside storage not to
exceed the height of the solid fence or if the topography of nearby residential
areas within 660 feet allows for visual contact, outside storage shall not be
seen;
      (6)   Mining or extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, topsoil or other
aggregates, including equipment, buildings or structures for screening,
crushing, mixing, washing or storage; provided that:
         (a)   No open pit or shaft will be less than 200 feet from any
property line or public right-of-way;
         (b)   All buildings or structures shall be located not less than 200
feet from any property line;
         (c)   The borders of the property shall be fenced with a solid fence
or wall at least six feet in height when the property is adjacent to or across
the street from any district other than an industrial district;
         (d)   A plan of development for the reclamation of the land shall be
provided as part of the application for the special use permit. The plan of
development shall be accompanied by a written agreement between the owner or
their agent and the village and a performance bond in an amount equal to the
cost of the reclamation of the land as set forth in the development plan;
         (e)   No blasting or other use of explosives is permitted unless
specifically requested and authorized within the special use permit after the
required public hearing by the Planning and Zoning Commission (PZC). If
permitted by the Village Board, blasting must conform to the following
standards.
            1.   The use, handling and detonation of explosives (sometimes
referred to as “blasting”) in connection with said quarrying operations shall
be under the direct supervision of persons having the requisite experience and
knowledge to conduct such operations with safety. If such persons are hereafter
required to be licensed by any federal agency, state or county, such persons
shall meet the licensing requirements and obtain such license and furnish such
proof to the village.
            2.   The storage of explosives shall be in accordance with all
applicable federal and state laws and regulations and shall be stored in
magazines, buildings or structures which shall meet the safety requirements of
such laws and regulations.
            3.   Blasting procedures shall be in accordance with modern
techniques, generally accepted in the quarrying industry, whereby a shot shall
consist of a series of drill holes containing quantities of explosives fired or
detonated in sequence of multiple delays at intervals of milliseconds, so as to
counteract and reduce the ground motion or earthborne vibration from each
successive detonation (sometimes referred to as “short period delay blasting”).
Blasting procedures shall be designed, on the basis of maximum charge per delay
(that is, quantity of explosives in pounds per detonation) and distances in
feet, so that the maximum ground vibration intensity shall not exceed 0.5
inches per second of ground particle velocity resulting from any shot or blast
measured by any one of three mutually perpendicular planes of ground motion as
recorded at the nearest existing building.
            4.   Blasting procedures shall be subject to and comply with the
applicable lawful requirements of the State Pollution Control Board, State
Department of Mines and Minerals, Mine Enforcement and Safety Administration
(MESA) of the United States Department of the Interior, and any other
governmental agency having jurisdiction thereof.
            5.   Blasting procedures shall be in conformity with approved
safety regulations, customs and practices generally accepted in the quarrying
industry, and the safety regulations of governmental agencies having
jurisdiction thereof.
            6.   Compliance with the provision of these regulations governing
blasting procedures and quarrying operations shall be subject to review and
inspection from time to time by authorized village officials, upon reasonable
prior notice and during reasonable business hours.
            7.   The actual detonation of any blast will be restrictive to the
local time period between 1:00 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday of
each week. No blasting shall take place on Sunday or on the following legal
holidays: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
      (7)   Personal communication facilities;
      (8)   Pollution control facilities, including, but not limited to,
landfill and/or compaction operations, used in the disposal and/or storage of
wastes, not classified as “hazardous, special wastes,” by the appropriate
county, state and/or federal governmental agencies;
      (9)   Recycling center, garbage transfer station or similar type of use
in conformance with the state statutes governing the siting, location,
approval, notice, study and fees of such facilities;
      (10)   Stockyards, slaughtering, livestock, poultry and the like;
      (11)   Temporary building, trailer or yard for construction materials or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the zoning
district. Each permit shall specify the location of the building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each permit shall be valid for a period of not
more than six calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than four
successive periods at the same location;
      (12)   Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or
rental of real property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office
and the area of permitted operation. Each permit shall be valid for a period of
not more than one year and shall not be renewed for more than five successive
periods at the same location; and
      (13)   Real estate subdivision sign not to exceed 100 square feet for
each face. Sign shall be non-illuminated. Each permit shall specify the
location of the sign. Each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than
one year and shall not be renewed for more than five successive periods at the
same location.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning Officer
of a permit therefor, the following uses may be operated as temporary uses:
      (1)   Temporary building, trailer or yard for construction materials or
equipment, both incidental and necessary to construction in the Zoning
District. Each permit shall specify the location of the building or yard and
the area of permitted operation. Each permit shall be valid for a period of not
more than six calendar months and shall not be renewed for more than four
successive periods at the same location;
      (2)   Temporary office, both incidental and necessary for the sale or
rental of real property. Each permit shall specify the location of the office
and the area of permitted operation. Each permit shall be valid for a period of
not more than one year and shall not be renewed for more than five successive
periods at the same location; and
      (3)   Real estate subdivision sign not to exceed 100 square feet for each
face. Sign shall be non illuminated. Each permit shall specify the location of
the sign. Each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than year and
shall not be renewed for more than five successive periods at the same
location.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and
devices customarily incidental to or commonly associated with a permitted use
or special use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained
under the same ownership, on the same parcel, and do not include structures or
features inconsistent with the permitted use or special use.
   (F)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   Minimum area. The minimum area for the district shall be not less
than ten acres.
      (2)   Individual lot area. Individual lots within a district shall have a
minimum area of one acre, 43,560 square feet.
      (3)   Individual lot width/frontage. Individual lots shall be a minimum
width of 200 feet; corner lots shall be a minimum of 225 feet.
      (4)   Lot depth. The minimum lot depth for each lot shall not be less
than 200 feet.
      (5)   Lot coverage/impervious surface. Lot coverage shall not exceed 60%
of the lot. Lot coverage, plus impervious surface coverage, shall not exceed a
total of 85% of the total lot.
      (6)   Building height. No building or structure shall be erected or
altered to exceed a maximum height of 40 feet or three and one-half stories,
whichever is less.
      (7)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards. A 25-foot front yard shall be required from the
property line. For properties having multiple frontages, a front yard setback
shall be provided along each such street. For properties whose front yard abuts
a residential district, the front yard setback shall be not less than 50 feet.
         (b)   Side yards. Side yard areas shall be not less than 20 feet in
width, except that a side yard which abuts a residential district shall be not
less than 30 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards. Not less than 25 feet, except when a rear lot line
adjoins a railroad right-of-way, including also spur or team track right-of-
way, a rear yard need not be provided. Where abutting or across from a
residential district, a 50 foot rear lot line shall be required.
      (8)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). For all uses, the floor area ratio
(F.A.R.) for each lot shall not exceed 0.85.
   (G)   Special provisions. Special provisions include the following:
      (1)   Enclosure of operations. All business, servicing or processing
shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings, except the following:
         (a)   Off-street parking or loading; and
         (b)   Accessory uses.
      (2)   Signs. All in accordance with applicable regulations set forth in
§§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (3)   Off-street parking, loading/unloading. Off-street parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required or permitted by §§
157.120 through
157.126, except parking setbacks shall be as follows:
         (a)   Front yard: required front yard setback;
         (b)   Side or rear yard, not adjacent a residential zoning district:
five feet side or ten feet rear; provided that the required setback for off-
street parking, loading and unloading areas may be reduced to zero if an
easement providing access between and across the subject property and the
adjoining lots(s) has been duly recorded. Such reduction in the required off-
street parking, loading and unloading area setback may only be permitted along
the lot line coincident with the adjoining property that is party to the
recorded access easement agreement;
         (c)   Side or rear yard adjacent to a residential use: 50 feet; and
         (d)   No parking in corner side yards.
      (4)   Performance standards. All in accordance with applicable
regulations set forth in §§
157.029 through
157.034 and herein;
      (5)   General landscaping. All in accordance with applicable regulations
set forth in §§
157.037 and
157.103(G);
      (6)   Ingress and egress. All in accordance with applicable regulations
set forth in §§
157.024 and
157.102(I);
      (7)   Outdoor storage. All in accordance with applicable regulations set
forth in §
157.102(F);
      (8)   Accessory uses. All in accordance with applicable regulations set
forth in §
157.027; and
      (9)   IEPA regulations adopted by reference.
         (a)   The standards, specifications and regulations of the State
Environmental Protection Agency, latest editions, are incorporated into this
chapter and made a part thereof this reference.
         (b)   Such standards, specifications and regulations shall include
those as required by the following:
            1.   State Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Public
Water Supplies, 35 I.A.C. pt. 301 et seq.;
            2.   State Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Livestock
Waste, 35 I.A.C. pt. 580, et seq.;
            3.   State Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Solid
Waste, 35 I.A.C. pt. 807 et seq.;
            4.   State Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Air
Pollution Regulations, 35 I.A.C. pt. 201 et seq.;
            5.   State Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Noise
Pollution Control Regulations, 35 I.A.C. pt. 900 et seq.;
            6.   State Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Water
Pollution, 35 I.A.C. pt. 301 et seq.; and
            7.   State: The Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/, and
State Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations, 35 I.A.C. pt. 101 et seq.,
Mine Waste Regulations, 35 I.A.C. pt. 406 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 159.083) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007; Ord. 11-0924, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 11-0925, passed 10-5-2011; Ord.
14-1086, passed 2-5-2014) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.106 AIRPORT DISTRICTS GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The airport districts are intended as a zoning
designation applied to a large land area which includes a General Aviation/
Reliever Category Airport, as defined by FAA standards and related ancillary
uses. These uses include, but are not limited to, those necessary for airport
operations and certain airport related industrial and commercial uses. The
district is further intended to allow for efficient airport operations and
utilization of certain amenity uses. These general purposes include the
following specific objectives:
      (1)   Promotion of the most desirable use of land in conformance with an
FAA approved airport site plan;
      (2)   Promotion of the economic viability and operational value of the
airport located within the district; and
      (3)   To encourage the development of the airport within the district as
an entity which will benefit transportation and economic development on a local
and regional basis.
(Prior Code, § 159.090)
§ 157.107 AD-1 AIRPORT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following types of land use are permitted in this
district:
      (1)   Uses designed to store or house aircraft (i.e., hangers, ground or
the like);
      (2)   Uses designed for servicing and maintenance of aircraft;
      (3)   The construction, use and operation of runways designed for the
ground and air movements of aircraft;
      (4)   General Aviation/Reliever Category Airports, as defined by FAA
standards and related ancillary uses;
      (5)   Residential uses, but only in conjunction with and on the same lot
as an agricultural use or as allowed by applicable commercial or industrial
district regulations;
      (6)   Lot areas and widths for public utility or governmental uses shall
be as regulated by this section and not as recommended by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and/or Village Board, respectively;
      (7)   All the uses listed or allowed as either permitted or special use
or accessory uses under the A-1, P-1, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, M-R and M-1 Districts
shall be permitted uses in the AD-1 District, except personal communication
facilities which shall be a special use in the AD-1 District and in accordance
with §§
157.062(N) and
157.226, except as provided in division (A)(10);
      (8)   Roadside stands 600 square feet or less in size used for the
display and sale of any agricultural product, except live animals and located
only on lots which include an agricultural use;
      (9)   For the purposes of this section, accessory uses shall be allowed
as permitted or principal uses and subject to all principal use regulations;
      (10)   Personal communication facility; and
      (11)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section as permitted uses
but are closely similar thereto provided that those uses are not explicitly
listed as prohibited uses.
   (B)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Residential uses which are not in conjunction with or on the same
lot as an agricultural use and residential uses which are not established as
per applicable regulations of any commercial or industrial district or use;
      (2)   Public or private incinerators;
      (3)   Mining or extraction of minerals, sand, topsoil, gravel or other
aggregates, including equipment, buildings or structures for screening,
crushing, mixing, washing or storage, except that this shall not prohibit
earthwork related to site development;
      (4)   Cement block manufacture;
      (5)   Ready mix concrete or asphalt plants;
      (6)   Vehicle storage pounds or facilities, except for aviation
equipment;
      (7)   Drive-in theaters;
      (8)   Junk yards and vehicle wrecking yards;
      (9)   Stone and gravel quarries, including crushing, grading, washing and
loading equipment and structures;
      (10)   Sanitary landfill;
      (11)   Slaughtering of livestock, poultry and the like;
      (12)   Any uses listed under the M-2 classifications that is not allowed
under the M-1 designation or otherwise listed as a prohibited use;
      (13)   Roadside agricultural product display and stands larger than 600
square feet in size, stands not located on a lot which includes an agricultural
use or stands displaying for sale live animals; and
      (14)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section as permitted, but
are closely similar thereto provided those uses are not explicitly listed as
permitted uses.
   (C)   Site and structure requirements.
      (1)   District size. The minimum size of the AD-1 District shall be 162
acres.
      (2)   Lot definition. For the purposes of this section, a LOT shall be
defined as a subdivided or platted lot, the area of a large, unsubdivided,
unplatted parcel leased as an individual lot, a parcel adjacent to a public
street or roadway or any combination thereof. For the purposes of this section,
the boundaries of leased lots shall be treated in the same manner as the
boundaries of a subdivided, platted lot of record. For the purposes of this
section, any lot line adjacent to a public or private street or roadway shall
be considered a front lot line.
      (3)   Lot coverage. Lot coverage is not applicable.
      (4)   Building height. As regulated by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) for airports.
      (5)   Individual lot size and dimensions.
         (a)   Any lot adjacent to a public street of roadway shall have a
minimum size of 10,000 square feet.
         (b)   Any lot adjacent to a public street or roadway shall have a
minimum lot width of 50 feet as measured at the front property line as defined
by this chapter.
         (c)   Any lot adjacent to a public street or roadway shall have a
minimum lot depth of 100 feet as measured from the front property line as
defined by this chapter.
         (d)   Lot size and dimensional requirements shall not apply to any lot
not adjacent to a public street or roadway.
      (6)   Yards.
         (a)   Any structure on any lot which is adjacent to a public street or
roadway shall be setback 50 feet from the property line adjacent to or parallel
to that street.
         (b)   The distance between all structures on all lots within the
district shall be as per or in accordance with applicable building and fire
codes.
         (c)   No specific yard requirements shall apply to structures on lots
which are not adjacent to a public street or roadway.
         (d)   The minimum transitional yard requirements for all structures
shall be not less than those specified below.
            1.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line
in an adjacent residential district, a yard shall be provided along such side
lot line. Such yard shall be twice the dimension of the minimum side yard which
is required for a residential use on the adjacent residential lot.
            2.   Where a rear lot line coincides with side lot line in an
adjacent residential district, a yard shall be provided along such side lot
line. Such yard shall be twice the dimension of the minimum side yard which is
required for a residential lot.
            3.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line in an
adjacent residential district, a yard shall be provided along such a rear lot
line. Such yard shall be not less than 40 feet in depth.
      (7)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.). Floor area ratio (F.A.R.) is not
applicable.
   (D)   Special provisions.
      (1)   Enclosed buildings. All non-aviation business, servicing,
processing and the like shall be conducted and take place within completely
enclosed buildings except roadside agricultural product sales and display
stands and off-street parking.
      (2)   Principal buildings. For the purposes of this section, more than
one principal building shall be allowed on one lot.
      (3)   Signage. Signs erected on property or on structures on lots
adjacent to or abutting a public street shall be regulated as per §§
157.155 through
157.167.
      (4)   Off-street parking and loading. As required or allowed by §§
157.120 through
157.126 and
157.140 through
157.144.
      (5)   Performance and Development standards. All non-aviation uses and
activities shall conform with
Chapter 156 in its entirety and §§
157.029 through
157.034 and
157.102.
      (6)   Landscaping. Placement of all landscaping shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of this section and traditional landscaping
techniques. Any area on any individual lot within the AD-1 District not used
for construction or vehicular purposes shall be adequately landscaped according
to §§
157.037,
157.102(G) and the following.
         (a)   All applications for building permit requested for new
construction in the AD-1 District must have a previously approved landscape
plan by the Village Planner and Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (b)   The landscaping plan must show all areas which will contain
grass, ground cover, location of all trees, shrubbery and other growth
proposed. All areas designated for landscaping must be completed as soon as
possible after the completion of the building, and no later than six months
from the date of the occupancy permit.
         (c)   Landscaping or planting will not be delayed for a period in
excess of one year after the completion of any building.
         (d)   Certificates of occupancy may not be issued prior to the time
the landscaping requirements are completed. If so issued, certificates of
occupancy shall then state: “Landscaping not approved, approval required within
six months of the date of this certificate.”
         (e)   Minor revisions from the landscaping plan may be made without
obtaining prior approval. Amounts and location of land set aside for
landscaping may not be reduced.
         (f)   The exterior storage of materials and inventory, where permitted
by the Planning and Zoning Commission, shall be effectively screened from view
from any district boundary line and right-of-way. Landscaping may consist of
live or decorative plantings or fencing, and must be approved by the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
         (g)   Where the AD-1 District abuts or is across the street from a
residential district, adequate landscape screening shall be provided, as
determined by the Village Planner, recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (7)   Ingress and egress. Ingress/egress to any lot off of or to any
public street shall be subject to §
157.024 and the following:
         (a)   Access is limited to not more than two combined ingress/egress
points, or as may be recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
approved by the Village Board of Trustees;
         (b)   Minimum width to be 30 feet at property line. Maximum width to
be 75 feet at property line, or as may be recommended by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and approved by the Village Board of Trustees;
         (c)   Location to be approved by the Village Engineer, Village Planner
and/or as directed by the village;
         (d)   Details of design and construction shall meet all village
requirements; and
         (e)   Entrance curbs and storm drainage provisions shall be required
on all street frontages, and shall meet with the approval of the Village
Engineer and the standard specifications of the village.
      (8)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage related to buildings or uses
adjacent to or abutting any public street shall be subject to §
157.102(F) and the following:
         (a)   All outdoor storage facilities for the building and accessory
uses and products shall be enclosed by an architecturally pleasing fence, wall
or planting materials adequate to conceal the facilities from adjacent
properties and the public street right-of-way; and
         (b)   Outdoor storage shall be included and shown within the required
landscape plan.
      (9)   General regulations. Sections
157.021 through
157.042 shall only apply to a parcel or parcels adjacent to, abutting or
fronting on a public street.
      (10)   Inconsistent regulations. In the event of inconsistencies between
the regulations of this district and other codes of the village, the
regulations of this district shall apply.
      (11)   Land use changes.
         (a)   Upon the discontinuance of any “permitted or special use,” the
new use must make application to the village to have said site and landscape
plans reviewed by the village staff, Planning and Zoning Commission and Village
President and Board of Trustees; and
         (b)   Documentation regarding use and bulk, lot coverage, street
access, parking requirements, accessory uses and landscaping all need to be
submitted to the village for review and approval by the Village Planner,
Planning and Zoning Commission and Village President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 159.091) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.108 AD-2 AIRPORT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The AD-2 District is intended as a designation assigned to areas
adjacent and related to land zoned AD-1, reliever category airport facilities
and AD-1 Districts which include a reliever category airport by allowing mixed
land uses, flexible, yet orderly development; to protect and promote public
safety, comfort, convenience and the general public welfare; and to protect and
enhance the economic value of parcels the district includes.
      (2)   These general purposes include the following specific objectives:
         (a)   Promotion of the most desirable use of land in conformance with
an FAA approved airport site plan;
         (b)   Promotion of the economic viability and operational value of the
airport located within the district; and
         (c)   Encouragement of the development of the airport within the
district as an entity which will benefit transportation and economic
development on a local and regional basis.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All the uses listed or allowed as either permitted or special uses
or accessory uses under the A-1, P-1, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, M-R, M-1 and AD-
1 Districts shall be permitted uses in the AD-2 District, except personal
communication facilities which shall be a special use in the AD-2 District and
in accordance with §§
157.062(N) and
157.226, unless the personal communication facility is located on village-owned
property and in which case it shall be a permitted use;
      (2)   Residential uses, but only in conjunction with and on the same lot
as an agricultural use or as allowed by applicable regulations of the
aforementioned zoning districts;
      (3)   The construction and operation of runways, but only for the ground
movement or transportation of aircraft;
      (4)   Lot areas and widths for public utility of governmental uses shall
be as required by this section and not as recommended by the Planning and
Zoning Commission or Village Board, respectively;
      (5)   Bars, taverns, cocktail lounges and package liquor stores when
operated as an ancillary use to restaurants, hotels, motels, clubs and events
sanctioned or sponsored by a governmental or educational jurisdiction;
      (6)   Public and community utility service uses; and
      (7)   Use not explicitly enumerated in this section as permitted uses,
but are closely similar thereto provided those uses are not explicitly listed
as prohibited uses, notwithstanding §
157.038.
   (C)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Residential uses which are not in conjunction with or on the same
lot as an agricultural use and residential uses which are not established as
applicable regulations of any commercial or industrial district or use;
      (2)   Public or private garbage incinerators;
      (3)   Mining or extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, topsoil or other
aggregates, including equipment, buildings or structures for screening,
crushing, mixing, washing or storage except that this shall not prohibit the
earthwork related to site development;
      (4)   The construction and operation of runways except only for the
ground movement or transportation of aircraft;
      (5)   Airports;
      (6)   Roadside agricultural product display and sale stands larger than
600 square feet in size, stands not located on a lot which includes an
agricultural use or stands displaying for sale live animals;
      (7)   Automobile racetracks, raceways and speedways;
      (8)   Bars, taverns, cocktail lounges and packaged liquor stores which
are not operated as an ancillary use to restaurants, hotels, motels, clubs and
events sanctioned or sponsored by a governmental or educational jurisdiction;
      (9)   Cement block manufacture;
      (10)   Ready mix concrete or asphalt plants;
      (11)   Vehicle storage pounds or facilities;
      (12)   Drive-in theaters;
      (13)   Junk yards and vehicle wrecking yards;
      (14)   Stone and gravel quarries, including crushing, grading, washing
and loading equipment and structures;
      (15)   Sanitary landfill;
      (16)   Slaughtering of livestock, poultry and the like;
      (17)   Any use listed under the M-2 classification which is not
specifically listed as a permitted use under division (B) hereof, except those
allowed under the M-1 designation and except as provided by division (B)(7)
above;
      (18)   Any use listed under the AD-1 classification which is not
specifically listed as a permitted use, under division (B) above, and except as
provided by division (B)(7) above; and
      (19)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section but are closely
similar thereto provided those uses are not explicitly listed as permitted
uses.
   (D)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures, as defined by this chapter, and
including individual sewage disposal, water and sewer units or systems as
regulated by the village, but subject to the following regulations:
         (a)   Shall be operated and maintained under the same ownership and
located on the same lot as the permitted or principal use to which it is
accessory;
         (b)   Shall be located in the rear or side yard areas only;
         (c)   Shall be located not less than ten feet from a lot line of
adjoining lots, except on corner lots, not nearer to the rear lot line than the
distance of the required side yard for the lot adjoining the rear lot line and
not nearer to the side street line than the distance required for a side yard
adjoining a street, or in the case of a reverse corner lot, the required front
yard on the lot adjoining the rear lot line; and on through lots that do not
have a rear lot line adjoining a no access strip, not nearer to the rear lot
line adjoining a street than the distance required for a front yard. The
aforementioned distances shall be doubled when adjacent to a residentially
zoned property;
         (d)   Shall be no more than one story in height, except utility towers
which may be of a height as approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
         (e)   Shall not be constructed or occupied prior to the construction
and occupation of the lot’s principal structure, respectively; and
         (f)   Shall cover no more than 50% of the side or rear yard area.
      (2)   Roadside stands used for the display and sale of any agricultural
products, but subject to the following regulations:
         (a)   Shall be no more than 600 square feet in size;
         (b)   Shall not be used for the display or sale of live animals;
         (c)   Shall be allowed in any yard area;
         (d)   Shall be no closer than ten feet to any side or rear property
line and no closer than 25 feet to any front property line; except on corner
lots, not nearer to the rear lot line than the distance of the required side
yard for the lot adjoining the rear lot line and not nearer to the side street
line than the distance required for a side yard adjoining a street; or in the
case of a reverse corner lot, the required front yard on the lot adjoining the
rear lot line; and on a through lot that does not have a rear lot line
adjoining a no access strip, not nearer to the rear lot line adjoining a street
than the distance required for a front yard. The aforementioned distances shall
be doubled when adjacent to a residentially zoned property;
         (e)   Shall be no more than 25 feet in height;
         (f)   Shall only be located on a lot which includes an agricultural
use; and
         (g)   Shall cover no more than 50% of any rear, side or front yard
area.
      (3)   Agricultural buildings and structures, but subject to the following
regulations:
         (a)   Shall be allowed in rear and side yard areas only;
         (b)   Shall be no closer than ten feet to any property line, except on
corner lots, not nearer to the rear lot line than the distance of the required
side yard for the lot adjoining the rear lot line and not nearer to the side
street line than the distance required for a side yard adjoining a street, or
in the case of a reverse corner lot, the required front yard on the lot
adjoining the rear lot line; and on through lots that do not have a rear lot
line adjoining a street than the distance required for a front yard. The
aforementioned distances shall be doubled when adjacent to a residentially
zoned property;
         (c)   Shall be no more than one story in height;
         (d)   Shall only be located on lots which include an agricultural use;
and
         (e)   Shall cover no more than 50% of the rear or side yard area.
   (E)   Site and structural requirements.
      (1)   District size. An AD-2 District shall be no less than 20 acres in
size.
      (2)   Lot definition. For the purposes of this section, a LOT shall be
defined as a subdivided or platted lot, the area of a large, undivided,
unplatted parcel leased as an individual lot, a parcel adjacent to a public
street or roadway or any combination thereof. For the purposes of this section,
any lot line adjacent to a public or private street or roadway shall be
considered a front lot line.
      (3)   Individual lot sizes and dimensions.
         (a)   Individual lots within the AD-2 District shall have a minimum
area or 10,000 square feet.
         (b)   Individual lots within the AD-2 District shall have a minimum
lot width of 30 feet as measured at the front property line as defined by this
chapter.
         (c)   Individual lots within the AD-2 District shall have a minimum
depth of 100 feet as measured from any front lot line as defined by this
chapter.
      (4)   Yards.
         (a)   Individual lots within the AD-2 District shall have the
following minimum required yards or setbacks:
            1.   Front yard: 50 feet;
            2.   Rear yard: 20 feet; and
            3.   Side yard: 15 feet.
         (b)   The minimum transitional yard requirements for all principal
structures shall be not less than those specified below.
            1.   Where a side yard lot line coincides with a side or rear lot
line in an adjacent residential district, a yard shall be provided along such
side lot line. Such yard shall be twice the distance of the minimum side yard
required for a residential use on the adjacent residential lot.
            2.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line in an
adjacent residential district, a yard shall be provided along such rear lot
line. Such yard shall be twice the distance of the minimum side yard required
for residential use on the adjacent residential lot.
            3.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line in an
adjacent residential district, a yard shall be provided along such rear lot
line. Such yard shall be not less than 30 feet in depth.
      (5)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage allowed on any individual
lot within the AD-2 District shall be no more than 50%.
      (6)   Floor area ratio. The maximum floor area ratio on any individual
lot within the AD-2 District shall be no more than one.
      (7)   Building height. The maximum height of individual buildings on
individual lot within the AD-2 District shall be subject to regulations imposed
by the FAA as applicable.
   (F)   Special provisions. All business, servicing, processing and the like
shall be conducted and take place within completely enclosed buildings, except
roadside agricultural product sales and display stands and off-street parking
and loading:
      (1)   Signs. As required or allowed by §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading/unloading. As required or allowed by
§§
157.120 through
157.126;
      (3)   Performance standards. As required or allowed by Chapter 156 in its
entirety, §§
157.029 through
157.034 and §
157.102(D) and all applicable building, fire, construction, electrical and
plumbing codes as adopted by the village;
      (4)   Landscaping. Any area on any individual lot within the AD-
2 District not used for construction or vehicular purposes shall be adequately
and attractively landscaped in accordance with plans reviewed by the village
staff. The basis for this review shall be a comparison of said plans to
conformance with the spirit and intent of the regulations listed herein;
      (5)   Ingress and egress. As required or allowed by §§
157.024 and
157.102(I);
      (6)   Outdoor storage.
         (a)   All outdoor storage facilities for the building and accessory
uses and products shall be enclosed by an architecturally pleasing fence, wall
or planting materials adequate to conceal the facilities from adjacent
properties and the public street right-of-way; and
         (b)   Outdoor storage shall be included and shown within the required
landscape plan.
      (7)   General regulations. Sections
157.021 through
157.042 shall only apply to a parcel or parcels adjacent to, abutting or
fronting on a public street;
      (8)   Inconsistent regulations. In the event of inconsistencies between
the regulations of this district and other codes of the village, the
regulations of this district shall apply; and
      (9)   Land use change.
         (a)   Upon the discontinuance of any “permitted or special use,” the
new use must make application to the village to have said site and landscape
plans reviewed by the village staff, Planning and Zoning Commission and Village
President and Board of Trustees.
         (b)   Documentation regarding use and bulk, lot coverage, street
access, parking requirements, accessory uses and landscaping all need to be
submitted to the village for review and approval by the Village Planner,
Planning and Zoning Commission and Village President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 159.092) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.109 UNIVERSITY DISTRICT GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The UD District is intended as a zoning
designation applied to a large individual parcels held under single ownership
or leasehold and which includes a college or university and related ancillary
uses. The UD classification is further designed to allow and encourage the
flexible, yet orderly development of such an area by emphasizing regulations
which buffer and limit the cross-effects of district and adjacent land uses.
This is intended to be achieved by imposing a maximum degree of regulations to
only those district uses adjacent to public rights-of-way and those along and
within the perimeter of the district. Reference to “maximum degree of
regulations” is not intended to override the specific provisions of the UD
District, but simply to point out the existence of specific restrictions
elsewhere in this section.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses include the following:
      (1)   All the uses listed or allowed as either permitted or special uses
or accessory uses under the A-1, P-1, B-1, B-2, B-3, M-R and all residential
zoning districts shall be permitted uses in the UD District, except personal
communications facilities which shall be a special use in the UD District and
in accordance with §§
157.062(N) and
157.226, unless the personal communication facility is located on village-owned
property and in which case it shall be a permitted use;
      (2)   Public or private garbage incinerators receiving or processing
refuse generated within the boundaries of the district;
      (3)   Roadside stands 600 square feet or less in size used for the
display and sale of any agricultural product, except live animals and located
only on lots which include an agricultural use;
      (4)   Lot areas and lot widths for public utility or governmental uses
shall be as required by this section and not as recommended by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and Village Board, respectively;
      (5)   Bars, taverns, cocktail lounges and package liquor stores when
operated as an ancillary use to restaurants, hotels, motels, clubs and events
sanctioned or sponsored by a governmental or educational jurisdiction;
      (6)   The construction and operation of airport runways, but only for the
ground movement or transportation of aircraft;
      (7)   Mobile home parks related to or utilized by a college or
university;
      (8)   Uses designed to store or house aircraft;
      (9)   Uses designed for the servicing, fueling and maintenance of
aircraft;
      (10)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section as permitted, but
are closely similar thereto provided those uses are not explicitly listed as
prohibited uses, notwithstanding §
157.039, uses not specifically permitted by this chapter;
      (11)   Public and community service and utility uses;
      (12)   Weather service stations and/or facilities; and
      (13)   Churches and church-schools, and other places of worship.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. Prohibited uses include the following:
      (1)   Public or private incinerators receiving or processing refuse
generated outside the boundaries of the district;
      (2)   Roadside agricultural product display and sale stands larger than
600 square feet in size, stands not located on a lot which includes an
agricultural use or stands displaying for sale live animals;
      (3)   Automobile racetracks, speedways and raceways;
      (4)   Mining or extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, topsoil or other
aggregates, including equipment, buildings or structures for screening,
crushing, mixing, washing or storage except that this shall not prohibit
earthwork related to site development;
      (5)   Bars, taverns, cocktail lounges and package liquor stores which are
not an ancillary use to restaurants, hotels, motels, clubs and events
sanctioned or sponsored by a governmental or educational jurisdiction;
      (6)   Construction and operation of airport runways, but only for the
ground movement or transportation of aircraft;
      (7)   Railroad classification yards, freight terminals or maintenance
yards or facilities;
      (8)   Mobile home parks not related to or utilized by a college or
university;
      (9)   Cement block manufacture;
      (10)   Ready mix concrete and asphalt plants;
      (11)   Vehicle storage pounds or facilities;
      (12)   Drive-in theaters;
      (13)   Airports;
      (14)   Any use listed under the M-1 classification as a permitted use but
which is not allowed under the M-R District, in which is otherwise listed as a
prohibited uses under the M-R District, except as otherwise provided at
division (B)(10) above;
      (15)   Junk yards and vehicle wrecking yards;
      (16)   Stone and gravel quarries, including crushing, grading, washing
and loading equipment and structures;
      (17)   Sanitary landfill;
      (18)   Slaughtering of livestock, poultry and the like;
      (19)   Any uses listed under the M-1, M-2, AD-1 or AD-2 classifications,
except as provided by division (B)(10) above; and
      (20)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section as permitted, but
are closely similar thereto provided those uses are not explicitly listed as
prohibited uses, notwithstanding §
157.038, uses not specifically permitted by this chapter;
   (D)   Site and structural requirements.
      (1)   Minimum site. Minimum site requirements in a U-D District shall be
that of 30 acres.
      (2)   Individual lots. Individual lot size and dimensions are not
required.
      (3)   Setback requirements.
         (a)   Any structure on the parcel which is adjacent to, abuts or
fronts a public street shall be setback 50 feet from the property line adjacent
or parallel to that street. In addition, all structures within the district
shall be setback from any other structure half the distance of its longest side
and in accordance with any building or fire code requirements, whichever is
greater.
         (b)   The minimum transitional yard requirements for all structures
within the U-D District shall be not less than the following.
            1.   Where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line
in an adjacent residential district, a yard shall be provided along such side
lot line. Such yard shall be twice the dimension of the minimum side or rear
yard required for the residential district.
            2.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side or rear lot line
in an adjacent residential district, a yard shall be provided along such rear
lot line. Such yard shall be twice the dimension of the minimum side or rear
yard required for the residential district.
            3.   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line in an
adjacent residential district, a yard shall be provided along such a rear lot
line. Such yard shall be not less than 40 feet in depth.
      (4)   Lot coverage. Lot coverage is not applicable.
      (5)   Floor area ratio (FAR). The FAR is not applicable.
      (6)   Building height.
         (a)   No building or structure except utility towers or airport
related uses shall exceed a height of 40 feet or as allowed or required by
applicable FAA regulations, whichever is more restrictive.
         (b)   Utility towers shall be no higher than that required or allowed
by applicable FAA regulations.
   (E)   Special provisions. Special provisions include the following:
      (1)   Enclosed buildings. All business, servicing, processing and the
like shall be conducted and take place within completely enclosed building
except roadside agricultural product sales and display stands and off-street
parking and loading;
      (2)   Principal building. For the purposes of this section, more than one
principal building shall be allowed on one lot;
      (3)   Signs. Signs erected on the property, structures or buildings
adjacent to or abutting a public street shall be regulated as per §§
157.155 through
157.167;
      (4)   Off-street parking and loading. As required or allowed by §§
157.120 through
157.126 and
157.140 through
157.144;
      (5)   Performance and development standards. As required or allowed by
Chapter 156 in its entirety, §§
157.029 through
157.034 “performance standards” and all applicable fire, building,
construction, electrical and plumbing codes as adopted by the village;
      (6)   Landscaping. Any area on any individual lot within the UD District
not used for construction or vehicular purposes shall be adequately and
attractively landscaped in accordance with plans prepared and submitted by the
lot occupant. The landscape design may incorporate native plant materials and
existing site amenities or new forms and vistas may be introduced by the use of
plant materials, earth sculptures and/or structures. Said plans will require
review by the village staff, recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approval from the Village Board of Trustees. The basis for this
review shall be a comparison of said plans to conformance with the spirit and
intent of the regulations listed herein. Placement of all landscaping shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of this section and traditional
landscaping techniques.
         (a)   All building permit applications requested for new construction
in the U-D District must have a previously approved landscape plan by the
Village Planner, Planning and Zoning Commission and Village Board of Trustees;
         (b)   The landscaping plan must show all areas which will contain
grass, ground cover, location of all trees, shrubbery and other growth
proposed. All areas designated for landscaping must be completed as soon as
possible after the completion of the building, and no later than six months
from the date of the occupancy permit;
         (c)   Landscaping or planting will not be delayed for a period in
excess of one year after the completion of any building;
         (d)   Certificates of occupancy may not be issued prior to the time
the landscaping requirements are completed. If so issued, certificates of
occupancy shall then state: “Landscaping not approved, approval required within
six months of the date of this certificate;”
         (e)   Minor revisions from the landscaping plan may be made without
obtaining prior approval. Amounts and location of land set aside for
landscaping may not be reduced;
         (f)   The exterior storage of materials and inventory, where permitted
by the Planning and Zoning Commission, shall be effectively screened from view
from any district boundary line and right-of-way. Landscaping may consist of
live or decorative plantings or fencing, and must be approved by the Planning
and Zoning Commission; and
         (g)   Where the U-D District abuts or is across the street from a
residential district, adequate landscape screening shall be provided, as
determined by the Village Planner, recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (7)   Ingress/egress. Ingress and egress to any lot off of or to any
public street shall be subject to §§
157.024 and
157.102(I) and the following:
         (a)   Access is limited to not more than two combined ingress/egress
points;
         (b)   Minimum width to be 40 feet at property line. Maximum width to
be 75 feet at property line, or as may be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission;
         (c)   Location to be approved by the Village Engineer, Village Planner
and/or as directed by the village;
         (d)   Details of design and construction shall meet all village
requirements; and
         (e)   Entrance curbs and storm drainage provisions shall be required
on all street frontages, and shall meet with the approval of the Village
Engineer and the standard specifications of the village.
      (8)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage related to buildings or uses
adjacent to or abutting any public street shall be subject to §
157.102(F) and the following:
         (a)   All outdoor storage facilities for the building and accessory
uses and products shall be enclosed by an architecturally pleasing fence, wall
or planting materials adequate to conceal the facilities from adjacent
properties and the public street right-of-way; and
         (b)   Outdoor storage shall be included and shown within the required
landscape plan.
      (9)   General regulations. Sections
157.021 through
157.042 shall only apply to a parcel or parcels adjacent to, abutting or
fronting on a public street;
      (10)   Inconsistent regulations. In the event of inconsistencies between
the regulations of this district and other codes of the village, the
regulations of this district shall apply; and
      (11)   Land use change.
         (a)   Upon the discontinuance of any “permitted or special use,” the
new use must make application to the village to have said site and landscape
plans reviewed by the village staff, Planning and Zoning Commission and Village
President and Board of Trustees; and
         (b)   Documentation regarding use and bulk, lot coverage, street
access, parking requirements, accessory uses and landscaping all need to be
submitted to the village for review and approval by the Village Planner,
Planning and Zoning Commission and Village President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 159.100) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007; Ord. 18-1482, passed 5-16-2018) Penalty, see §
157.999
**** OFF-STREET PARKING ****
§ 157.120 OFF-STREET PARKING GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of this section is to alleviate or
prevent congestion of the public roads, and so promote the safety and welfare
of the public by establishing minimum requirements for the off-street parking
of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which property is placed.
   (B)   Scope. The off-street parking provisions of this chapter shall apply
as follows.
      (1)   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date of this chapter, accessory off-street
parking facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the
district in which the buildings or uses are located. However, where a building
permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this chapter, and
provided that construction is begun within one year of the effective date and
diligently prosecuted to completion, off-street parking, loading and unloading
facilities as required herein need not be provided.
      (2)   When the intensity of the use of any building, structures or
premises shall be increased through addition of dwelling units, gross floor
area seating capacity or other units of measurement specified herein for
required off-street parking facilities the off-street parking as required
herein shall be provided for the increase in intensity of the land use. No
building or structure lawfully erected or use lawfully established prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall be required to provide the additional off-
street parking facilities unless and until the aggregate increase in units of
measurement shall equal not less than 15% of the units of measurement existing
on the effective date of this chapter, in which event off-street parking
facilities as required herein shall be provided for the total increases.
      (3)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall
hereafter be changed to a new use, off-street parking facilities shall be
provided as required for the new use. However, if the building or structure was
erected prior to the effective date of this chapter, additional off-street
parking facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which requirements for
the new use would exceed those for the existing use of the latter were subject
to the parking and loading provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Existing off-street parking facilities. Accessory off-street parking
facilities which are located on the same lot as the building or use served and
which were in existence on the effective date of this chapter or were provided
voluntarily after the effective date shall not hereafter be reduced below, or
if already less than, shall not further be reduced below, the requirements of
this chapter for a similar new building or use.
   (D)   Voluntary establishment. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prevent the voluntary establishment of off-street parking facilities to serve
any existing use of land or buildings provided that all regulations herein
governing the location, design, improvement and operation of the facilities are
adhered to.
   (E)   Damage or destruction. For any conforming or legally nonconforming
building or use, as restricted by §§
157.180 through
157.187, which is in existence on the effective date of this chapter; which
subsequently thereto is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or
other cause; and which is reconstructed, re-established or repaired, off-street
parking facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of the damage or
destruction shall be restored or continued in operation. However, in no case
shall it be necessary to restore or maintain off-street parking facilities in
excess of those required by this chapter for equivalent new uses in
construction.
   (F)   Control of off-site facilities. Where required off-street parking
facilities are provided on land other than the zoning lot on which the building
or use served by the facilities is located, they shall be and remain in the
same possession or ownership as the zoning lot occupied by the building or use
to which the off-street parking facilities are necessary. No such off-site
parking facilities shall be authorized and no zoning certificate shall be
issued where the plans call for off-site parking facilities other than on the
same zoning lot until and unless the Planning and Zoning Commission has
reviewed the plans and heard the applicant and made findings that the common
ownership or possession of the zoning lot and the site of the parking
facilities are reasonably certain to continued an that the off-street parking
facilities will be maintained at all times during the life of the proposed use
or building.
   (G)   Submission of plot plan. Any application for a building permit, or for
a certificate of occupancy where no building permit is required, shall include
therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and showing dimensions; any off-street
parking facilities to be provided shall be in compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 159.105)
§ 157.121 USE OF FACILITIES.
   Off-street parking facilities accessory to residential use and development
in any residential district in accordance with the requirements of this section
shall be used solely for the parking of vehicles controlled by the occupants of
the dwelling structures to which the facilities are necessary, or by guests of
the occupants of the structure, and as regulated in §
157.026.
(Prior Code, § 159.106) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.122 JOINT USE OF FACILITIES.
   Off-street parking facilities for different buildings, structures or uses,
or for mixed uses, may be provided collectively in any zoning district in which
separate parking facilities for each constituent use would be permitted;
provided that the total number of spaces so located together shall not be less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each use. Developer, builder and/
or development shall provided a recorded document for cross access easements
when property or properties have more than one tenant/occupant to the property
for parking lot usage by patrons, employees and the like.
(Prior Code, § 159.107) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.123 COMPUTATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Fractional space. When a determination of the number of off-street
parking spaces required by this chapter results in a requirement of a
fractional space, any fraction of one-half or less may be disregarded, while a
fraction in excess of one-half shall be counted as one parking space.
   (B)   Accessory parking spaces. The total number of accessory parking spaces
provided for one-family, two-family or multiple-family dwellings shall not
exceed that required by this chapter for such or for any equivalent new use by
more than 50% or four spaces, whichever number is greater.
   (C)   Size and access (off-street parking).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4689.png]
 
      (1)   Size. A required off-street parking space in all districts shall be
at least nine feet six inches in width (WP) and at least 18 feet in length,
exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, curbs, columns, office or work
areas. The width and length of all parking spaces adjacent to curb and gutter
shall be measured from the edge of pavement. All spaces shall have a minimum
vertical clearance of at least seven feet. Aisles widths between vehicular
parking spaces shall be not less than the following:
         (a)   Forty-five degree angle with a 16 feet six inch stall length
(SL), 15 foot aisle width (AW) and 48 feet wall to wall (W) measured to and
from the edge of pavement, accommodating one-way aisle travel;
         (b)   Sixty degree angle with 18 foot stall length (SL), 18 foot aisle
width (AW) and 54 foot wall to wall (W) measured to and from edge of pavement,
accommodating one-way aisle travel;
         (c)   Sixty degree angle with 18 foot stall length (SL), 26 foot aisle
width (AW) and 62 foot wall to wall (W) measured to and from edge of pavement,
accommodating two-way aisle travel; and
         (d)   Ninety degree angle with 18 foot stall length (SL), 26 foot
aisle width (AW) and 62 foot wall to wall (W) measured to and from edge of
pavement, accommodating two-way aisle travel.
      (2)   Access. Each required off-street parking space shall open directly
on an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to the parking space, unless the parking
facilities are serviced by a parking attendant. All off-street parking
facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a
street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic movements.
No driveway across public property nor curb cut shall exceed a width of 25
feet, unless otherwise allowed within this chapter.
      (3)   Measurement of space. When determination of the number of required
off-street parking spaces results in a requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction up to and including one-half shall be disregarded; and any fraction
over one-half shall be interpreted as one parking space.
   (D)   Design and maintenance.
      (1)   Open and enclosed parking spaces. Accessory parking spaces located
on the same lot as occupied by the use served may be open to the sky or
enclosed in a building. Accessory parking spaces located in a residential
district elsewhere than on the same lot occupied by the use served shall be
open to the sky except when otherwise allowed as a special use.
      (2)   Surfacing. All open off-street parking areas, including driveways
and aisles, shall be improved with a compacted stone base, not less than eight
inches thick, surfaced with not less than three inches of compacted asphalt or
concrete as approved by the village.
      (3)   Curbing. All parking lots shall have complete non-mountable curbing
system at the perimeter of the lots. This system shall be designed to retain
and direct stormwater on-site.
      (4)   Screening and landscaping. All applications for a building permits
requested for new construction in multi-family residential, commercial and
manufacturing districts shall provide a landscaping plan which shall be
submitted to the Village Planner for review and subject to approval by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and Village Board of Trustees. All open
automobile parking areas containing more than four parking spaces shall be
effectively screened on each side adjoining or fronting on any property
situated in a residential district or any institutional premises by a wall,
fence or densely planted compact hedge not less than five feet nor more than
seven feet in height. The required screening shall conform with the front and
side yard setback requirements of the district in which the parking is located.
Landscaping requirements under the business/commercial section of this chapter
shall also apply where required.
      (5)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be directed away from any residential properties and public highways in
such a way as not to create a nuisance.
      (6)   Signage. Directional and regulatory signs only are permitted on
parking areas.
      (7)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall
be permitted in conjunction with accessory off-street parking facilities
provided in a residential district. The sale of gasoline and motor oil in
conjunction with accessory off-street parking facilities is not permitted in
any residential district.
      (8)   Required setbacks. Except for otherwise provided for herein this
chapter or within a specific zoning district, no parking space nor portion
thereof shall be established within the front yard setback of any business,
commercial, industrial, manufacturing, airport or university district. Further,
any decorative or landscaping wall, fence or hedge developed around any parking
area shall be subject to the setback requirements of this chapter in the same
manner as the parking lot.
   (E)   Location of off-street parking facilities. Off-street parking spaces
may be located in any yards, except required front yards. The location of off-
street parking spaces in relation to the use served shall be as prescribed
hereinafter. All distances specified shall be within walking distance between
the parking spaces and a main entrance to the use served.
      (1)   For uses in a residential district, parking spaces accessory to
dwellings shall be located on the same zoning lot as the use served. Spaces
accessory to uses other than dwellings may be located on a lot adjacent to, or
directly across the street or alley from the lot occupied by the use served,
but in no case at a distance in excess of 300 feet from such use.
      (2)   For apartments, condominiums or efficiency units containing four or
more dwelling units on the same lot or parcel of land as the building they are
required to serve, or on a separate lot or parcel of land not more than 300
feet from the nearest entrance to the main building being served; provided the
lot or parcel of land selected for the parking facilities is located in a
apartment district or a less restricted district.
      (3)   For boarding house, clubs, congregate care, convalescent homes,
dormitories, fraternity, halfway house, health club, hospitals, lodge, lodging
house, nursing home, orphanages, rooming house, sanitariums, sorority and for
other similar uses, the off-street parking facilities required shall be on the
same lot or parcel of land as the main building or buildings being served, or
upon properties contiguous to the zoning lot upon which is located the building
or buildings they are intended to serve.
      (4)   For uses in business and industrial/ manufacturing districts, all
required parking spaces shall be within 1,000 feet of the use served, except
for spaces accessory to dwelling units (not including hotels) which shall be
within 300 feet of the use served. However, no parking spaces accessory to a
use in a business or manufacturing district shall be located in a residential
district, unless recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission in
accordance with §
157.222 to the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 159.108) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0599, passed
12-19-2007; Ord. 08-0655, passed 5-21-2008) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.124 SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   For the following uses, accessory off-street parking spaces shall be
provided as required herein. Parking spaces required on an employee basis shall
be based on the maximum number of employees on duty or residing, or both, on
the premises at any one time.
   (A)   Floor area. The term FLOOR AREA of a building or structure shall mean
the gross floor area of a building or structure as measured from interior wall
to interior wall. It is the purpose of this section to measure the floor area
which will contribute to the parking demand of either employees or customers.
Therefore, FLOOR AREA, for the purposes of this section, shall not include any
area used for the following uses:
      (1)   Hallways enclosed on two sides by permanent walls;
      (2)   Elevator, escalator or stairwells;
      (3)   Restroom facilities;
      (4)   Dressing, fitting or alteration rooms;
      (5)   Employee cafeteria facilities;
      (6)   Employee lounge areas used as work areas;
      (7)   Special employee meeting rooms not utilized by employees as general
work areas during the normal course of business; and
      (8)   Any other areas accessory to the principal use of a building and
not used as an employee work area.
   (B)   Residential uses. Residential uses, as follows:
      (1)   One-family dwellings and two-family (duplex) dwellings. Two parking
spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings. One and one-half parking spaces for a
one bedroom; two parking spaces for a two bedroom; and two and one-half spaces
for a three bedroom, plus 5% of the total for visitor and required number of
handicapped spaces as outlined herein;
      (3)   One and two bedroom dwelling units. For one and two bedroom
dwelling units on the second floor of a building located in a B-1, B-2 or B-
3 District, when the first floor is occupied for business uses, one and one-
half parking spaces per dwelling unit shall be provided;
      (4)   Hotels and full-service hotels. One parking space shall be provided
for each dwelling unit or lodging room, plus such additional space as deemed
necessary because of any supplementary parking generative activities such as
bars, ballrooms, dining rooms, night club facilities, banquet rooms and the
like;
      (5)   Boarding houses and rooming houses. One parking space shall be
provided for each lodging room, plus one space for the owner or manager on
premises;
      (6)   Private clubs and lodges (with sleeping facilities for guests). One
parking space shall be provided for each lodging room, plus parking spaces
equal in number to 10% of the capacity in persons (exclusive of the lodging
room capacity) of the club or lodge;
      (7)   Private clubs and lodges (without sleeping facilities for guests).
Parking spaces equal in number to 20% of the capacity in persons shall be
provided, but not less than one parking space for each 200 square feet of floor
area used for assembly; and
      (8)   For dormitories, fraternities and sororities. One parking space for
each five active members, plus one additional space for each employee.
   (C)   Business/commercial/retail and service uses. Business/commercial/
retail and service uses, as follows:
      (1)   Automobile laundry. Ten parking/stacking spaces shall be provided
for each wash rack, plus one space for each employee;
      (2)   Barber shops, beauty shops/parlors. Three parking spaces for the
first station, chair or operator, plus two paces for each additional station,
chair or operator;
      (3)   Bowling alleys. Five parking space shall be provided for each
alley, plus one parking space for each 300 feet of floor area devoted for
affiliated uses, bars, restaurants and the like;
      (4)   Convenience food stores. One parking space shall be provided for
each 300 square feet of floor area;
      (5)   Establishments handling the sale and consumption of any type of
beverage and/or food on the premises. One parking space shall be provided for
each 50 square feet of floor area accommodating customers;
      (6)   Furniture and appliance stores, household equipment or furniture
repair shops. One parking space shall be provided for each 600 square feet of
floor area;
      (7)   Full line grocery store, drug stores. One parking space shall be
provided for each 200 square feet of floor area;
      (8)   Gas station, full-serve (see also gas station, self-serve). One
space for every employee on the maximum shift, plus one space for each 250
square feet of floor area and two spaces for each repair bay, which the repair
bay may not be counted towards the credit of meeting the parking requirements.
In no instance shall a required parking space or its maneuvering area conflict
with vehicles being fueled or awaiting fuel;
      (9)   Gas station, self-serve only. One space for every employee on the
maximum shift, plus one space for each 250 square feet of floor area. In no
instance shall a required parking space or its maneuvering area conflict with
vehicles being fueled or awaiting fuel;
      (10)   Gas station, self-serve with mini-mart. One and one-half space for
each fuel nozzle. In no instance shall a required parking space or its
maneuvering area conflict with vehicles being fueled or awaiting fuel;
      (11)   Motor vehicle sales and equipment/ machinery sales. One parking
space shall be provided for each 300 square feet of floor area, inclusive of
showrooms, offices, parts department and customer waiting areas. Parking spaces
required for this use must be clearly identified and marked to be for customer,
service and employee parking only and shall not be used for parking of any
other vehicles;
      (12)   Motor vehicle repair/service. Five parking spaces shall be
provided for the first repair/service bay, plus two parking spaces for each
additional repair/service bay. Parking spaces required for this use must be
clearly identified and marked to be for customer, service and employee parking
only and shall not be used for parking of any other vehicles;
      (13)   Retail centers. Four parking spaces shall be provided for each
1,000 square feet of customer service area, excluding storage space. Retail
stores: one parking space shall be provided for each 300 square feet of
customer service area, excluding storage space;
      (14)   Theaters (indoor). One parking space shall be provided for each 3-
1/2 seats up to 500 seats, plus one parking space for each four seats above 500
seats. (Outdoor) reservoir space equal to 10% of the capacity; and
      (15)   Undertaking establishments, funeral parlors. Twelve parking spaces
shall be provided for each chapel or parlor, plus one parking space for each
funeral vehicle kept on the premises and one parking space for each employee.
   (D)   Offices (business or professional). Offices (business or professional)
as follows:
      (1)   Offices (business, professional or governmental). One parking space
for each 250 square feet of floor area on the ground, first or single floor
area; one parking space for each 400 square feet of occupied floor space below
the ground or first floor area; and one parking space for each 300 square feet
of floor space above the ground or first floor area;
      (2)   Banks/savings institutions. One parking space for each 200 square
feet of ground, first or single floor area; one parking space for each 400
square feet of occupied floor space below the ground or first floor area; and
one parking space for each 300 square feet of floor space above the ground or
first floor area; provided, however, that when a drive-through window or
windows are provided to serve patrons, customers or clients calling for service
at such windows in motor vehicles, then the parking space requirements shall be
reduced as follows (credit against the aforementioned criteria):
         (a)   For each such drive-through window deduct four spaces;
         (b)   For each 200 square feet of area set aside for motor vehicles
waiting in line for service at a drive-through window deduct one space; and
         (c)   For each drive-through cash station deduct one space.
      (3)   Medical or dental office. For medical or dental office uses having
floor area space as follows:
         (a)   Less than 1,000 square feet of floor area, 1.75 spaces per 100
square feet of floor area;
         (b)   At least 1,000 square feet of floor area but less than 5,000
square feet of floor area, 1.35 spaces per 100 square feet of floor area;
         (c)   At least 5,000 square feet of floor area but less than 15,000
square feet of floor area, 0.85 spaces per 100 square feet of such floor area;
or
         (d)   At least 15,000 square feet of floor area, 0.75 spaces per 100
square feet of floor area.
   (E)   Wholesale establishments, not including warehouses and storage
buildings other than accessory. One parking space shall be provided for each
600 square feet of floor area.
   (F)   Establishments manufacturing or industrial engaged in the following:
production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing or repair of materials,
goods or products. One parking spaces shall be provided for each shift
employee, plus one space for each vehicle used in the conduct of the
enterprise.
   (G)   Warehouse and storage buildings. One parking spaces shall be provided
for each employee; plus one space for each vehicle used in the conduct of the
enterprise.
   (H)   Educational buildings, public buildings and community service
buildings. Educational buildings, public buildings and community service
buildings as follows:
      (1)   Churches. One space per four seats or one space per each 18 inches
of bench length (if no seating, one space per 60 square feet of sanctuary
space), plus spaces required for uses other than the conduct of worship
services.
      (2)   Nursery, elementary and middle schools. One parking space for each
employee, plus one space for each 100 square feet of floor area dedicated to
administrative offices to be reserved for visitor parking.
      (3)   High schools. Eight parking spaces for each classroom; plus one
space for employee, plus one space for each 100 square feet of floor area
dedicated to administrative offices to be reserved for visitor parking.
      (4)   Colleges, universities, business, professional and trade schools.
One parking space shall be provided for each employee, plus one space shall be
provided for each four students based on the maximum number of students
attending classes on the premises at any one time during any 24-hour period.
      (5)   Arenas, auditoriums, banquet halls/facilities, convention halls,
dance halls, exhibition halls, skating rinks and other similar places of
assembly. Parking spaces equal in number to 33% of the maximum capacity in
persons shall be provided.
      (6)   Health centers, governmentally operated. Three parking spaces shall
be provided for each staff member and visiting doctor.
      (7)   Health centers/clubs. One parking space shall be provided for 25%
of the membership or the maximum occupancy of the building, whichever is
greater.
      (8)   Hospitals. One parking space shall be provided for each two
hospital beds, plus one parking space for each two employees (other than staff
doctors), plus one parking space for each doctor assigned to the staff.
      (9)   Institutions for the care of the insane and feebleminded. One
parking space shall be provided for each employee, plus one parking space for
each four patients/rooms on the premises.
      (10)   Libraries, art galleries and museums, public. Four parking spaces
shall be provided for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.
      (11)   Municipal or privately-owned recreational buildings or community
centers. One parking space shall be provided for each one employee; plus one
parking space shall be provided for each 250 square feet of floor area; plus
five parking spaces for each baseball, football, soccer or similar fields
provided.
      (12)   Public utility and public service uses. One parking space shall be
provided for each one employee; plus one parking space shall be provided for
each vehicle used in the conduct of the public entity; plus two parking spaces
shall be provided for use by the general public, if applicable, as determined
by the Zoning Administrator.
      (13)   Rest homes or nursing homes. One parking space shall be provide
for each four beds; plus one parking space for each one employee; and one
parking space for each doctor assigned to the staff.
      (14)   Sanitariums, convalescent homes or institutions for the aged or
for children. One parking space shall be provided for each four beds; plus one
parking space for each two employees (other than staff doctors); plus one
parking space for each doctors assigned to the staff.
      (15)   Other uses. For the following uses, parking spaces shall be
provided in adequate number, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, to
serve persons employed or residing on the premises as well as the visiting
public:
         (a)   Airports or aircraft landing fields and heliports;
         (b)   Convents and monasteries;
         (c)   Crematories and mausoleums;
         (d)   Outdoor amusement establishments, fairgrounds, permanent
carnivals, kiddie parks and other similar amusement centers;
         (e)   Penal and correctional institutions;
         (f)   Rectories and parish house; and
         (g)   Swimming pools.
(Prior Code, § 159.109) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0599, passed
12-19-2007; Ord. 12-0972, passed 4-4-2012) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.125 MIXED LAND USES AND OTHER LAND USES.
   (A)   When two or more uses are located on the same zoning lot or within the
same building, parking spaces equal in number to the sum of the separate
requirements for each such use shall be provided. No parking space or portion
thereof shall serve as a required space for more than one use unless otherwise
authorized by the Planning and Zoning Commission in accordance with §
157.208.
   (B)   For uses not listed heretofore in this schedule of parking
requirements, parking spaces shall be provided on the same basis as required
for the most similar listed use, or as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 159.110) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.126 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   Parking places for persons with disabilities are as follows.
   (A)   The number of parking spaces planned for drivers with disabilities in
parking lots shall be as follows:
Total Off-Street Parking Spaces Required Required Minimum Number of Accessible
                                         Parking Spaces
Total Off-Street Parking Spaces Required Required Minimum Number of Accessible
                                         Parking Spaces
1 to 20                                  1
21 to 50                                 2
51 to 75                                 3
76 to 100                                4
101 to 150                               5
151 to 200                               6
201 to 300                               7
301 to 400                               8
401 to 500                               9
501 to 1,000                             2% of total number
1,000 or more                            20, plus 100 for each 1,000
 
   (B)   Where curbs are required around the parking areas, curb ramps shall be
provided.
   (C)   Parking signs for persons with disabilities shall be provided and
posted at each parking space for persons with disabilities as required by the
Zoning Administrator and the village.
   (D)   All provisions of the State Accessibility Code and guidelines on
parking for the drivers with disabilities shall be made a part of this chapter
as if spelled out in its entirety.
(Prior Code, § 159.111) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006) Penalty, see §
157.999
**** LOADING, UNLOADING AND OUTDOOR STORAGE ****
§ 157.140 LOADING, UNLOADING AND OUTDOOR STORAGE GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of this section is to alleviate or
prevent congestion of the public roads, and so promote the safety and welfare
of the public by establishing minimum requirements for the off-street loading
and unloading of motor freight vehicles in accordance with the use to which
property is placed.
   (B)   Scope. The off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage
provisions of this chapter shall apply as follows.
      (1)   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date of this chapter, off-street loading,
unloading and outdoor storage facilities shall be provided as required by the
regulations of the district in which the buildings or uses are located.
However, where a building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of
this chapter, and provided that construction is begun within one year of the
effective date and diligently prosecuted to completion.
      (2)   When the intensity of the use of any building, structures or
premises shall be increased through addition of gross floor area or other units
of measurement specified herein for required off-street loading, unloading and
outdoor storage facilities, the off-street loading, unloading and outdoor
storage as required herein shall be provided for with the increase in intensity
of the land use. No building or structure lawfully erected or use lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be required to
provide the additional off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage
facilities unless and until the aggregate increase in units of measurement
shall equal not less than 15% of the units of measurement existing on the
effective date of this chapter, in which event off-street loading, unloading
and outdoor storage facilities as required herein shall be provided for the
total increases.
      (3)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall
hereafter be changed to a new use, and off-street loading, unloading and
outdoor storage facilities need to be provided for the new use, it shall be in
accordance herein. However, if the building or structure was erected prior to
the effective date of this chapter, additional off-street loading, unloading
and outdoor storage facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which
requirements for the new use would exceed those for the existing use of the
latter were subject to the loading and unloading provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Existing off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage facilities.
Off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage facilities which are located
on the same lot as the building or use served and which were in existence on
the effective date of this chapter or were provided voluntarily after the
effective date shall not hereafter be reduced below, or if already less than,
shall not further be reduced below, the requirements of this chapter for a
similar new building or land use.
   (D)   Voluntary establishment. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prevent the voluntary establishment of off-street loading, unloading and
outdoor storage facilities to serve any existing use of land or buildings;
provided that all regulations herein governing the location, design,
improvement and operation of the facilities are adhered to.
   (E)   Damage or destruction. For any conforming or legally nonconforming
building or use, as restricted by §§
157.180 through
157.187, which is in existence on the effective date of this chapter, which is
subsequently thereto damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or other
cause, and which is reconstructed, re-established or repaired, off-street
loading, unloading and outdoor storage facilities equivalent to any maintained
at the time of the damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in
operation. However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain
off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage facilities in excess of those
required by this chapter for equivalent new uses in construction.
   (F)   Control of off-site facilities. Where required off-street loading,
unloading and outdoor storage facilities are provided on land other than the
zoning lot on which the building or use served by the facilities is located,
they shall be and remain in the same possession or ownership as the zoning lot
occupied by the building or use to which the off-street loading, unloading and
outdoor storage facilities are necessary. No such off-site loading, unloading
and outdoor storage facilities shall be authorized and no zoning certificate
shall be issued where the plans call for off-site loading, unloading and
outdoor storage facilities other than on the same zoning lot until and unless
the Planning and Zoning Commission has reviewed the plans and heard the
applicant and made findings that the common ownership or possession of the
zoning lot and the site of the loading, unloading and outdoor storage
facilities are reasonably certain to continue and that the off-street loading,
unloading and outdoor storage facilities will be maintained at all times during
the life of the proposed use or building.
   (G)   Submission of plot plan. Any application for a building permit, or for
a certificate of occupancy where no building permit is required, shall include
therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and showing dimensions, any off-street
loading, unloading and outdoor storage facilities to be provided shall be in
compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 159.112) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.141 USE OF FACILITIES.
   Off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage facilities accessory to
any development shall be in accordance with the requirements of this section
and shall be used solely for the loading, unloading and outdoor storage of
vehicles controlled by the occupants of the structures to which the facilities
are necessary, and as regulated in §
157.026.
(Prior Code, § 159.113) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.142 JOINT USE OF FACILITIES.
   Off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage facilities for different
buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed uses, may be provided collectively
in any zoning district in which separate loading, unloading and outdoor storage
facilities for each constituent use would be permitted; provided that the total
number of spaces so located together shall not be less than the sum of the
separate requirements for each use. Developer, builder and/or development shall
provided a recorded document for cross access easements when property or
properties have more than one tenant/occupant to the property for parking lot
usage by patrons, employees and the like.
(Prior Code, § 159.114) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.143 SIZE, ACCESS AND DESIGN OF LOADING, UNLOADING AND OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   (A)   Size and access (off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage).
      (1)   Size. Each off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage space
provided on a zoning lot shall be at least 12 feet in width and at least 50
feet in length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space thereto, and shall
have a vertical clearance of at least 14 feet.
      (2)   Access. Each required off-street loading, unloading and outdoor
storage space shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a
street or alley in a manner which will lease interfere with traffic movements.
   (B)   Design and maintenance.
      (1)   Open and enclosed loading, unloading and outdoor storage spaces.
Accessory loading, unloading and outdoor storage spaces located on the same lot
as occupied by the use served may be open to the sky or enclosed in a building.
      (2)   Surfacing. All open off-street loading, unloading and outdoor
storage areas, including driveways and aisles, shall be improved with a
compacted stone base, not less than eight inches thick, surfaced with not less
than three inches of compacted asphalt or concrete as approved by the village.
      (3)   Curbing. All parking lots shall have complete non-mountable curbing
system at the perimeter of the lots. This system shall be designed to retain
and direct stormwater on-site.
      (4)   Screening and landscaping. All applications for building permits
requested for new construction in multi-family residential, commercial and
manufacturing districts shall provide a landscaping plan which shall be
submitted to the Village Planner for review and subject to approval by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and Village Board of Trustees. All open loading,
unloading and outdoor storage areas containing more than four loading,
unloading and outdoor storage spaces shall be effectively screened on each side
adjoining or fronting on any property by a wall, fence or densely planted
compact hedge not less than five feet nor more than seven feet in height. The
required screening shall conform with the front and side yard setback
requirements of the district in which the loading, unloading and outdoor
storage is located. Landscaping requirements under the business/commercial
section of this chapter shall also apply where required. (See §
157.095(G).)
      (5)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street loading,
unloading and outdoor storage areas shall be directed away from any residential
properties and public highways in such a way as not to create a nuisance.
      (6)   Signage. Directional and regulatory signs only are permitted in
loading, unloading and outdoor storage areas. All other signage must meet with
the approval of the Village Planner and the Planning and Zoning Commission if
required.
      (7)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall
be permitted in conjunction with accessory off-street loading, unloading and
outdoor storage facilities provided in a residential district. The sale of
gasoline and motor oil in conjunction with accessory off-street loading,
unloading and outdoor storage facilities is not permitted in any residential
district.
      (8)   Space requirements. Space allocated to any off-street loading,
unloading and outdoor storage facility shall not, while so allocated, be used
to satisfy the space requirements for any off-street parking facility or
portions thereof.
      (9)   Receiving facilities. Uses for which off-street loading, unloading
and outdoor storage facilities are required herein but which are located in
buildings of less floor area than the minimum prescribed for the required
facilities shall be provided with adequate receiving facilities off any
adjacent alley, service drive or open space on the same lot which is accessible
by motor vehicles.
      (10)   Special uses. For special uses other than prescribed herein,
loading, unloading and outdoor storage facilities adequate in number and size
to serve the use, as determined by the Village Planner, shall be provided.
   (C)   Location of off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage
facilities.
      (1)   All required loading, unloading and outdoor storage facilities
shall be located on the same zoning lot as the use served. No loading,
unloading and outdoor storage facilities for vehicles over two ton capacity
shall be closer than 50 feet to any property in a residential district unless
completely enclosed by building/structural walls, or any combination thereof,
not less than six feet in height. No permitted or required loading, unloading
and outdoor storage facility shall be located within 50 feet of the nearest
point of intersection of any two streets.
      (2)   Within all commercial zoning districts and within the M-R,
Manufacturing/Research District, loading, unloading and outdoor storage
facilities shall not be permitted on any portion of a building facade having
street frontage on a public roadway, except as directed and reviewed by the
Village Planner and Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   Additional criteria for outdoor storage spaces. The maximum number of
outdoor trailer storage spaces for truck trailers shall not be greater than one
and one-half outdoor trailer storage spaces for each loading dock on the
principal building(s) on the same lot. Outdoor trailer storage spaces shall be
landscaped in the manner prescribed for off-street parking spaces in §
157.037(D).
(Prior Code, § 159.115) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.144 SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET LOADING, UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street loading and unloading spaces shall be provided for any use
occupying 25,000 square feet or more of floor area.
(Prior Code, § 159.116) Penalty, see §
157.999
**** SIGNAGE ****
§ 157.155 SIGNS PURPOSE.
   The regulation of signs by this subchapter is intended to promote and
protect the public health, safety and welfare by:
   (A)   Reducing the depreciation of property values caused by signs that are
incompatible with surrounding land uses;
   (B)   Creating a viable economic and business climate within the commercial
and industrial areas of the village;
   (C)   Enhancing and protecting the physical appearance of all areas of the
village; and
   (D)   Reducing the distraction, obstructions and hazards to pedestrians and
vehicular traffic caused by the indiscriminate placement and use of signs.
(Prior Code, § 159.121) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022)
§ 157.156 SCOPE.
   (A)   The regulations of this section shall govern and control the erection,
enlargement, expansion, alteration, operation, maintenance, relocation and
removal of all signs within the village and any sign not expressly permitted by
these regulations shall be prohibited.
   (B)   The regulations of this section related to the location of signs, by
function and type, within zoning districts and shall be in addition to
provisions of the village building code.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, a SIGN shall mean any object,
device, display or structure or part thereof situated outdoors or when situated
indoors, intended to be seen from the outdoors which is used to advertise,
identify, display, direct or attract attention to an object, person,
institution, organization, business, product, service, event or location by any
means, including words, figures, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, motion,
illumination or projected images.
(Prior Code, § 159.122) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022)
§ 157.157 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs shall not be permitted in any zoning district:
   (A)    Flashing signs, except electronic message boards/dynamic display
signs, as defined and permitted in this chapter, which show temperature, time,
business or public service messages for not less than ten seconds with no
animation effects;
   (B)   Signs which constitute a hazard to public health or safety;
   (C)   Signs displaying obscene, indecent or immoral matter;
   (D)   Signs mounted on trailers or motor vehicles; provided that signs
containing the name, address or business identification of the owner or user
and displayed on a motor vehicle in use and portable signs defined herein are
exempt from this section;
   (E)   Signs which are mounted on the roof and project above the highest
point of the building or roof to which they are attached;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4691.png]
 
   (F)   Attention-getting devices, including, but not limited to, moving,
rotating or undulating signs, or light beams, strobe lights, flashing lights or
animated light displays;
   (G)   Inflatable devices, except as otherwise permitted with a special
events permit;
   (H)   Signs which, by reason of size, location, content, color or manner of
illumination, obstruct the vision of motorists or interfere with the visibility
or effectiveness of any traffic sign or control device on public streets;
   (I)   Signs which make use of words such as “Stop,” “Look,” “One-Way,”
“Danger,” “Yield” or any similar word, phrase, symbol or light so as to
interfere with or confuse pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
   (J)   Signs displayed within or extended over public right-of-way, except
those erected or authorized by a government authority having jurisdiction of
the public right-of-way;
   (K)   Signs which obstruct ingress or egress from any fire escape, door,
window or other exit or entrance;
   (L)   Wall-mounted box signs or cabinet signs;
   (M)   Advertising, business or identification signs on light poles of
establishments, unless such signs are owned by the village, the Chamber of
Commerce or another government agency as part of a communitywide event or
marketing campaign;
   (N)   Signs painted directly on trees, rocks and fences and other structures
or objects, except walls; and
   (O)   Festoon lighting.
(Prior Code, § 159.123) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.158 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Sign area. The following principles shall control the computation of
sign area and sign height within the village.
      (1)   Individual signs. The area of a sign shall be the smallest
rectangle which encloses the extreme limits of the writing, representation,
emblem or other display, together with any material or color forming an
integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the
sign from the back drop or structure against which it is placed, but excluding
the supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence or wall when such fence
or wall otherwise meeting zoning code regulations and is clearly incidental to
the sign display itself.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4693.png]
 
      (2)   Multiple-faced signs. The sign area for a sign with more than one
surface shall be computed by adding together the area of all sign surfaces
visible from any one point. When two identical sign surfaces are placed back to
back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time, and
when such sign surfaces are part of the same sign structure and are not more
than 12 inches apart, the sign area shall be computed by the measurement of one
of the sign surfaces.
      (3)   Number of signs. For the purpose of determining number of signs, a
sign shall be considered to be a single display surface or display containing
elements organized, related and composed to form a unit. Where matter is
displayed in a random manner without organized relationship to elements, or
where there is reasonable doubt as to the relationship of elements, each
element shall be considered to be a single sign.
   (B)   Sign height. The height of sign shall be the distance measured between
the top of the nearest public street curb and the highest point of the sign for
freestanding signs. For all other signs, the distance measured between finished
grade adjoining the wall on which a wall, projecting, awning or window sign is
attached and the highest point of said sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4695.png]
 
   (C)   Illumination. An illuminated sign is any sign from which artificial
light emanates either by means of exposed lighting on the surface of the sign
or through transparent or translucent material from a source within the sign,
or a sign which reflects artificial light from a source intentionally directed
upon it.
      (1)   Illuminated signs permitted in residential districts or located in
any other zoning district adjacent a residential zoned lot shall not be
illuminated between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., unless the use to
which the sign pertains is open.
      (2)   No illuminated sign shall be positioned or maintained so as to
permit the beams and illumination there from to be directed or beamed upon any
adjacent property nor to cause glare or reflection that may constitute a
nuisance or traffic hazard.
      (3)   A photometric plan may be required by the village in order to
confirm that light emitted by the sign does not exceed zero foot candles at the
property line of the parcel or lot on which the sign is located.
      (4)   See §
157.163(L) for additional illuminance standards set forth for dynamic display/
electronic message board signs.
   (D)   Setback. Except as otherwise provided herein, freestanding signs shall
be located at least ten feet from any driveway and lot line. The setback of a
sign shall be measured as the distance between the point of reference specified
and the closest point on the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4697.png]
 
   (E)   Electrical elements. All wiring, fittings and materials used in the
construction, connection and operation of electrically illuminated signs shall
be in accordance with the provisions of the village building code and shall be
contained in rigid conduit or enclosed in poles or raceways. No wiring may be
exposed on the surface of any element of the sign.
   (F)   Sign maintenance. The owner of a sign or the premises on which such
sign is located shall be liable for maintenance of such sign, including its
source(s) of illumination; its’ neat and orderly condition (free of any
debris); maintenance to ensure good working order at all times (i.e.,
functional light bulbs); and for preventing deterioration of the physical
appearance (i.e., sign fading) or safety of such sign. Message board signs must
be designed in such a manner that the message area is resistant to damage by
wind and vandalism.
   (G)   Structural elements. The construction and structural components of all
signs shall be in accordance with the standards and regulations of the village
building code.
   (H)   Sight triangle. To protect the visibility of automotive traffic,
bicyclists and pedestrians, signs and any concealed support elements supporting
a sign shall not be located within any sight triangle described in §
157.021.
   (I)   Overhang. Except awning, canopy and projecting signs, no sign may
overhang any part of a structure, sidewalk, parking or loading space, driveway
or maneuvering aisle.
   (J)   Window surface area. For the purposes of calculating window signage,
WINDOW SURFACE AREA shall be defined as all the glass surfaces, including
windows and doors of a single tenant building or of a space in a multiple
tenant building occupied by a single user, that make up the street-facing
facade.
      (1)   All window signs shall occupy no more than 50% of the total window
surface area of a storefront facing the public street.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator or Village Manager may revoke the use of
window signs at a particular location at any time if the window signage is
deemed to limit visibility into a location in a matter that compromises public
safety.
(Prior Code, § 159.124) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 15-1229, passed
11-18-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed 9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.159 SIGNS EXEMPTED FROM THIS SECTION.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed as exempting the following signs
from the provisions of §§
157.157 and
157.158 or from any provisions of the building code or those portions of the
village code other than
Chapter 157 which may be applicable to signs. The following signs are otherwise
exempt from regulations of this section.
   (A)   Flags, symbols or crests of nations, states, cities or political,
fraternal, religious or civic organizations; provided the number of such flags
does not exceed four. One flag displaying the name or logo of a company or
business shall be allowed provided that it is flown along with the American
flag and shall not be larger than said flag. These flags shall be flown in
accordance with protocol established by the Congress of the United States for
the Stars and Stripes;
   (B)   Decorations customarily and commonly associated with a national, local
or religious holiday, or recognized local special event; provided that such
decorations shall not be displayed for more than 60 days;
   (C)   Signs in nonresidential districts not exceeding two square feet in
area bearing only the name or logo of the occupant, or address of the lot, or
indicating building entrances or exits. Only one such sign per occupant
entrance or exit shall be permitted. Such signs may be illuminated;
   (D)   Legal notices, identification, informational, directional, traffic or
other sign erected or required by governmental authority under the law, statute
or ordinance;
   (E)   Memorial signs or tablets containing the names of a building and the
date of construction, when cut into any masonry surface so as to be part of the
building or when constructed of bronze or some other noncombustible material
and permanently attached to a building;
   (F)   Non-illuminated signs displayed on windows provided the area of all
window signs occupy no more than 50% of the window surface area;
   (G)   For purposes of marketing lots or parcels for sale, lease or
development (real estate); for advertising activities related to construction
taking place on a lot; and/or for purposes of announcing a business opening
soon on a lot in nonresidential districts, the following shall be exempt:
      (1)   (a)   For one property less than ten acres in size having one real
estate, construction and/or coming soon sign erected on site. Contiguous lots
under the same ownership shall be considered one property for the purposes of
this section.
         (b)   Such sign shall meet the following requirements.
            1.   The sign shall be more than six square feet in area but not
exceeding 32 square feet in area, and not more than eight feet in height. This
sign shall be for marketing a lot or parcel for sale or lease or development,
and for indicating the name of the owner, agent or broker having a role or
interest with respect to the sale or lease or development of the lot or parcel.
It may also be for a lot on which construction is taking place that indicates
the name of the architects, engineers, landscape architects, contractors and
similar artisans, and the owners, financial supporters, sponsors and similar
persons or firms having a role or interest with respect to the structure or
project. Additionally, the sign may advertise a future business opening on the
lot, i.e., Coming Soon.
            2.   The sign shall be located on vacant or nonresidential property
in any zoning district, or on a lot under construction. Said sign shall be a
wall or freestanding sign, shall not be illuminated and shall be set back not
less than ten feet from any lot line.
            3.   Such real estate signs must be removed within two days of
closing or lease transaction.
      (2)   (a)   For one property over ten acres in size having no more than
one real estate, construction and/or coming soon sign erected on each street
frontage, but not to exceed two total on site. Contiguous lots under the same
ownership shall be considered one property for the purposes of this section.
         (b)   Such signs shall meet the following requirements.
            1.   Signs shall be more than six square feet in area but not
exceeding 32 square feet in area, and not more than eight feet in height. These
signs shall be for marketing a lot or parcel for sale or lease or development,
and for indicating the name of the owner, agent or broker having a role or
interest with respect to the sale or lease or development of the lot or parcel.
They may also be for a lot on which construction is taking place that indicates
the name of the architects, engineers, landscape architects, contractors and
similar artisans, and the owners, financial supporters, sponsors and similar
persons or firms having a role or interest with respect to the structure or
project. Additionally, the signs may advertise a future business opening on the
lot, i.e., Coming Soon.
            2.   Signs shall be located on vacant or nonresidential property in
any zoning district, or on a lot under construction. Said sign shall be a wall
or freestanding sign, shall not be illuminated and shall be set back not less
than ten feet from any lot line.
            3.   Such real estate signs must be removed within two days of
closing or lease transaction.
   (H)   Signs attached to the underside of a canopy provided such signs do not
exceed six square feet in area and are mounted at right angles to the building
facade and provided a minimum clearance of seven feet above the sidewalk is
maintained and that no portion of such sign is within one foot of the edge of
the canopy;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4699.png]
 
   (I)   Public telephone, gasoline pump and vending machine graphics, logos
and instructions;
   (J)   All signs in residential zoning districts are subject to the
following.
      (1)   The maximum size of an individual sign is two feet by three feet.
The maximum total allowed square footage of sign area per lot is 24 square
feet.
      (2)   Signs which are mutilated, damaged, faded, destroyed or rendered
unreadable must be removed or replaced by the person that erected them or
caused their creation.
      (3)   Signs are not allowed to obstruct vision and not allowed to be
located in the vision triangle.
      (4)   No sign shall be illuminated.
   (K)   Works of art that do not include a commercial message, graphic or
logo;
   (L)   One menu board sign for a drive-through window operation; provided
such sign does not exceed 32 square feet in area and eight feet in height;
   (M)   Religious symbols or identification emblems of religious orders, no
greater than 32 square feet in area, in connection with a place of worship or
religious assembly;
   (N)   When located on agricultural property used for agricultural purposes,
signs no greater than two square feet in area pertaining to seed, fertilizer or
hybrid products used, produced or cultivated on the property, and signs no
greater than 32 square feet in area pertaining to the sale in season of
agricultural products grown or produced on the property;
   (O)   In nonresidential districts, signs no greater than four square feet in
area, which may not be illuminated, with only one such sign per business
entrance;
   (P)   One portable sign no larger than ten square feet in area when
displayed on a sidewalk adjacent the facade of a tenant space or a building
occupied by a commercial use; provided such sign is displayed only during the
hours of operation of the commercial use, is not illuminated, the sign does not
interfere with pedestrian movement and that it does not require transport by a
motor vehicle. Such signs are intended to benefit and to attract the attention
of pedestrians;
   (Q)   Permanent public park and pathway signs no greater than 32 square feet
in area;
   (R)   Directional signs within the public right-of-way in conjunction with a
license agreement with the village;
   (S)   Public agency or unit of government special event signage. Temporary
signs for festivals, programs or special events hosted by a public body. Such
signage may be located on-site or off-premises with the permission of the
property owner. Signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and eight feet in
height. Portable signs are permitted; provided they shall not be internally
illuminated. Such signage must follow the applicable standards in this chapter
for duration of display, sight triangle and sign maintenance; and
   (T)   Village signage including entryway signs, public building
identification signs and public information/address signage. Such signage may
include electronic message boards.
(Prior Code, § 159.125) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.160 CLASSIFICATIONS OF SIGNS.
   For purpose of this section, signs shall be classified according to their
function and structural type, defined as follows.
   (A)   Sign Classification Table. For purposes of convenience, the following
table is provided to clarify which sign structural types may be used for
particular types of sign functions. An “X” shall indicate the only permitted
use of various sign structural types for various types of sign functions:
Functional Type Structural Type
                Awning Canopy Freestanding Portable Projecting Wall Window
Functional Type  Structural Type
                 Awning Canopy Freestanding Portable Projecting Wall Window
Advertising                    X
Business         X      X      X                     X          X    X
Development                    X
Directional                    X                                X
Grand opening    X      X      X            X                   X    X
Identification   X      X      X                     X          X    X
Message board                  X
Political                      X
Real estate                    X                                X    X
Temporary                      X                                X    X
Tenant                         X
identification
Time/temperature               X
 
   (B)   Functional type.
      (1)   Advertising sign. A sign, commonly known as a billboard, which
directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted,
sold or offered at a location other than the lot on which the sign is located;
or a sign which directs attention to a business that is no longer conducted or
to a product that is no longer sold on the lot on which the sign is located. An
advertising sign shall be a freestanding sign.
      (2)   Business sign. A sign which directs attention to a business or
profession conducted, or to a commodity or service sold, offered or
manufactured, or to an entertainment offered on the premises where the sign is
located or to which it is affixed. A business sign shall be an awning, canopy,
wall or window sign.
      (3)   Development sign. A sign designating the name and/or address of the
development. A DEVELOPMENT, for the purpose of this section, shall mean a
building or buildings located on a lot not less than 100 feet in width at the
front property line and under unified ownership or control. A development sign
may be used for the identification of residential or nonresidential
subdivisions or developments. A development sign shall be a freestanding sign
and may include tenant identification signs, time and temperature signs and
message board signs.
      (4)   Tenant identification sign. A sign giving the name of a tenant on a
lot on which two or more tenants or businesses are located. Said sign shall
only indicate the name of the tenant or business establishment or a logo or
symbolic representation of the type of business. Tenant identification signs
shall be uniform in size and shape and be designed for maximum legibility.
      (5)   Message board/dynamic display/digital sign. A sign designed so that
characters, letters or illustrations can be changed or rearranged
electronically, electrically or manually without altering the face or surface
of the sign. A message board sign shall only be accessory and incidental to a
development, identification or business sign, and shall only utilize LCD or LED
technology that cannot be read past the property line on which the sign is
placed.
      (6)   Grand opening sign. Any sign used for the purpose of advertising a
grand opening or grand re-opening of a new business. A grand opening sign may
be an awning, canopy, freestanding, portable, temporary, wall or window sign.
Grand opening signs shall not be used for promotions, special sales, seasonal
sales or going out-of-business sales.
      (7)   Identification sign. A sign giving the name and address of a
residential building, business, development, industry or other building or
establishment. Such signs may be wholly or partly devoted to a readily
recognized logo or symbol. An identification sign shall be an awning, canopy,
freestanding, projecting, wall or window sign.
      (8)   Real estate sign. A sign indicating the sale, rental, lease or
development of a building or lot, or a portion thereof, on which the sign is
located. A real estate sign may be a freestanding, wall or window sign.
      (9)   Time and temperature sign. A sign that provides current time and/or
temperature information to the public. Such signs may be wholly or partially
devoted to a readily recognized logo or symbol. A time and temperature sign
shall only be accessory and incidental to a freestanding development,
identification or business sign.
      (10)   Temporary sign. Any sign, banner, pennant, streamer or advertising
display constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or
other light-weight material without a frame. A temporary sign shall be a wall,
window, awning or canopy sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4701.png]
 
   (C)   Structural type.
      (1)   Awning sign. A sign that is mounted on or attached to an awning
that is otherwise permitted by this section. An awning may be fixed or
retractable and shall be securely attached to and supported by the building. No
posts or columns shall be permitted to support the awning. Awnings shall be
designed to provide unobstructed flow of pedestrian traffic along any sidewalk.
The construction materials and the manner of construction of all awnings shall
be in accordance with the village building code.
      (2)   Canopy sign. A sign that is mounted on or attached to a canopy that
is otherwise permitted by this section. A canopy shall not encroach upon the
required building line on a lot. The construction materials and the manner of
construction of all canopies shall be in accordance with the village building
code.
      (3)   Freestanding sign. A sign supported independently of any structure.
Such sign may be referred to as a ground, monument or pole sign.
      (4)   Portable sign. A freestanding sign, no face of which shall exceed
32 square feet, attached to or mounted upon a frame intended to be moved from
place to place. Such sign may be used as a grand opening sign and may or may
not include moveable lettering and/or electrical equipment for use as
illuminated signs. All illuminated portable signs shall be wired with a UL
approved ground fault interrupter, and all service connections shall be
approved by a village electrical inspector. No flashing lights or other moving
displays shall be permitted on such sign, and all illumination shall be of an
indirect or diffused nature.
      (5)   Projecting sign. A sign attached perpendicular to a wall of a
building, supported solely by the building, and having not more than two faces
which may be no more than 12 inches apart.
      (6)   Roof sign. A sign attached to or mounted on a roof of a building is
prohibited. No sign shall be attached, anchored or located above the deck of a
flat roof.
      (7)   Wall sign. A sign painted on or fastened to the wall of a building
or structure in such a manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure
for, or forms the background surface of, the sign and which does not project
more than 12 inches from such building or structure. No sign shall extend
beyond the width of the facade of the building to which it is attached.
      (8)   Window sign. A sign which is painted, applied or attached to, or
located within three feet of the interior of a window, which sign may be seen
through the window from the exterior of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 159.126) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.161 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   Unless otherwise provided elsewhere in these regulations, the following
signs shall be permitted in the village as accessory structures, subject to the
following and all other applicable standards.
   (A)   Awning signs. Where permitted in §
157.160(A), Sign Classification Table, awning signs shall be permitted subject
to the following.
      (1)   Number. Not more than one awning sign shall be permitted on each
awning.
      (2)   Location. Individual letters, words or symbols may be affixed or
applied to any awning surface facing a public street or mounted over a public
entrance to an establishment and shall not face a residential lot.
      (3)   Height. The maximum height of an awning sign shall be the highest
point of the awning to which the sign is attached or 16 feet, whichever is
less.
      (4)   Sign display area limits. The awning sign shall not extend beyond
the awning surface on which the sign is located, nor beyond the premises of a
particular establishment.
      (5)   Sign area. The area of an awning sign shall not exceed one and one-
half square feet of sign area for each lineal foot of awning, and the actual
signage face shall not exceed three feet in height.
      (6)   Illumination. Awning signs may be illuminated subject to the
standards in §
157.158.
      (7)   Clearance. A minimum clearance of eight feet shall be provided
between finished grade and the lowest point of an awning sign, but in no
instance shall an awning sign extend below the lowest point of the awning to
which the sign is attached.
      (8)   Projection. No awning sign and the awning to which it is affixed
shall project more than eight feet from the building wall, but shall not
project into or over the roadway of any street or driveway.
      (9)   Setback from curb. No awning sign and the awning to which it is
affixed shall project within two feet of the curb of a street or driveway or
parking space.
   (B)   Canopy signs. Where permitted in §
157.160(A), Sign Classification Table, canopy signs shall be permitted subject
to the following.
      (1)   Number. Not more than one canopy sign shall be permitted per street
frontage per building or tenant space having an exterior public entrance.
      (2)   Location. Canopy signs shall be mounted on the face of a canopy.
      (3)   Height. The maximum height of a canopy sign shall be the highest
point of the canopy to which said sign is attached or 18 feet, whichever is
less.
      (4)   Sign display area limits. The canopy sign shall not extend beyond
the canopy face on which the sign is located, nor beyond the premises of a
particular establishment.
      (5)   Sign area. The area of a canopy sign shall not exceed one and one-
half square feet of sign area for each lineal foot of awning, and the actual
signage face shall not exceed three feet in height.
      (6)   Illumination. Canopy signs may be illuminated subject to the
standards in §
157.158.
      (7)   Clearance. A minimum clearance of eight feet shall be provided
between finished grade to the lowest point of a canopy sign, but in no instance
shall a canopy sign extend below the lowest point of the canopy on which the
sign is attached.
      (8)   Projection. No canopy sign shall project more than 12 inches from
the canopy to which it is attached.
   (C)   Freestanding signs. Where permitted in §
157.160(A), Sign Classification Table, freestanding business, identification
and development signs shall be permitted subject to the following.
      (1)   Development signs.
         (a)   Number. Each multiple tenant development having a minimum of 25
acres of area shall be permitted one freestanding development sign for each 25
acres of land area, but in no case shall more than two such signs be permitted
on a development parcel and provided there is only one such sign per street
frontage.
         (b)   Location. No development sign shall be located closer than ten
feet from any property line, and shall be located not less than 25 feet from
any residential zoned lot. No development sign shall be located closer than 100
feet to another permanent freestanding sign.
         (c)   Height. No development sign shall exceed 25 feet in height.
         (d)   Sign area. The maximum sign area shall be 150 square feet.
         (e)   Illumination. Development signs may be illuminated subject to
the standards in §
157.158.
         (f)   Time and temperature displays. Time and temperature displays may
be incorporated into a development sign provided location, area and other
technical requirements herein are satisfied. The area of any time and
temperature displays shall be included in the maximum sign area.
         (g)   Message board sign. Message board/dynamic display signs shall be
permitted when incorporated into a development sign subject to all applicable
standards set forth §
157.163(L).
         (h)   Distance from buildings. No development sign shall be located
closer than ten feet to a building.
         (i)   Sign landscaping. All development signs shall be located in a
landscaped area separated and protected from vehicular circulation and parking
areas. A minimum of two square feet of landscaping area shall be required for
every one square foot of sign surface area provided, but no development sign
landscape area shall be less than 50 square feet in area. Said landscape area
shall be landscaped appropriately.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4703.png]
 
         (j)   Architectural feature. All development signs shall be designed
and constructed as an integral architectural element of the overall development
incorporating elements and details and building materials used in the principal
building(s). The area and height of the architectural feature shall not be
computed as part of the development sign area and height.
         (k)   Multi-tenant signs. Any sign constructed with tenant panels must
not have blank tenant panels at any time.
      (2)   Business and identification signs.
         (a)   Number. Each lot or development having less than 25 acres of
area shall be permitted one freestanding business or identification sign for
each street frontage.
         (b)   Location. No freestanding business or identification sign shall
be located closer than ten feet from any property line, and shall be located
not less than 25 feet from any residential zoned lot. No freestanding business
or identification sign shall be located closer than 100 feet to another
permanent freestanding sign.
         (c)   Height. No freestanding business or identification sign shall
exceed ten feet in height.
         (d)   Sign area. The maximum sign area shall be 25 square feet.
         (e)   Illumination. Freestanding business or identification signs may
be illuminated subject to the standards in §
157.158.
         (f)   Time and temperature displays. Time and temperature displays may
be incorporated into a freestanding business or identification sign; provided
location, area and other technical requirements herein are satisfied. The area
of any time and temperature displays shall be included in the maximum sign
area.
         (g)   Message board sign. Message board/dynamic display signs shall be
permitted when incorporated into a business identification sign subject to all
applicable standards set forth in §
157.163(L).
         (h)   Distance from buildings. No freestanding business or
identification sign shall be located closer than ten feet from a building.
         (i)   Sign landscaping. All freestanding business or identification
signs shall be located in a landscaped area separated and protected from
vehicular circulation and parking areas. A minimum of two square feet of
landscaping area shall be required for every one square foot of sign surface
area provided, but no development sign landscape area shall be less than 50
square feet in area. Said landscape area shall be landscaped appropriately.
         (j)   Decorative sign base. All freestanding business or
identification signs shall be designed and constructed with an integral
decorative base constructed of wood, metal, masonry or stone to conceal the
sign’s support structure(s) and to visually compliment the building materials
used on the principal building(s) on the lot. The decorative base shall be
equal to at least 75% of the width of the sign face. The area of the decorative
sign base shall not be computed as part of the sign area. The height of the
decorative sign base shall be computed in determining the sign height.
         (k)   Multi-tenant signs. Any sign constructed with tenant panels must
not have blank tenant panels at any time.
   (D)   Portable signs. Where permitted in §
157.160(A), Sign Classification Table, portable signs shall be permitted
subject to the following.
      (1)   Number. No more than one portable sign shall be permitted on a lot
at any one time. Such sign that must be transported by motor vehicle and/or on
a trailer may only be used as a grand opening sign.
      (2)   Location. Portable signs shall comply with all location
requirements for freestanding signs, with the exception that portable signs may
be located closer than 100 feet from a freestanding sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4707.png]
 
      (3)   Sign area. The area of a portable sign shall not exceed 32 square
feet.
      (4)   Duration of display.
         (a)   No portable sign shall be displayed for more than 30 consecutive
days within six months of occupancy of a building or tenant space.
         (b)   Portable signs may be displayed only for grand-opening or grand
re-opening celebrations.
   (E)   Projecting signs. Where permitted in §
157.160(A), Sign Classification Table, projecting identification signs shall be
permitted subject to the following.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4705.png]
 
      (1)   Number. Not more than one projecting sign per establishment shall
be permitted on a building wall facing a public street and/or having a public
entrance; provided no canopy sign for the establishment are located on the same
building wall.
      (2)   Location. Projecting signs shall be affixed to the wall having the
establishment’s public entrance and shall not be located beyond the premises of
a particular establishment.
      (3)   Height. No projecting sign shall extend above the roof line or the
highest point of the wall of the building on which it is located or 14 feet
from finished grade, whichever is less.
      (4)   Sign area. The area of a projecting sign shall not exceed 16 square
feet.
      (5)   Illumination. Projecting signs may be illuminated subject to the
standards in §
157.158.
      (6) Clearance. Projecting signs shall provide a minimum clearance of
eight feet between the finished grade below the sign to the lowest edge of the
sign.
      (7)   Projection. No projecting sign shall project from the building wall
more than six feet. The innermost edge of the projecting sign shall be no more
than one foot from the wall of the building to which it is attached. Projecting
signs may swing, but all projecting signs shall be permanently attached to the
building.
      (8)   Setback from curb. No projecting sign shall project within two feet
of the curb of a street or driveway or parking space.
   (F)   Temporary signs. Where permitted in §
157.160(A), Sign Classification Table, temporary signs shall be permitted
subject to the following.
      (1)   Location. Temporary signs shall comply with all location
requirements for freestanding, wall and window.
      (2)   Number. No more than one-third of the businesses on any individual
lot may display temporary signs concurrently.
      (3)   Height. Temporary signs shall comply with the height requirements
for freestanding, wall and window.
      (4)   Sign area. No freestanding temporary sign shall exceed 32 square
feet in area and eight feet in height. No temporary sign attached to an awning,
canopy or wall shall exceed 60 square feet in area.
      (5)   Illumination. Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (6)   Duration of display.
         (a)   Temporary signs shall be permitted for no more than 30
consecutive days.
         (b)   Temporary signs shall not be displayed more than one time in any
one calendar year by an establishment on a lot.
   (G)   Wall signs. Where permitted in §
157.160(A), Sign Classification Table, wall signs shall be permitted subject to
the following.
      (1)   Number. Not more than one business and identification wall sign per
street frontage or per building wall having a public entrance per establishment
shall be permitted; provided no canopy sign for the same establishment is
directed to the same street frontage, except that the following apply.
         (a)   Not more than one business or identification wall sign may be
permitted on walls not facing a street or having a public entrance; provided
the wall does not face a residential lot and is at least 50 feet from the
nearest property line or another building on the lot.
         (b)   No wall signs shall be allowed for individual tenants in a
multi-story or a multi-tenant building having no exterior building entrance for
each tenant.
      (2)   Location. Wall signs shall be affixed only to a wall having the
establishment’s public entrance or a wall facing a public street.
      (3)   Height. The maximum height of a wall sign shall be 30 feet from
finished grade adjacent the wall to which the sign is attached.
      (4)   Sign display area limits. The wall sign display area shall not
extend above the wall of a building, beyond the premises of a particular
establishment in a building or over clear breaks in architectural facade on the
wall face.
      (5)   Sign area. The total area of all wall signs per wall shall not
exceed one and one-half square feet per lineal foot of wall to which the sign
is attached.
         (a)   For individual tenant spaces under 30,000 square feet, the
actual signage face shall not exceed three feet in height.
         (b)   For individual tenant spaces in the P-B, M-1 or M-2 District
30,000 square feet or greater, wall signs may not exceed five feet in height.
The sign must also be framed by at least two feet of clear wall space preceding
and following any text or image.
      (6)   Illumination. Wall signs may be illuminated subject to the
standards in §
157.158.
   (H)   Window signs, illuminated. Where permitted in §
157.160(A), Sign Classification Table, illuminated business and identification
signs may be placed or positioned within three feet of the interior of window
glass subject to the following.
      (1)   Location. Window signs may be displayed only in windows facing a
public street, or in windows in a wall having a public entrance, but in no
instance in any windows facing a residential lot.
      (2)   Sign display area. Each illuminated window sign shall be located
within the exterior glass surface area of all permitted windows, but excluding
doors and superficial borders or trim.
      (3)   Sign area. All window signs shall occupy no more than 50% of the
total window surface area of a storefront facing the public street.
      (4)   Illumination. Window signs may be illuminated subject to the
standards in §
157.158.
      (5)   Number. No more than two illuminated window sign shall be permitted
for each tenant space.
(Prior Code, § 159.127) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.162 SIGN AREA BONUSES.
   (A)   (1)   To encourage higher quality of design and increased
effectiveness of graphics in the village, the village will reward the use of
certain design features and criteria by permitting the property owner to
increase the area of a sign if any of the following design criteria are
employed. Such bonuses shall be granted cumulatively for compliance with each
of the criterion, up to a maximum of 50%.
      (2)   The percentage increase shall be based on the original permitted
maximum sign area:
         (a)   Twenty-five percent bonus for preparation of a comprehensive
sign plan for a lot having more than one principal building or more than one
tenant in the principal building. The comprehensive sign plan shall specify the
standards for consistency among all signs on the lot with regard to color,
lettering or graphic style, illumination, decorative lighting, materials,
location of signs on the building(s) and on the lot and dimensions of signs;
         (b)   Fifteen percent bonus for any sign using natural material in the
construction of the sign surface area;
         (c)   Fifteen percent bonus for any freestanding sign which utilizes
an opaque or non-illuminated background sign surface; and
         (d)   Ten percent bonus for any wall sign if the background color
matches the color of the building material behind the sign.
   (B)   Signs erected under the bonus provisions contained in this section
shall be adequately and continuously maintained, including landscaping as
provided herein, by the owner and such successors and assigns as benefit from
the bonus provisions in this section.
(Prior Code, § 159.128) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022)
§ 157.163 SPECIAL SIGNS.
   In addition to the foregoing, the following signs shall be permitted subject
to the following.
   (A)   Gasoline stations, service stations and mini-marts. Each gasoline
station, service station or mini-mart shall be allowed:
      (1)   One freestanding development sign per street frontage. Gasoline
price signs shall be integrated into the development sign but not included in
the calculation of allowable square footage. Price signs may be digital;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4711.png]
 
      (2)   One business sign per pump island, the total area of which shall
not exceed two square feet per gasoline pump and no such sign may be located
more than eight feet above grade. This sign may advertise products and goods
sold at the station premises and can be an electronic screen incorporated into
the design of the pump. For the purposes of this section, a pump is the
aboveground equipment used to dispense and measure multiple grades of gasoline
for full-service or self-service use of the customer and may have one or more
pump nozzles attached thereto for dispensing fuel to up to two cars at one
time;
      (3)   Identification signs at each pump island, the total area of which
shall not exceed six square feet per gasoline pump island, and no such sign;
      (4)   Business and identification signs located at the pump island shall
not be illuminated, unless the sign being incorporated is an electronic screen
and such screen cannot be read past the property line;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4709.png]
 
      (5)   For the purpose of this section, a PUMP ISLAND shall mean one or
more pumps arranged in a row. More than one pump island may be located under a
protective canopy or other roof-like structure; and
      (6)   No gas station signs may be displayed except with a valid sign
permit.
   (B)   Motor vehicle and recreational vehicle dealership. Each such
dealership shall be allowed a second freestanding development sign only if the
lot is used for both new and pre-owned vehicles, or if two or more makes or
product lines are offered for sale on the same lot. No more than two such signs
shall be allowed: one identifying the new vehicle product line and one
identifying pre-owned vehicles or the sale of a second vehicle product line.
Each sign shall otherwise conform to the height, area and location requirements
herein.
   (C)   Grand opening signs. A grand opening sign may be displayed only within
six months of issuance of an occupancy certificate. Any combination of portable
and temporary signs shall be permitted for grand opening or grand re-opening
celebrations, not to exceed three such signs and subject to the following.
      (1)   Permit required. No grand opening sign may be displayed except with
a valid sign permit.
      (2)   Portable signs.
         (a)   Number. No more than one portable sign shall be permitted on a
lot at any one time.
         (b)   Location. Portable signs shall comply with all location
requirements for freestanding signs, with the exception that portable signs may
be located closer than 100 feet from a freestanding sign.
         (c)   Sign area. The area of a portable sign shall not exceed 32
square feet.
         (d)   Illumination. Portable signs may be illuminated subject to the
standards in §
157.158.
      (3)   Temporary signs.
         (a)   Number. A maximum of one temporary sign shall be displayed on
the premises.
         (b)   Sign area. No temporary sign attached to a freestanding sign
shall exceed 32 square feet in area and eight feet in height. No temporary sign
attached to a wall, canopy or awning shall exceed 60 square feet in area and
shall conform to the sign display area limits for such freestanding, wall or
window.
         (c)   Location. Temporary signs shall comply with all location
requirements for awning, canopy, freestanding and wall signs.
         (d)   Illumination. Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Duration of display.
         (a)   No portable and/or temporary sign(s) used for advertising a
grand opening of a new business shall be displayed for more than one period of
time not exceeding 30 consecutive days within a calendar year and shall be
displayed only within six months of new occupancy of a building or tenant
space.
         (b)   All portable and temporary signs used for advertising a grand
opening of a new business or a business anniversary shall be displayed
simultaneously.
         (c)   Portable signs may be displayed only for grand (re-)opening
promotions or business anniversaries.
   (D)   Advertising signs. In addition to the terms and conditions of the
special use permit, advertising signs shall comply with the following.
      (1)   Permit required. Advertising signs shall only be permitted in the
zoning districts where such signs are identified as a special use.
      (2)   Number. Not more than one advertising sign per street frontage per
lot shall be permitted.
      (3)   Area and height. The area and height of advertising signs shall not
exceed the maximum specified for freestanding signs in §
157.161(C).
      (4)   Distance to residential lots. No advertising sign shall be located
closer than 100 yards to a residential zoning lot.
      (5)   Distance between signs. No advertising sign shall be located closer
than 100 feet to another freestanding sign.
      (6)   Setback. No advertising signs shall be located closer than ten feet
to any right-of-way line or closer than 75 feet to any side lot line.
      (7)   Unimproved property. Advertising signs shall be permitted only on
unimproved property.
      (8)   Removal. Advertising signs shall be removed at such time the lot on
which they are located is improved.
      (9)   Illumination. Advertising signs shall not be illuminated.
   (E)   Marquee sign.
      (1)   Marquees shall be designed and specified by a registered structural
engineer or registered architect and shall be subject to approval by the
Village Building Inspector.
      (2)   Marquees shall be supported solely by the building to which they
are attached; no columns or posts shall be permitted as supports. Marquees
shall be designed to provide unobstructed flow of pedestrian traffic along any
sidewalk.
      (3)   No marquee shall project within two feet of the curb of any street,
alley or driveway.
   (F)   Model home signs. For the purpose of this section, a MODEL HOME SALES
AREA shall mean one or more lots or dwellings arranged, developed and displayed
in such a manner as to showcase on a temporary basis various dwelling styles,
features, exteriors and other design options to the general public, and at
least one such model home or a temporary structure may be used for sales
presentations, consultations and displays for prospective purchasers. A MODEL
HOME SALES AREA shall provide accessory off-street parking, and may include
model homes for sale by more than one builder. A MODEL HOME SALES AREA is
usually located in the same recorded subdivision as the lot(s) on which the
dwellings are to be constructed. Model homes may be furnished and decorated.
      (1)   Master sign plan required. A master sign plan for model home sales
areas shall be provided by the builder and/or subdivider. The master sign plan
shall specify the standards for consistency among all signs in the model home
sales area and subdivision, if applicable, with regard to color, lettering or
graphic style, illumination, decorative lighting, materials, location of signs
on the building(s) and in the model home sales area and subdivision, and
dimensions of all signs, subject to the following.
         (a)   Model home sales area identification sign.
            1.   Number. One freestanding sign identifying the model home sales
area shall be permitted.
            2.   Location. The freestanding model home sales area
identification sign shall be located in the model home area it is identifying.
            3.   Height. The freestanding model home sales area identification
sign shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
            4.   Sign area. The maximum area of the model home area
identification sign shall be 64 square feet; provided that if the model home
sales area consists of two or less adjacent lots or buildings, or the recorded
subdivision has a development gateway sign(s), said freestanding sign shall not
exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (b)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs may be displayed in a model
home sales area subject to the requirements of this subchapter. In addition,
flags, banners, pennants and streamers may be displayed in a model home sales
area provided same are kept in good appearance.
         (c)   Additional model home sales area signs. Signs identifying
individual model homes, manufacturers, suppliers, builders or sponsors shall be
permitted; provided the total area of such signs shall not exceed 16 square
feet per model home and no individual sign shall exceed six square feet in area
and six feet in height. Said signs may be freestanding or wall signs.
         (d)   Subdivision directional signage. Signs directing customers to
the site of the subdivision or model home. Signs may be located on-site or off-
premises with the permission of the property owner. Signs may be no more than
15 square feet in area and three feet in height. No more than three such signs
shall be permitted per subdivision. If located off-premises, no more than one
such sign shall be located on any individual property. A maximum of two off-
site signs are allowed per intersection of public streets. Off-site signs shall
be a minimum of 1,000 feet from one another. Signs shall be constructed of
durable materials and kept in good condition. The Zoning Administrator shall
have the authority to approve the materials and to order the sign removed at
any time if it is deemed to be in disrepair. The duration of display shall be
subject to division (F)(3) below except that applications for off-site signs
must be submitted prior to February 1, 2010.
      (2)   Illumination. Model home sales area signs may be illuminated
subject to the standards in §
157.158.
      (3)   Duration of display. The model home sales area sign shall be
displayed as long as the model home(s) is (are) open to the general public and
are actively marketed. In no instance shall such signs be displayed
continuously for more than two years. The Village Board may grant extensions of
time for no more than one year for each request by the subdivider.
      (4)   Permit required. No model home sales area signs shall be displayed
except with a valid sign permit.
   (G)   Directional signs. Signs which direct or regulate the movement of
pedestrians or vehicles into or within a site shall comply with the following.
      (1)   No directional sign shall be displayed except with a valid sign
permit.
      (2)   No more than one such sign is displayed per driveway intersection.
      (3)   In M-1, M-2 and P-B Zoning Districts, the sign area may be a
maximum of 12 square feet and the sign may be a maximum of six feet tall. In
all other zoning districts, the sign does not exceed six square feet in area or
three feet in height from finished grade for freestanding signs or eight feet
in height from finished grade for wall signs.
      (4)   No more than 10% of the area of the sign is used to advertise any
business, product or service provided on the lot.
   (H)   Political signs in nonresidential zoning districts.
      (1)   Signs or posters announcing or describing candidates seeking a
public office at a particular election or announcing or describing political
issues and data pertinent to a specific election thereto shall be permitted.
      (2)   Such signs shall be permitted according to the following:
         (a)   Public rights-of-way: none allowed;
         (b)   Private property: not to exceed 16 square feet.
            1.   Signs or posters relating to such candidates for office shall
be “freestanding” only.
            2.   These signs cannot be attached to any utility poles, traffic
control devices, street signs or street lights.
            3.   Signs cannot be placed so as to interfere with visibility or
cause a traffic hazard.
            4.   Signs shall be posted no more than 60 days prior to an
election.
            5.   The signs or posters must be removed by the person who placed
them or caused them to be placed within ten days following the election, or
when mutilated, damaged or unreadable, whichever comes first.
         (c)   Political signs/posters are of a temporary nature and shall not
be illuminated by any type of artificial lighting sources; i.e., flood light,
porch light, Christmas lights or lights that cast light onto the sign/poster
placed by individuals, and not exclusive of street lights, traffic lights or
existing lighting prior to the sign being placed on the property; and
         (d)   No political sign/poster shall be placed on any property or
right-of-way owned by the village except as allowed by § 7-41 of the Illinois
Election Code (10 ILCS 5/7-41).
   (I)   Temporary signs. All temporary signs, defined herein, except grand
opening signs, shall comply with the following standards unless otherwise
stated.
      (1)   No temporary sign may be displayed except with a valid sign permit.
      (2)   No temporary sign shall be located upon any easement or right-of-
way.
      (3)   No temporary sign shall be located in such a way as to pose a
traffic hazard.
      (4)   All temporary signs shall be located entirely on the property being
served by the sign.
      (5)   All temporary signs shall comply with all other applicable
regulations regarding the use and placement of such signs.
      (6)   All temporary signs shall be removed within 24 hours after the
expiration of the authorization date, or if, in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator, the sign becomes damaged or poses an immediate danger to the
general health, safety and welfare of the community.
      (7)   (a)   Any cold air inflatable device, including balloons,
identifying a sale or promotional event for a business or a non-profit entity
shall be considered a temporary sign.
         (b)   In addition to the standards for temporary signs set forth
herein, such cold air inflatable devices:
            1.   Shall not exceed 25 feet in height;
            2.   Shall not exceed 15 feet in diameter;
            3.   Shall not be located on the roof of a building or atop any
other structure; and
            4.   Shall be securely anchored to the ground.
   (J)   Bank drive-through and ATM signs. Signs which advertise special
events, services or promotional campaigns occurring on the bank premises shall
comply with the following standards: advertising signage at each drive-through
and ATM shall not exceed two square feet in area and no such sign may be
located more than six feet above grade. This sign may advertise products and
services offered, or special events occurring on the bank premises. Said sign
can be an electronic screen incorporated into the design of the drive-through
or ATM that cannot be read past the property line.
   (K)   Permanent residential development entrance signs. Each subdivision
located on ten or more acres shall be permitted to install entryway signage at
entrances off major or secondary arterials, or major collector, as defined by §
157.003, and the village master transportation plan, and shall comply with the
following standards.
      (1)   Location. Signs are only permitted in easements or out lots
specifically designed or designated for such structure. No residential
development entrance sign shall be located in the sight triangle as described
in §
157.158.
      (2)   Height. No residential development entrance sign shall exceed five
feet in height.
      (3)   Sign area. The maximum area of each sign shall be 32 square feet.
      (4)   Materials. The facade of the residential development entrance sign
shall be installed on a masonry base and/or framed by masonry columns. Any
lettering, ornaments or other graphics on the structure must be constructed of
stone or brick, wrought iron, anodized aluminum or engraved into a quality
hardwood like redwood or cedar.
      (5)   Landscaping. The residential development entrance sign shall be
located in a landscaped area. Said landscape area shall be landscaped
appropriately so as to be equally attractive in winter and summer.
      (6)   Illumination. The freestanding residential development sign shall
not be internally illuminated.
   (L)   Message board/dynamic display/digital signs. A dynamic display sign or
digital sign is allowed as a message board.
      (1)   Maximum dynamic display sign area. The dynamic display portion of
the sign may not exceed 50% of the total sign area allowed. The dynamic display
element is incorporated into the sign’s total area. The remainder of the sign
may not have the capability to have dynamic display even if not used. Only one
contiguous dynamic display is allowed on a sign face.
      (2)   General regulations. The following regulations apply to all message
board/dynamic display or digital signs.
         (a)   The images and messages displayed on a dynamic display must have
a minimum dwell time of at least ten seconds and may not contain any movement,
animation, audio, video, pyrotechnics or other special effects.
         (b)   The transition or change from one message to another must occur
in one second or less and involve no animation or special effects.
         (c)   The images and messages displayed must be complete in and of
themselves within the required dwell time.
         (d)   Dynamic displays must be equipped with a default mechanism that
freezes the display in one position or presents a static or blank display if a
malfunction occurs.
         (e)   Dynamic displays may not have a brightness of such intensity or
brilliance that they impair the vision or endanger the safety and welfare of
any pedestrian, cyclist or person operating a motor vehicle.
         (f)   Dynamic displays must be equipped with a light detector/
photocell that automatically adjusts the display’s brightness according to
natural ambient light conditions.
         (g)   The maximum brightness level of a dynamic display may not exceed
5,000 nits (candelas per square meter) during daylight hours or 250 nits
between 30 minutes after sunset and 30 minutes before sunrise, as those times
are determined by the National Weather Service (Actual Time). Brightness must
be measured from the brightest element of the sign’s face. Before the issuance
of a sign permit, the applicant must provide written clarification from the
sign manufacturer that the light intensity has been factory preset so that it
will not exceed 5,000 nits (candelas per square meter).
            1.   For the purpose of verifying compliance with maximum
brightness level requirements, the Zoning Administrator will measure brightness
levels with the dynamic display sign set to run full white copy with a
luminance meter positioned at a location perpendicular to the sign face center.
When taking the luminance reading, the sign face must be the only subject
visible in the viewfinder.
            2.   If the measurement is more than the maximum allowed, the
brightness level is in violation of the ordinance and must be adjusted
downward. Failure to make such adjustments may result in other available
enforcement actions to be taken by the village.
         (h)   1.   Regulations governing dynamic displays are subject to
ongoing monitoring and future modification in the exercise of the village’s
police powers. No vested right is ever created in an existing dynamic display.
If regulations governing operational aspects of dynamic displays (i.e., dwell
time, transitions, illumination/brightness and the like) are modified by the
village, sign owners and operators are required to bring dynamic display
advertising signs into compliance with all applicable dynamic display
regulations.
            2.   Proposals for dynamic displays must be reviewed and approved
by the Community Development Department for compliance with all applicable
building, safety and electrical code. Applications must include appropriate
documentation from a state licensed design professional of the sign structure’s
ability to accommodate the dynamic display technology.
         (i)   A freestanding sign with a dynamic display incorporated into the
sign must not be closer than 500 feet to any other dynamic display sign.
   (M)   I-55 corridor freestanding business identification signs. A larger
freestanding sign shall be allowed with a special use permit in the B-3 and P-
B Zoning Districts for businesses along I-55. Businesses or properties that are
within 150 feet of the I-55 right-of-way (measured from property lines as
defined by the village GIS) shall be allowed the following.
      (1)   Number. Not more than one business identification sign per I-55
frontage shall be permitted per lot.
      (2)   Location. The sign must meet setbacks defined in §
157.161(C)(2).
      (3)   Height. The sign must not exceed 40 feet.
      (4)   Sign area. The sign area must not exceed 200 square feet.
      (5)   Dynamic display. See division (L) above. If a dynamic display
message board is incorporated into the sign, the sign must not be closer than
1,000 feet to any other dynamic display message board sign in the corridor.
      (6)   Sign landscaping. A minimum of two square feet of landscaping area
shall be required for every one square foot of sign surface area provided, but
no sign landscaping shall be less than 50 square feet in area.
      (7)   Decorative sign base. The I-55 business identification sign shall
be designed and constructed with an integral decorative base constructed of
masonry or stone to conceal the sign’s support structure(s) and to visually
compliment the building materials used on the principal building(s) on the lot.
The decorative base shall be equal to or at least 75% of the width of the sign
face. The area of the decorative base shall not be computed as part of the sign
area. The height of the decorative base shall be included when determining the
sign height.
(Prior Code, § 159.129) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.164 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   If a sign requiring a permit under the provisions of this section is to be
placed, constructed, erected or modified on a zoning lot, the owner of the lot
shall secure a sign permit prior to the construction, placement, erection or
modification of such sign in accordance with the requirements of this section.
Furthermore, the property owner shall maintain in force at all times a sign
permit for such signs in accordance with §
157.165. No signs shall be erected in the public rights-of-way except in
accordance with §
157.159 and the permit requirements of §
157.167. No sign permit of any kind shall be issued for an existing or proposed
sign unless such sign is consistent with the requirements of this code
(including those protecting existing signs) in every respect and with the
master sign plan or comprehensive sign plan in effect for the property.
   (A)   Permit procedures. The following procedures shall govern the
application for, and issuance of, all sign permits under this chapter, and the
submission and review of a master or common signage plan.
      (1)   Application. All applications for sign permits of any kind and for
approval of a master sign plan or comprehensive sign plan shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator or their duly authorized agent on the application form
or in accordance with application specifications published by the village.
      (2)   Fees. Each application for a sign permit or for approval of a
master sign plan or comprehensive sign Plan shall be accompanied by the
applicable fees, which shall be established by the governing body of the
village from time to time by resolution.
      (3)   Completeness of application. Within five business days of receiving
an application for a sign permit or for a master sign plan or comprehensive
sign plan, the Zoning Administrator shall review it for completeness. If the
Zoning Administrator finds that it is complete, the application then shall be
processed. If the Zoning Administrator finds it to be incomplete, the Zoning
Administrator shall, within the five business days, send notice to the
applicant of the deficiencies, with appropriate references to the applicable
sections of this chapter.
      (4)   Decisions. Within seven business days of the submission of a
complete application for a sign permit, the Zoning Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Issue the sign permit, if the sign(s) that is the subject of the
application conforms in every respect with the requirements of this section and
of applicable master sign plan or comprehensive sign plan; or
         (b)   Reject the sign permit if the sign(s) that is the subject of the
application fails in any way to conform with the requirements of this section
and of the applicable master sign plan or comprehensive sign plan. In case of
rejection, the Zoning Administrator shall specify in the rejection the section
or sections of this code or applicable plan with which the sign(s) is
inconsistent.
      (5)   Action on plan.
         (a)   On any application for approval of a master sign plan or
comprehensive sign plan, the Zoning Administrator shall take action on the
applicable one of the following dates:
            1.   Fourteen business days after the submission of a complete
application if the application is for signs for existing buildings; or
            2.   On the date of final action on any related application for
building permit, site plan or development plan for signs involving new
construction.
         (b)   On or before such applicable date, the Zoning Administrator
shall either:
            1.   Approve the proposed plan if the sign(s) as shown on the plan
and the plan itself conforms in every respect with the requirements of this
section; or
            2.   Reject the proposed plan if the sign(s) as shown on the plan
or the plan itself fails in any way to conform to the requirements of this
section. In case of a rejection, the Zoning Administrator shall specify in the
rejection the section or sections of this code with which the plan is
inconsistent.
   (B)   Permits to construct or modify signs.
      (1)   Signs to be erected, installed or created only in accordance with a
properly issued and authorized building permit from the Building Inspector.
      (2)   Such permits shall be issued only in accordance with the following
requirements and procedures.
         (a)   Permit for modification of existing signs. No application or
permit shall be required for the replacement or simple face changing of signs
currently established on the zone lot. An application and fee shall be required
if additional signs are being requested or current signs are being changed with
regards to size or height.
         (b)   Permit for new sign. An application for construction, creation
or installation of a new sign or for modification of an existing sign shall be
accompanied by detailed drawing to show the dimensions, design, structure and
location of each particular sign, to the extent that such details are not
contained on a master sign plan or comprehensive sign plan then in effect for
the zone lot. One application and permit may include multiple signs on the same
zone lot.
   (C)   Inspections. The Zoning Administrator shall cause an inspection of the
zone lot for which each permit for a new sign or for modification of an
existing sign during the sixth month after the issuance of such permit or at
such earlier date as the owner may request. If the construction is not
substantially complete at the time of the inspection, the permit shall lapse
and become void. If the construction is complete and in full compliance with
this section and with the building and electrical codes of the village, the
Zoning Administrator shall affix to the premises a permanent symbol identifying
the sign(s) and applicable permit by number or other reference. If the
construction is substantially complete but not in full compliance with this
section and applicable codes of the village, the Zoning Administrator shall
give the owner or applicant notice of the deficiencies and shall allow an
additional 30 days from the date of inspection for the deficiencies to be
corrected. If the deficiencies are not corrected by such date, the permit shall
be voided. If the construction is then complete, the Zoning Administrator shall
affix to the premises the permanent symbol described above.
   (D)   Temporary sign permits. Temporary signs shall be allowed only upon the
issuance of a temporary sign permit, which shall be issued subject to the
following requirements.
      (1)   Term. A temporary sign permit shall allow the use of a temporary
sign for a specified 30-day period.
      (2)   Number of permits. A maximum of one temporary sign permit shall be
issued to the same business license holder in any one calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 159.130) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.165 VIOLATIONS.
   Any of the following shall be a violation of these sections and shall be
subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this ordinance,
and by state law:
   (A)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign or the zone lot on
which the sign is located;
   (B)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign requiring a permit
without such a permit;
   (C)   To install, create, erect or maintain any permanent or temporary sign
within a public right-of-way or on public property except when a license
agreement has been executed by the authority having jurisdiction over said
public right-of-way or public property;
   (D)   To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected or
maintained in violation of this section, or for which the sign permit has
lapsed; or
   (E)   To continue any such violation: each such day of a continued violation
shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty portions of
this section and of this code.
(Prior Code, § 159.131) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015; Ord. 22-1794, passed
9-21-2022) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.166 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation or attempted violation of this section of any condition
or requirement adopted, pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected or abated,
as the case may be, by injunction or other appropriate proceedings pursuant to
village codes and state law. A violation of this section shall be considered a
violation of this code.
   (B)   The remedies of the village shall include the following:
      (1)   Issuing a stop work order for any and all work on any sign on the
same zone lot;
      (2)   Seeking an injunction or other order of restraint or abatement that
requires the removal of the sign(s) or the correction of the nonconformity;
      (3)   Imposing any penalties that can be imposed directly by the village
according to this code, §
157.999;
      (4)   Seeking in court the imposition of any penalties that can be
imposed by such court according to this zoning code;
      (5)   In the case of a sign that poses an immediate danger to the public
health or safety, taking such measures as are available to the village under
the applicable provisions of this zoning code and building codes for such
circumstances; and
      (6)   In the case of a sign is placed in the public right-of-way, village
staff may remove the sign entirely. Each sign removed shall be considered a
separate violation when applying the penalty portions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 159.132) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015)
§ 157.167 PERMIT FEES.
   The Village Board of Trustees shall establish a schedule of fees, charges
and expenses for permits for any inspection, construction, alteration, repair,
demolition or removal of any sign regulated by this chapter. Fees shall be paid
to the village at the time application for a permit is made. The schedule of
fees shall be posted in the office of the Village Clerk and may be altered or
amended from time to time by the Mayor and Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 159.133) (Ord. 15-1190, passed 9-16-2015)
**** NONCONFORMING, BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES ****
§ 157.180 NONCONFORMING, BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This section establishes separate districts, each of which is an appropriate
area for the locations of the uses which are permitted in that district. It is
necessary and consistent with the establishment of those districts that
nonconforming buildings, structures and uses not be permitted to continue
without restrictions. Therefore, the purpose of this subchapter is to provide
for the regulation of nonconforming buildings, structures and uses and to
specify those circumstances and conditions under which those nonconforming
buildings, structures and uses shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 159.140)
§ 157.181 EXISTING USES.
   (A)   Any lawfully established use of a building or land that does not
conform to the use regulations for the district in which it is located shall be
deemed to be a legal nonconforming use and may be continued, except as
otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   Any legal nonconforming building or structure may be continued in use;
provided there are no physical changes other than necessary maintenance and
repair, except as otherwise permitted herein.
   (C)   Any building for which a permit has been lawfully granted may be
completed in accordance with the approved plans; provided construction is
started within 90 days of the adopting of this chapter and diligently
prosecuted to completion. The building shall thereafter be deemed a lawfully
established building(s).
(Prior Code, § 159.141)
§ 157.182 DISCONTINUANCE OF LAND.
   (A)   Whenever any part of a building, structure or land occupied by a
nonconforming use is changed to or replaced, the premises shall not thereafter
be used or occupied by a nonconforming use, even though the building may have
been originally designed and constructed for the prior nonconforming use.
   (B)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building or structure or part
thereof has been discontinued for a period of six consecutive months, or
whenever there is evidence of a clear intent on the part of the owner to
abandon a nonconforming use, this use shall not, after being discontinued or
abandoned, be re-established. The use of the premises thereafter shall be in
conformity with the regulations of the district it is located in.
   (C)   Where no enclosed building is involved, discontinuance of a
nonconforming use for a period of three consecutive months shall constitute
abandonment, and shall not thereafter be used in a nonconforming manner.
   (D)   A nonconforming use not authorized by the provisions of the zoning
code now in effect shall be discontinued. (See § 157.183 for time of removal.)
   (E)   In no event shall an owner of a nonconforming driveway located within
a zoned residential district be required to remove the driveway so long as the
owner maintains the driveway in good order and repair. The owner shall be
permitted to maintain and repair the driveway but may not expand its use or
otherwise enlarge its size.
(Prior Code, § 159.142) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.183 TERMINATION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The period of time during which the following nonconforming uses of
buildings, structures or land may continue or remain shall be limited from the
effective date of this chapter and section, or amendment thereto, which causes
the use to be nonconforming.
   (B)   Every nonconforming use shall be completely removed from the premises
at the expiration of the period of time specified below:
      (1)   Any nonconforming use of a building or structure having an assessed
valuation not in excess of $500 shall be removed after two years;
      (2)   All nonconforming advertising devices, such as pennants, flags,
movable signs or portable outdoor displays, in any business district shall be
removed after two years;
      (3)   Any nonconforming signs and any and all billboards and outdoor
advertising structures shall be removed after ten years;
      (4)   Any nonconforming use of land where no enclosed building is
involved, or where the only buildings employed are accessory or incidental to
the use, or where the use is maintained in connection with a conforming
building, shall be removed after a period of two years;
      (5)   Any nonconforming house trailer(s) shall be removed after a period
of ten years; and
      (6)   In all residential districts, any use lawfully existing at the
adoption of this chapter, but permitted only in the business districts or in
the manufacturing/industrial districts, and which use is located in a building,
all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for residential
accessory purpose, shall be entirely discontinued and shall thereafter cease
operation in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Description of Use                  Amortization Period
Uses permitted only in the Business Ten years from the date of the adoption
District                            of this chapter
Uses permitted only in the          Eight years from the date of the
Manufacturing District              adoption of this chapter
 
(Prior Code, § 159.143) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.184 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary non-structural repairs and
incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify the nonconforming use.
   (B)   No structural alteration shall be made in a building or other
structure containing a nonconforming use, except in the following situations:
      (1)   When the alteration is required by law;
      (2)   When the alteration will actually result in elimination of the
nonconforming use; and
      (3)   When a building is in a residential district containing residential
nonconforming uses, it may be altered in any way to improved livability;
provided no structural alterations shall be made which would increase the
number of dwelling units or the bulk of the building.
(Prior Code, § 159.144) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.185 DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION.
   If a building or other structure containing a nonconforming use is damaged
or destroyed by any means to the extent of 50% of more of its replacement value
at the time, the building or other structure can be rebuilt or used thereafter
only for a conforming use and in compliance with the provisions of the district
in which it is located. In the event the damage or destruction is less than 50%
of its replacement value, based upon prevailing costs, the building may then be
restored to its original condition and the occupancy or use of the building may
be continued which existed at the time of the partial destruction. In either
event, restoration or repair of the building or other structure must be started
within a period of six months from the date of damage or destruction, and
diligently prosecuted to completion.
(Prior Code, § 159.145) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.186 ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS.
   (A)   A nonconforming building may be enlarged or extended only if the
entire building is thereafter devoted to a conforming use, and is made to
conforming use, and is made to conform to all the regulations of the district
in which it is located, except as provided in §
157.187.
   (B)   No building partially occupied by a nonconforming use shall be altered
in such a way as to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space occupied
by the nonconforming use, except as provided in §
157.187.
   (C)   No nonconforming use may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to
occupy any required usable open space, or any land beyond the boundaries of the
zoning lot as it existed on the effective date of this chapter, or to displace
any conforming use in the same building or on some parcel of land, except as
provided in §
157.187.
   (D)   A building or structure which is nonconforming with respect to yards,
floor area ratio or any other element of bulk shall not be altered or expanded
in any manner which would increase the degree or extent of its nonconformity
with respect to the bulk regulations for the district in which it is located,
except as provided in §
157.187.
(Prior Code, § 159.146) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.187 EXCEPTIONS.
   Wherever a lawfully existing building or other structure otherwise conforms
to the use regulations of the district in which it is located, but is
nonconforming only in the particular manner herein specified, the building and
use thereof shall be exempt from the requirements of §§
157.183 and
157.184. This section does not nullify the requirements of §
157.185, where a nonconforming building or structure is damaged or destroyed:
   (A)   In any residential district where a dwelling is nonconforming only as
to the number of dwelling units it contains; provided no such building shall be
altered in any way so as to increase the number of dwelling units therein;
   (B)   In any residential district where a use permitted in the B-1 District
occupies ground floor space within a multiple family dwelling located on a
corner lot;
   (C)   In any business or manufacturing district, where the use is less
distant from a residence district than that specified in the regulations for
the district in which it is located; and
   (D)   In any district where an established building, structure or use is
nonconforming with respect to the standards prescribed herein for any of the
following:
      (1)   Floor area ratio (F.A.R.);
      (2)   Lot area per dwelling unit;
      (3)   Yards, front, side, rear or transitional;
      (4)   Off-street parking and loading;
      (5)   Lot area;
      (6)   Building height; and
      (7)   Gross floor area.
(Prior Code, § 159.147) Penalty, see §
157.999
**** PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT ****
§ 157.200 GENERAL - PUD.
   (A)   Definition. A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT is defined as an area of land
developed as a “special use” and as a single entity for a number of land uses,
including, but not limited to, residential, commercial, institutional, research
and industrial.
   (B)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of the planned unit development
regulations are to encourage and promote a more creative, imaginative and an
environmentally sensitive design for the development of land by allowing a
greater freedom and/or flexibility than is possible under the precise and rigid
requirements of conventional zoning ordinances. The planned unit development is
therefor accomplished through the use of objective standards which shall
establish goals and criteria for judgment rather than the application of a
fixed formula. To this intent, it shall allow for the diversification in the
land uses permitted and variations to the relationships of land uses,
structures, open spaces and heights of structures in particular developments
that are understood to be conceived and implemented as a comprehensive and
cohesive unified project, while still requiring substantial compliance to the
master plan for community development. It is further intended to encourage more
imaginative site planning; contributing to a more rational and economic
relationship to public services, while permitting optimum development of the
land; and whereas it shall encourage and facilitate the conservation of open
lands, natural site features, such as: woods, streams, wetlands, floodplains
and the like, as an integral component of a balanced ecology between nature and
the development, which will provide for exceptional urban amenities and higher
quality developments.
   (C)   Permitted location. A planned unit development shall be considered as
a special use in any residential, business, office, industrial or manufacturing
zoning district.
   (D)   Permitted uses. In a planned unit development, the following uses may
be permitted subject to the criteria as established; provided that no use shall
be permitted except in conformity with a specific and precise development plan
pursuant to the procedural and regulatory provisions as hereinafter set forth:
      (1)   Residential dwelling units in detached, semi-detached, attached,
multi-storied structures or any combination thereof; and
      (2)   Nonresidential uses as follows:
         (a)   Religious, cultural, recreational and educational uses;
         (b)   Business uses permitted in the B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping
District;
         (c)   Manufacturing/Industrial use permitted in the M-R Manufacturing/
Research District;
         (d)   Business parks as permitted in the PB Planned Business District;
and
         (e)   Utility and municipal uses.
   (E)   Special uses. The planned unit development is in itself a special use,
where the following uses may be allowed by a “special use permit” in accordance
with the provisions of §
157.226, and provided the uses are located on a lot of not less than ten acres
with a minimum width of 400 feet and a minimum depth of 400 feet. If a special
use permit is granted and portions of the property are sold reducing the lot
size to less than four acres or reducing the width or depth of the property to
less than 400 feet, the special use permit will be deemed to have been revoked
concurrent to that action:
      (1)   Special uses as listed in any residential district;
      (2)   Special uses as listed in the B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping
District; and
      (3)   Special uses as listed in the M-R Manufacturing/Research District.
   (F)   Temporary uses. Upon application to and issuance by the Zoning
Administrator of a permit thereof, the following use may be operated as a
temporary use: processing, screening, washing yards and plants of the quasi-
temporary nature connected with the construction of roads, which are normally
removed when a specific purpose is completed, are permitted under this
classification after a permit is obtained from the Building Inspector. This
permit shall be effective for a period not to exceed six continuous months and
shall not be renewed for more than one successive period at the same location.
   (G)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses may include the following:
      (1)   Accessory uses, buildings or other structures and devices
customarily incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special
use may be permitted; provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same parcel, do not include structures or structural
features inconsistent with the permitted or special use and as regulated by §§
157.027 and
157.003 under “accessory building or use;” and
      (2)   Accessory uses may include the following:
         (a)   Off-street parking facilities as regulated by §§
157.120 through
157.126; and
         (b)   Signs, in accordance with regulations set forth in §§
157.155 through
157.167.
(Prior Code, § 159.150) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.201 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   In the development of a planned unit development, certain standards
must be adhered to when designing the “general and final development plans.”
   (B)   Those standards are as follows.
      (1)   As a basis for determining the acceptability of a planned unit
development proposal, specific consideration shall be given as to whether or
not it is consistent with the “definition” and the “intent and purpose” of this
section; that it has been prepared with competent professional advice and
guidance in terms of planning, architecture and engineering; and that it
produces significant benefits in terms of improved environmental design.
      (2)   Specific lot size, density, open space, building location, height,
size, floor area, building setbacks, parking and other such requirements shall
be based upon determination as to their appropriateness to the land uses and/or
structures as they relate to the total environmental concept of the planned
unit development, and that they are consistent with the criteria set forth in
this section and with those generally accepted as standards necessary to insure
the protection of the general public health, safety and welfare. Such
requirements shall be made a part of the approved “final development plan” and
shall be, along with the plan itself, construed and enforced as a part of this
chapter.
      (3)   Engineering and subdivision design standards relative to street
type, location and width, sidewalks, street lighting, infrastructure
improvements, lot arrangement and other elements of site design shall be based
upon the submission of detailed engineering drawings with standards showing the
effectiveness of each element as it relates to the total plan. It is necessary
for the plans to be consistent and compatibility with the existing land use
patterns in the areas peripheral to the development. In no case shall minimal
construction standards be less than those necessary to protect the general
public health, safety and welfare. To this intent, the specific provisions of
the “development regulations, Chapter 156.” Precise standards proposed for the
development shall be made a part of the approved “final development plan” and
shall be construed to be and enforced as part of this chapter.
      (4)   The following objectives shall be obtained through the use of the
planned unit development policies and procedures:
         (a)   To permit a maximum choice in the types of environment available
to the public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the
strict application of this and other village regulations pertaining to land
development;
         (b)   To promote a creative approach to the use of land and related
physical facilities that results in better design and development, with the
inclusion of aesthetic amenities;
         (c)   To combine and coordinate architectural styles, building forms
and building relationships with a possible mixing of different urban uses in an
innovative design;
         (d)   To encourage a pattern of development to preserve natural
vegetation, topographic and geological features and environmentally appropriate
features;
         (e)   To provide for the prevention and control of soil erosion,
surface flooding and the preservation of subsurface water;
         (f)   To create a method for the permanent preservation of common open
space for the continued use and enjoyment of the residents of the development;
         (g)   To provide for more usable and suitably located recreation
facilities, schools and other public and private facilities;
         (h)   To promote the more efficient use of the land, resulting in more
economically feasible networks of utilities, streets and other facilities;
         (i)   To encourage a land use which promotes the public health,
safety, comfort, morals and welfare; and
         (j)   To create a method for the permanent preservation of
architectural and historic landmarks.
      (5)   The planned unit development is intended to provide for
developments incorporating a single type or a variety of related uses which are
planned and developed as a unit. The planned unit development should provide
amenities not otherwise required by law, and often establishes facilities and
open space greater than the minimums required by law.
      (6)   The planned unit development may consist of conventionally
subdivided lots to be sold, unsubdivided single ownership lots, separate
condominium ownership of structures and/or other ownership methods that are
considered appropriate for the subdivision of property. Also, the development
shall provide a plat of subdivision, which shall establish the location and
extent of the features that will be incorporated into the planned unit
development.
(Prior Code, § 159.151) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006)
§ 157.202 BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Single-family. Single-family dwelling units shall comply with the
requirements of §
157.075 E-R Estate Residential; §
157.076 R-1 Single-Family Residential; §
157.077 R-2 Single-Family Residential; §
157.078 R-3 Single-Family Residential; §
157.079 R-4 Single-Family Residential; and §
157.080 R-5 Single-Family Residential Districts.
   (B)   Townhouses and attached residential. Townhouses and attached
residential dwelling units shall comply with the requirements of §
157.081 R-6 Attached Residential District.
   (C)   Multiple-family. Multiple-family dwelling units shall comply with the
requirements of §
157.082 R-7 Multiple-Family District.
   (D)   Commercial/retail/business. Commercial/retail/ business units shall
comply with the requirements of §§
157.095 through
157.100.
   (E)   Industrial/manufacturing. Industrial/ manufacturing units shall comply
with the requirements of §§
157.102 through
157.105.
   (F)   Accessory buildings/structures. Accessory buildings or structures
shall comply with the requirements of §
157.027.
   (G)   Height of buildings. The height of any building or structure to be
erected or structurally altered shall not exceed three and one-half stories,
nor 50 feet in height. Where additional building height is being considered,
the setback or the required yard shall be increased by one-half foot for each
foot of building height in excess of 50 feet.
   (H)   Land coverage and minimum lot size.
      (1)   Maximum land coverage. The maximum ground area that may be occupied
by all of the buildings and structures shall not exceed 30% of the total ground
area of the planned unit development.
      (2)   Single-family residential lot size. Single-family dwellings shall
be located on individual lots whose area and dimensions are not less than 80%
of the minimum lot area and dimensions required by the underlying zoning
district(s).
      (3)   Townhouses and attached residential lot size. Townhouses and
attached residential shall be located on tracts containing not less than the
minimum required by §
157.081 R-6 District lot area requirements, exclusive of any area intended for
public use. Such tracts shall contain no other uses except accessory buildings
and automobile parking that are accessory to the dwelling units located
thereon.
      (4)   Multiple-family residential lot size. Multi-family dwellings,
except townhomes, shall be located on tracts containing not less than the
minimum area required by §
157.082 R-7 Multiple-Family Residential, exclusive of any area intended for
public use. Such tracts shall contain no other uses except accessory buildings
and automobile parking that are accessory to the dwelling units located
thereon. For multi-family dwelling buildings exceeding two stories in height,
the required land area may be reduced by an amount equal to 50% of the floor
area of all stories used for dwelling units above the first two stories.
   (I)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Setbacks - single-family residential. In Single-Family Residential
Districts (E-R, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5), the same setbacks shall apply. In
no case shall a building be closer to any other building than be the minimum
required in the district or one-half the height of the building, whichever is
greater. No buildings shall be located closer to the rights-of-way or property
lines than 25 feet or one-half the height of the building whichever is greater.
      (2)   Setbacks - multiple-family residential. In Multiple-Family
Residential Districts (R-6 and R-7), the same setbacks shall apply. In no case
shall a building be closer to any other building than be the minimum required
in the district or one-half the height of the building, whichever is greater.
No buildings shall be located closer to the rights-of-way or property lines
than 25 feet or one-half the height of the building whichever is greater.
      (3)   Setbacks - commercial/retail/ business. Yard areas and setback
distances for commercial/retail/business buildings and for buildings in the PB
District shall be as required in the respective districts. No building shall be
located closer to an adjoining property line than the distance which would be
required for a building in the adjoining district, or less than one-half the
height of the building, whichever is greater. No building shall be located
closer to the right-of-way line of the street than 25 feet nor less than one-
half the height of the building, whichever is greater.
   (J)   Intensity and character of land use. In a planned unit development,
the suitability of the type and character of uses proposed and their intensity
and arrangement on the site shall be based upon the following standards:
      (1)   Compatibility. Compatibility to the physical nature of the site,
with particular concern for conservation of natural features (i.e., tree
growth, streams, wetlands, geological features, natural resources and the
like); attention to the suitability of the soils for the uses proposed
development; preservation of open space; and for the careful shaping of terrain
to minimize scarring, ensure suitable drainage; and for the preservation of
natural terrain wherever appropriate;
      (2)   Attractiveness. Achievement of an attractive environment
appropriate to the uses proposed, compatibility with existing development in
the surrounding area and with official development plans for the area, with
particular concern for preservation of ecological and economic balance;
      (3)   Local services impact. Capacity to be effectively serviced without
creating a demand on schools, sanitary sewer, water and stormwater management,
recreational areas, streets and highways or other public services substantially
in conflict with that anticipated by the appropriate jurisdictional plans for
such services or which could not be provided without adverse effect upon the
jurisdictional area involved;
      (4)   Local demands. Adequate provisions for the practical functioning of
the development in terms of circulation, parking, emergency services, mail and
delivery service, street maintenance and utility service; and
      (5)   Public uses. Adequate provisions for appropriate sites for schools,
parks, streets and highways and other public facilities serving the proposed
development.
   (K)   Common open space, park or other amenities. In a planned unit
development, the provision for common open space, park land or other amenity
area serving the recreational aesthetic needs of the people in the development
may be required as a condition to granting the exceptions to the normal
requirements for development under ordinary zoning standards. Such requirements
shall be based upon appropriate relationship to the character of the
development, the need created for such area by the development and the
suitability or potential area for such use.
      (1)   Landscaping/naturalistic grounds. Such areas shall include
landscaping or naturalistic grounds, water bodies or specific recreational
activity facilities, within the planned unit development boundaries. These
shall be of such size, shape, character and location as makes them practical
recreational amenities, readily accessible and available for use by all of the
residents of the development and/or by the general public. They shall be
developed so that they are a contribution to the environmental quality of the
development. Such space may not be used for parking, service or maintenance
facilities, except as required for maintenance of the common open space. Within
these areas, common recreational buildings or structures of a noncommercial
nature may be provided as noted hereinafter.
      (2)   Permanent open space. Adequate provisions shall be made for the
establishment of permanent preservation and maintenance of such common open
space, park land or amenity areas either by private reservation of dedication
to the public.
         (a)   Dedication shall not be mandatory, but where public ownership is
desired by the village, reservation for such purposes may be required by the
village.
         (b)   In the case of private open space reservation, the open space to
be reserved shall be protected against building development by conveying to the
village as part of the conditions for project approval an open space easement
over such areas restricting the area against any future building or use except
as is consistent with that of providing landscaped open space for the aesthetic
and recreational, cultural or other purpose compatible with the open space
objective may be permitted only where specifically authorized as part of the
final development plan of subsequent amendments with the expressed approval of
the village Planning and Zoning Commission following approval of building, site
and operational plans.
         (c)   The care and maintenance of private open space reservations
shall be assured by the establishment of appropriate management organization
for the project. The manner in which to assure the maintenance and assessment
of such cost to individual properties shall be determined prior to the approval
of the final development plans and shall be included in the conditions of
approval and in the title to each property.
         (d)   Ownership and tax liability of private open space reservation
shall be established in a manner acceptable to the village and made a part of
the conditions of the final development plan approval.
         (e)   Any areas of open space, such dedicated for passive actives
shall be developed with a walking, jogging and/or biking pathway with a minimum
width of eight feet and construction with a minimum base course prescribed by
the Recreation Department.
         (f)   Any individual parcel of land dedicated for use as a public park
shall have an area of not less than one acre (43,560 square feet), and a
minimum frontage of not less than 150 feet across. The boundary of a public
park shall not be less than 50 feet from any residential building.
   (L)   Additional land uses.
      (1)    Commercial/retail/business. Commercial/retail/business land uses,
in a planned unit development, shall comply in general with the provision of §§
157.029 through
157.034 and
157.095 through
157.100.
      (2)   Office/warehouse. Office/warehouse land uses, in a planned unit
development, shall comply, in general, with the provisions of §§
157.029 through
157.034 and
157.102 through
157.105.
      (3)   Industrial/manufacturing. Industrial/manufacturing land uses, in a
planned unit development, shall comply, in general, with the provisions of §§
157.029 through
157.034 and
157.102 through
157.105.
(Prior Code, § 159.152) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.203 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting procedures.
      (1)   Prior to the official submittal of an application for consideration
of a planned unit development, the applicant can request a meeting with the
Planning and Zoning Commission for a conceptual discussion as to the scope and
the nature of the proposed development.
      (2)   After this meeting, the applicant shall submit to the village the
following information:
         (a)   General site information. General site data regarding existing
site conditions, land characteristics, available community facilities,
utilities, existing covenants and other related information;
         (b)   Sketch plan. A sketch plan showing the proposed location and
extent of the land uses, streets, lots, proposed master utility plan (i.e.,
water, sanitary, storm) and other features;
         (c)   Legal description. Legal description and land survey of the site
proposed for the development; and
         (d)   Additional information. Additional information may be requested
by the Planning and Zoning Commission so as to clarify various aspects of the
proposed planned unit development. This additional data might include, but is
not limited to, traffic, tax and market analysis of the development, pertinent
environmental information and conceptual renderings of structures with the
development.
   (B)   Application procedures. The subsequent procedures shall be followed
when making application for a planned unit development.
      (1)   Special use permit. A planned unit development shall be granted as
a special use in accord with the procedures and standards of §
157.226. Prior to the consideration of the planned unit development by the
Village President and Board of Trustees, all hearings and recommendations as
are required by this chapter shall be executed exclusively by the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
      (2)   Application form. Application shall be made on forms provided by
the village and shall be accompanied by the required plats and documents. Each
step shall be reviewed and certified by the Planning and Zoning Commission as
being in accordance with the planned unit development requirements.
      (3)   Application fees. A non-refundable fee shall be levied at the time
of application, in accordance with §
157.228. This fee is in addition to any and all other fees as may be required.
Moreover, the applicant shall be responsible for any engineering, consulting,
transcript and other review costs as may be incurred by the village in the
review of any and all plans.
(Prior Code, § 159.153) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.204 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   General requirements. A general development plan for the proposed
planned unit development shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for a public hearing, report and recommendations to the Village
President and Board of Trustees. Meetings with the other taxing bodies affected
by the development will be necessary to fulfill the requirements of the general
development plan review. The general development plan and supporting data shall
be in accord with the stipulations of this section.
   (B)   Documentation. Thirty-five copies, not to exceed 24 inches by 36
inches, and one reduced copy, not less than 11 inches by 17 inches, shall be
submitted of the general development plan and supporting data to the village
for review by the village staff and the Planning and Zoning Commission for
certification of conformity with these regulations and for comments,
recommendations and suggestions regarding the overall design.
   (C)   Public hearings. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a
public hearing on the application for a special use permit and the general
development plan under a planned unit development. Notice of the hearing,
containing the location and brief description of the proposed development,
which shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in accordance
with municipal and statutory requirements.
   (D)   Planning and Zoning Commission action.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning Commission to
submit its report on each such application to the Village Board of Trustees,
within 60 days following the final adjournment of the aforesaid public hearing
thereon, but failure to so submit such report within said period of time shall
result in no impairment of the legality thereof nor of any action taken thereon
or in connection therewith.
      (2)   (a)   Such report shall recommend:
            1.   Approval of the general development plan as submitted;
            2.   Approval subject to specific modifications or conditions; or
            3.   Denial of the general development plan, which such report
shall include findings of fact and shall specify the reasons for the Planning
and Zoning Commissions recommendation.
         (b)   No special use permit for a planned unit development shall be
recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission unless they have found the
following to be evident:
            1.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special
use/planned unit development will not be unreasonably detrimental to or
endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or general welfare;
            2.   The special use/planned unit development will not be injurious
to the use and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the
purpose already permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property
values within the neighborhood;
            3.   The establishment of the special use/planned unit development
will not impede the normal and orderly development and improvement of
surrounding property for uses permitted in the district;
            4.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage or other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
            5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
ingress or egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public
streets; and
            6.   The special use/planned unit development shall, in all other
respects, conform to the applicable regulations of the district in which it is
located, except as those regulations may in each instance be modified by the
Village Board pursuant to the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (E)   Village Board of Trustees. The Village President and Board of
Trustees, after receipt of the general development plan from the Planning and
Zoning Commission, shall, within 60 days after its first regularly scheduled
workshop meeting, approve, modify or disapprove the general development plan.
In the case of approval, or approval with modifications, the Village President
and Board of Trustees may require special conditions to ensure conformance with
the intent of all comprehensive plan elements and the stated purposes of the
planned unit development provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Approval of the general development plan shall not constitute
approval of the final development plan; rather, it shall be deemed an
expression of approval to the layout submitted on the general development plan
as a guide to the preparation of the final development plan which will be
submitted for approval of the requirements of these regulations and any
conditions placed upon the general development plan, if any. The final
development plan shall be approved if it conforms with the general development
plan for the planned unit development.
      (2)   The general and final development plans may be filed and approved
simultaneously, or the final plan may be filed and approved without a general
development plan, if all of the land is to be developed at one time, and if all
requirements herein are met.
      (3)   No building permits shall be issued for any structure until the
approval of the “final development plan” and “final plat of subdivision” by the
Village Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Content - general development plan. The following information shall be
required unless specifically waived by the Planning and Zoning Commission. A
drawing of the planned unit development shall be prepared to a scale of not
less than one inch equals 100 feet, and shall show such designations as
proposed street names, all buildings and their use, common open space,
recreation facilities, parking areas, service areas and other facilities to
indicate the character of the proposed development. The submission may be
composed of one or more sheets and/or drawings, and shall include the
following.
      (1)   Land uses. The pattern of proposed land use including shape, size
and arrangement of proposed use areas, density and environmental character, and
the relationship to surrounding uses;
      (2)   Boundary survey. Boundary survey shall have an accurate legal
description of the property area, boundary lines showing bearings, distances
and property markers of the areas to be subdivided;
      (3)   Easements. Easements with their general location, width and
purpose;
      (4)   Street, rights-of-way. Streets on and adjacent to the tract with
their street name, right-of-way width, existing or proposed centerline
elevations, pavement type, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, culverts and the like;
      (5)   Utilities, easements. Utilities on and adjacent to the tract with
location, size and invert elevation of sanitary and storm sewers, location and
size of water mains. Location of gas mains, fire hydrants, electric and
telephone lines and street lights. Direction and distance to and size of
nearest usable water mains and sewers adjacent to the tract, showing invert
elevation of sewers (the location of gas, electric and telephone lines may be
deferred to the final development plan by the Planning and Zoning Commission);
      (6)   Site elevations and contours. Elevations and contours shall be
shown at one foot intervals, less if deemed necessary by the village staff and/
or the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (7)   Subsurface site conditions. Subsurface conditions with location and
results of tests made to generally ascertain subsurface soil, rock and
groundwater conditions;
      (8)   Additional site conditions. Other conditions on the property, such
as watercourses, floodplains, marshes, rock outcrops, wooded areas, isolated
preservable trees one foot or more in diameter, houses, barns, accessory
buildings and other significant features;
      (9)   Additional adjacent conditions. Conditions on adjacent lands with
the approximate direction and gradient of ground slope which can be interpreted
from U.S.G.S. maps, including any embankments or retaining walls; character and
location of major buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other nearby
nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent unplatted
land; for adjacent platted land, refer to subdivision plat by name, and show
approximate percent build-up, typical lot size and dwelling type;
      (10)   Existing zoning. Zoning on and adjacent to the property;
      (11)   Public improvements. Proposed public improvements such as
highways, streets or other major improvements planned by public authorities for
future construction on, near or affecting the tract;
      (12)   Open space amenities. The location, size and character of
recreational and open space areas designated for private reservation or
reserved or dedicated for public uses such as schools, park, greenway and the
like or any other special amenity to be provided shall be indicated;
      (13)   General location of buildings. General location, purpose and
height, in feet and stories, of each building other than single-family
residence on individually platted lots; and
      (14)   Map data. Map data to include the name of the development, name of
the site planner, north point and scale, date of preparation and acreage of
site.
   (G)   Planned unit development characteristics. Explanation of the character
of the planned unit development and the manner in which it has been planned to
take advantage of the flexibility of these regulations, and referencing the
general benefits that will accrue to the public as a result of the development.
   (H)   Statement of ownership. A statement of present and proposed ownership
of all land within the project, including present tract designation according
to official records in the Offices of the County Recorder.
   (I)   Owner(s) name(s). The names and addresses of the persons to whom the
notice of the hearing to be held by the Planning and Zoning Commission should
be sent, including the subdivider the designer/land planner of the development,
and the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to be platted.
   (J)   Schedule of development. Development schedule indicating the
following:
      (1)   Estimated stated in which the project will be built, with emphasis
on area, density (gross and residential), land use and public facilities such
as open space to be developed with each stage. Overall design of each stage
shall be shown on the plat and through supporting graphic material;
      (2)   Estimated dates for the beginning and completion of each stage of
the development; and
      (3)   If different land use types are to be included within the planned
unit development, the schedule must include the mix of uses to be built in each
stage.
   (K)   Covenants and restrictions. Proposed agreements, provision, covenants
and/or restrictions which will govern the use, maintenance and continued
protection of the planned unit development and any of its common open space.
   (L)   Densities and intensities. Provide preliminary statistics on the
proposed gross and residential density, including the number of dwelling units
by type and bedroom, and the number of buildings by type. This information
should be submitted in conformity with the planned unit development staging
(i.e., densities at various stages), as well as for the overall project.
   (M)   Nonresidential uses. Information on nonresidential and ancillary uses
based on the type and amount within the residential development, including the
amount of common open space.
   (N)   Service facilities. Provide information on all service facilities and
off-street parking facilities.
   (O)   Architectural plans/renderings. Preliminary architectural plans and
concepts for all primary buildings shall be submitted in sufficient detail to
permit an understanding of the style of the development, the general design of
the buildings and the number, size and type of dwelling units.
   (P)   Landscape plans. Preliminary landscape plans and concepts for plant
materials, earth sculpturing, berming and aesthetic features shall be submitted
in sufficient detail to understand the style of the development.
   (Q)   Utility facilities plan. Preliminary engineering plans shall be
submitted which will indicate that the proposed development can be adequately
serviced by the following:
      (1)   Streets, including classification, width of rights-of-way, width of
pavement and typical cross-section details;
      (2)   Sanitary sewers;
      (3)   Storm sewers and stormwater management techniques;
      (4)   Water supply system; and
      (5)   Street lighting program.
   (R)   School impact. Provide information on the student load and financial
impact on the local school districts, including estimated scheduling of
potential students.
   (S)   Tax impact study. Provide information on the estimated assessment and
distribution of taxes to be generated by the proposed project, and the cost to
the various taxing bodies to provide necessary services to the project.
   (T)   Economic impact and feasibility study. In order to minimize the
possibility of adverse effects resulting from failure to implement an approved
final development plan from the economic impact of its development upon the
community, the proponents of the planned unit development shall provide
satisfactory evidence of their economic feasibility to finance the project and
that the economic prosperity of the area or the values of surrounding
properties would not be adversely affected as compared to the impact of
development which might reasonably have been anticipated under the zoning in
effect at the time the planned unit development was proposed.
   (U)   Traffic impact study. Provide information on the adequacy of the local
transportation and thoroughfare system to handle anticipated traffic
development. This analysis shall include the anticipated impact for both on-
site and community (off-site) transportation systems.
   (V)   Environmental impact study. Provide information on the relationship
between the proposed land uses and the natural environment of the area,
including, but not limited to, the soils, geology, hydrology and atmosphere.
The “Natural Resource Opinions” of the United States Soil and Water
Conservation District and/or the “Natural Resource Opinions Report” of the Will
and South Cook Soil and Water Conservation District may be utilized as a part
of these studies.
   (W)   Objectives. Provide a statement of planning objectives to be achieved
by the planned unit development. This statement should include a description of
the proposed development and the rationale behind the assumptions and site plan
of the developer.
   (X)   Other information. Provide any other information that the Planning and
Zoning Commission may reasonably require for their evaluation of the proposed
planned unit development.
(Prior Code, § 159.154) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.205 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN (FDP).
   A final development plan for implementation for all or phases of the planned
unit development may be submitted concurrently with the general development
plan or within a reasonable period of time as determined by the Planning and
Zoning Commission. The purpose of the final development plan is to designate,
with greater detail, the divisions of the land into common open space, home
sites, exact building locations and any other subdivided tracts of land in
accordance with the general development plan. If the final development plan,
which the Planning and Zoning Commission determines to be a reasonable phase of
the total plan, has not been submitted within a reasonable time, the Planning
and Zoning Commission may recommend revocation of the general development plan
to the Village Board of Trustees.
   (A)   The required procedure for approval of the final plan shall be as
follows.
      (1)   A final planned unit development plan and other supporting data
required for approval shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission
in accordance with the provisions for final plan submission. Supporting data
shall show, in detail, the design, precise location and use of all buildings,
and overall land development, as well as such additional information as the
Planning and Zoning Commission may require.
      (2)   The final plan and supporting data shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for certification that the final plan is in
conformity with the approved preliminary plan. It shall be the duty of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, within 30 days following the last Planning and
Zoning Commission meeting wherein the final planned unit development plan was
considered, to recommend approval or disapproval, and reasons therefor, to the
Village Board.
      (3)   The Village Board, after receipt of the final plan, shall approve
or disapprove the final plan, and shall, within 60 days after its first
regularly scheduled meeting, pass an ordinance authorizing the planned unit
development as a special use and allowing the issuance of all necessary
permits, if approved. Permits are to be issued only after the final planned
unit development plan and supporting data have been recorded with the County
Recorder of Deeds, and shall be issued in full conformance with this chapter.
      (4)   The final development plan must be submitted for approval in
accordance with the agreed scheduling. The first final plan must be submitted
not later than one year from the approval of the preliminary development plan,
and construction as authorized by the issuance of a building permit must begin
within six months of the date of the filing of the final development plan
dealing with such construction; in the event that same is not done, the planned
unit development special use shall be null and void, and the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall initiate such action to revoke the PUD/SUP. If behind
with agreed schedule filed with the final plan, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may either extend the schedule period or shall initiate action to
revoke the planned unit development special use. Extensions in the building
schedule for one-year periods may be recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and granted by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The final development plan shall conform substantially to the general
development plan as approved. The final development plan shall include the
following detailed construction and engineering plans and related detailed
documents, suitable for recording with the County Recorder of Deeds, and shall
be prepared in accordance with the following general requirements:
      (1)   An accurate legal description and map of the area covered by the
plan, including the relationship to the total general development plan, at a
scale of one inch equals 200 feet with contour lines at two foot intervals;
      (2)   If subdivided lands are included, a subdivision plat of all
subdivided lands in the same form and meeting the requirements for subdivision
plats;
      (3)   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided use
area, including common open space;
      (4)   Designation of the exact location of all buildings to be
constructed, other than single-family detached residences on individually
platted lots;
      (5)   Certificates, seals and signatures required for the dedication of
lands and recording the documents;
      (6)   All common open space shall be conveyed to the homeowners’
association, including condominium owners, of the buildings within the planned
unit development. This conveyance to contain covenants running with the land
making those owners jointly responsible for the care, upkeep and maintenance of
all common open space. This covenant shall further provide that the village,
its successors and assigns shall have the right to bring any action at law or
in equity to assess fines for the noncompliance with applicable municipal codes
or to compel the owners to provide such maintenance as may be required;
      (7)   All public facilities and improvements made necessary as a result
of the planned unit development shall be either constructed in advance of the
approval of the final plat; or, in lieu of that, escrow deposits, letter of
credit (at 125% of proposed improvement value) or commitments from banks or
other financial institutions, in a form acceptable to the village, shall be
posted by the sponsors of the planned unit development to guarantee
construction of the required improvements;
      (8)   The pattern of public and private roads, driveways, walkways and
parking facilities and proposed design and construction standards;
      (9)   Detailed lot layout and subdivision platting, where required, in
compliance with the final platting procedures in Chapter 156, development
regulations of the village;
      (10)   The arrangement of building groups, other than single-family
detached residential development;
      (11)   Minimum front, side and rear yard dimensions for all lots for
single-family dwellings and for lots or tracts for other residential buildings
intended for separate ownership;
      (12)   Floor plans and elevations or perspectives showing the
architectural treatment of all buildings other than single-family detached
residential;
      (13)   Statistical tabulations showing the apportionment of land uses,
the density of residential use, the ratio of apartments by bedroom count, the
percentage of ground cover by buildings, the floor area ratio and the parking
ratio;
      (14)   A listing of all buildings, other than residential, showing
building height, specific occupancies together with gross floor area of each
occupancy and floor area devoted to retail sales or service for each occupancy.
A schedule of parking requirements and such information as may be available
concerning anticipated lessees and tenants of the proposed buildings;
      (15)   Master grading plan and water shed plan;
      (16)   Engineering plans for sanitary sewer, storm sewer and potable
water system;
      (17)   Plans of off-street parking facilities, showing pavement, ingress
and egress, parking stalls, traffic patterns, drainage and other required
details;
      (18)   Location of all exterior lighting facilities and a complete
description and technical data applicable to all exterior lighting fixtures and
standards;
      (19)   Boundaries of all public parks, other common use open spaces,
school, church sites and the like;
      (20)   Location and description of all recreation facilities to be
provided by the developer, indicating type of facilities, size and capacities;
      (21)   Landscape plans including plant materials list in accordance with
§
157.037;
      (22)   Statement regarding proposed financing and ultimate ownership of
all common-use facilities, roads, utilities, parking, recreational and the
like;
      (23)   If sites only are to be provided for construction of common use or
community service facilities by public, religious or institutional agencies, a
statement explaining the type of land transaction proposed, together with the
sale price or rental to be charged, if any, for use of such sites for such
purposes as well as any restrictions to be placed upon the use and development
of the sites for the purposes shown;
      (24)   Proposed development schedule showing the overall phasing
anticipated, the relationship of the proposed final development plan to the
total schedule, the starting and anticipated completion time for the phase
covered by the final plan and the area of open space to provided in each phase
of development;
      (25)   If the plan contemplates any portion of the project to be
implemented or subsequently owned by other than the petitioner/applicant,
sufficient information concerning such arrangements shall be submitted to
enable the village to be assured that the development will be carried out in
complete compliance with the spirit and intent of the approval granted;
      (26)   Updated information for the following impacts: school, tax,
traffic, economic feasibility and environmental study;
      (27)   Agreements, bylaws, provisions or covenants which govern the
organizational structure, use, maintenance and continued protection of the
planned unit development and any of its common services, common open areas or
other facilities;
      (28)   A deposit shall be made to the village in cash, maintenance bond,
irrevocable bankable letter of credit, or commitments from banks or other
financial institutions, in a form acceptable to the village and consistent with
the provisions of the development regulations. This guarantee shall be
furnished to cover the completion of the public infrastructure that is to be
constructed within the planned unit development;
      (29)   A certificate shall be furnished from the County Collector stating
that they find no delinquent taxes on subject property, and that all special
assessments constituting a lien on the whole or any part of the property of the
planned unit development have been satisfied; and
      (30)   Any other plans, documents or schedules deemed necessary by the
village for proper evaluation of the proposal.
   (C)   Public hearings. If the final development plan conforms substantially
to the general development plan as approved, then no public hearing shall be
required; however, the Planning and Zoning Commission may hold informal
hearings if it so desires, to determine the conformance of the final
development plan with the general development plan.
   (D)   Planning and Zoning Commission findings and action.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning Commission to
submit its report on the final development plan to the Village Board of
Trustees within 30 days following the final adjournment of the aforesaid public
hearing thereon, but failure to so submit such report within said period of
time shall result in no impairment of the legality thereof nor of any action
taken thereon or in connection therewith.
      (2)   Such report shall provide findings of fact setting forth the
reasons for recommendation on one of the following:
         (a)   Approval of the final development plan as submitted;
         (b)   Approval subject to specific modifications or conditions; or
         (c)   Denial of the final development plan. These findings shall set
forth with particularity in what respects the proposal would or would not be in
the public interest, including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   In what respect the proposed plan is consistent with the
stated purpose of the planned unit development regulations;
            2.   The extent to which the proposed plan meets the requirements
and standards of the planned unit development regulations;
            3.   The extent to which the proposed plan departs from the zoning
and subdivision regulations or other village regulations otherwise applicable
to the subject property, including, but not limited to, the density, dimension,
area, bulk and use, and the reasons why these departures are deemed to be in
the public interest;
            4.   The method by which the proposed plan makes adequate provision
for public services, provides for and protects designated common open space,
and furthers the amenities of light, air, recreation and visual enjoyment;
            5.   The relationship and compatibility of the proposed plan to the
adjacent properties and neighborhoods;
            6.   The desirability of the proposed plan regarding physical
development, tax base and economic well being of the entire community; and
            7.   The conformity with the intent and spirit of the comprehensive
plan and the community planning objectives of the village.
   (E)   Conditions and guarantees. Prior to the granting of any planned unit
development, the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend, and the Village
Board of Trustees may stipulate, such conditions and restrictions upon the
establishment, location, design, layout, height, density, construction,
maintenance, aesthetics, operation and other elements of the planned unit
development as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest,
improvement of the development, protection of the adjacent area and to secure
compliance with the standards of this chapter. In all cases in which planned
unit developments are granted, the Village Board may require such evidence and
guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in
connection with the approval of the planned unit development are being, and
will be, complied with.
   (F)   Conveyance of easements and utilities.
      (1)   All sanitary sewer lines and water mains within the planned unit
developments in the village, which sanitary sewer lines are required by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or other division or branch of the state
government, to be owned, operated or maintained by the village, and which mains
are specified by the Village Engineer, shall be conveyed by the owner or
developer of the development to the village free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances by bond and proper bills of sale and such other documents, such as
waivers of lien, as are deemed necessary by the Village Attorney.
      (2)   All these lines and mains shall be constructed and installed to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer, and the engineer shall be present at all
times during construction and installation of the lines and mains.
      (3)   The owner or developer shall furnish the village with three full
sets of as-built plans, and shall grant the village a permanent easement of not
less than ten feet (or as determined necessary by the Village Engineer) on each
side of the sanitary sewer lines and water mains for the purpose of operation,
maintenance, replacement, repair and cleaning of the lines and mains.
      (4)   The owner or developer shall reimburse the village for all
engineering fees, TV inspections, infiltration and pressure tests and
inspection expenses incurred by the village relating to the lines and mains.
The owner or developer shall also reimburse the village for all costs of
maintenance, replacement and repair (except cleaning) of the lines and mains,
and all costs of returning the area to its original conditions, including, but
not limited to, landscaping and paving, and shall enter into a binding written
agreement with the village to do so.
      (5)   The provisions of this section shall be fully complied with by the
developers and owners of the planned unit developments in the village prior to
the acceptance by the village of such lines and mains, and prior to the
issuance of any certificates of occupancy by the village; and the village shall
not acquire any responsibility for the lines and mains until they are accepted
by a duly passed resolution of the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   (G)   Village President and Board of Trustees.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Village Board of Trustees, within 60
days following receipt of the report of the Planning and Zoning Commission on
the final development plan, to approve the recommendation, approve the
recommendation with their modifications, disapprove the recommendation or refer
the matter back to the Planning and Zoning Commission for further review and
action, but failure to do so within said period of time shall result in no
impairment of the legality of the action of the Board of Trustees nor of any
action taken thereon or in connection therewith.
      (2)   After approval is received, by ordinance, the village shall issue
building permits providing that the final development plan and supporting
documentation has been recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds and
construction drawings and the like have been reviewed, with the proof thereof,
shall the building permits be issued.
   (H)   Recording of final documentation. The ordinance authorizing
construction/development of the planned unit development shall be effective
only upon the recording of the final development plan, final plat of
subdivision and supporting documentation with the Recorder of Deeds. The
recording of the final development plan and final plat of subdivision shall be
a tool to inform all who deal with the planned unit development of the
restrictions placed upon the land, and act as the zoning control device.
   (I)   Guarantees of performance. The provisions and requirements of
Chapter 156, §§
156.05(E),
156.20 and
156.25 shall apply to all planned unit developments. The developer shall comply
with these requirements prior to the final approval by the Village Board of
Trustees on the final development plan.
(Prior Code, § 159.155) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 08-0654, passed 5-
21-2008) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.206 AMENDMENTS TO THE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The planned unit development shall be developed only in accordance to
the approved and recorded final development plan with all the supporting
documentation. The recorded final development plan and the subsequential
amendments, if any, shall be binding on the applicants, their successors,
grantees and assignees which shall limit and control the use of the premises
and location of structures in the planned unit development as set forth
therein.
   (B)   Changes to the recorded PUD may be made as follows.
      (1)   Major change.
         (a)   If major changes are proposed, a new public hearing is required
during re-submission of the general or final development plan. The Village
Board of Trustees shall decide what constitutes a major change for each planned
unit development. All changes to the final development plan shall be recorded
with the County Recorder of Deeds as amendments to the final development plan/
plat, or reflected in the recording of a new “corrected” final development
plan/plat.
         (b)   The following constitutes a major change:
            1.   A change which alters the concept or intent of the approved
“general/final development plans” for the planned unit development;
            2.   An increase in the gross residential density or intensity of
land uses;
            3.   An increase in the height of buildings;
            4.   A reduction in the area set aside for common open space, park
or school site, or in any case below that required for a minimum dedication;
            5.   An increase in the bedroom count;
            6.   Increase of the floor area for nonresidential uses;
            7.   An increase of the total ground area covered by buildings and
structures;
            8.   Changes in the road design standards below the minimum
requirements of Chapter 156; and
            9.   Significant changes in the final governing agreements, being
that of covenants, bylaws, provisions and the like. These changes shall be
resubmitted and approved only under a new general/final development plan with
supporting data, wherein all changes therein or amendments thereto may be
approved only by following the procedures for original approval.
      (2)   Minor changes. The Village Board of Trustees may approve minor
changes to the final development plan/plat which do not change the concept or
intent of the general development plan, without going through the general
development plan approval procedures. Minor changes shall be any change not
defined as a major change.
      (3)   Changes and/or amendments. No changes and/or amendments in the
general or final development plan/plat approved hereunder shall be considered
to waive any of the covenants or agreements limiting the use of land,
buildings, structures and improvements within the planned unit development
unless specifically so stated.
      (4)   Development schedule. If the construction completion sequence set
forth by the final development plan is not followed at any phase in the
construction of the planned unit development, the Village Board of Trustees may
direct the Building Inspector to refrain from issuing additional building or
occupancy permits, except such as are necessary to conform to the construction
completion sequence, until the development progress conforms to such required
completion sequence.
      (5)   Additions. Land contiguous to an existing planned unit development
may be added to such planned unit development; provided such land is made a
part of the original general development plan in all respects prior to its
incorporation into such plan by an amendment of the final development plan as
provided in this section.
      (6)   Development fees. The requirements of §
157.228, which establish the fees for reviewing engineering designs and
inspection construction of planned unit development, shall apply, as amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 159.156) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006)
§ 157.207 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS - RESIDENTIAL.
   For planned unit developments located in one or more residential districts,
exception may be made in the regulations of these districts, as provided
herein:
   (A)   Use regulations. In developments containing over 50 dwelling units,
uses specifically permitted and special uses in the B-1 District may be
allowed; provided that these uses and accessory uses shall not occupy more than
10% of the gross floor area of the development;
   (B)   Bulk regulations. In accordance with individual district requirements;
   (C)   Off-street parking and loading facilities. All in accordance with
regulations set forth in §§
157.120 through
157.126 and
157.140 through
157.144;
   (D)   Signage. All in accordance with regulations set forth in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
   (E)   General landscaping. All in accordance with regulations set forth in
§§
157.037 and
157.102(G);
   (F)   Performance standards. All activities shall conform with the
performance standards established and set forth in §§
157.029 through
157.034;
   (G)   Ingress and egress onto a public street. All in accordance with
regulations set forth in §§
157.024,
157.026 and
157.120 through
157.126;
   (H)   Outdoor storage. All in accordance with regulations set forth in §§
157.027,
157.037 and respected district regulations; and
   (I)   Accessory uses. All in accordance with regulations set forth in §
157.027.
(Prior Code, § 159.157) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007)
§ 157.208 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS - BUSINESS/COMMERCIAL.
   For planned developments located in one or more business districts,
exceptions may be made in the regulations of these districts, as set forth
herein:
   (A)   Use regulations. Uses listed as permitted and special uses in the
residential and business districts are allowed;
   (B)   Bulk regulations. In the B-1 and B-2 Districts, not more than 12
dwelling units per gross acre are allowed, except that an efficiency unit shall
be counted as 0.67 of a dwelling unit, and lodging room as 0.50 of a dwelling
unit;
   (C)   Off-street parking and loading facilities. All in accordance with
regulations set forth in §§
157.120 through
157.126 and
157.140 through
157.144;
   (D)   Signage. All in accordance with regulations set forth in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
   (E)   General landscaping. All in accordance with regulations set forth in
§§
157.037 and
157.102(G), all development subject to the planned unit development, §§
157.200 through
157.209, must include a sprinkler/irrigation system;
   (F)   Performance standards. All activities shall conform to the performance
standards established and set forth in §§
157.029 through
157.034;
   (G)   Ingress and egress onto a public street. All in accordance with
regulations set forth in §§
157.120 through
157.126;
   (H)   Outdoor storage. All in accordance with regulations set forth in §§
157.027 and
157.140 and respected district regulations;
   (I)   Accessory uses. All in accordance with regulations set forth in §
157.027;
   (J)   Commercial design guidelines. The following building design guidelines
shall apply to all structures.
      (1)   The facades of commercial establishments shall be architecturally
detailed.
      (2)   Commercial structures will reflect an architecturally pleasing
design.
         (a)   Examples of desired architecture:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4717.png]
 
      (3)   Features incorporated into the building design will be considered
as individual elements.
         (a)   Each structure must meet the minimum requirements for all
Building Sections One through Five.
         (b)   Should a large user share a common wall with other structures,
then that user will be subject to divisions (J)(6) and (J)(7) below. LARGE
USERS shall be defined as a single occupant comprised of 8,000 square feet or
more building space and possessing only two or less customer entrances. This
space must be built for a specifically single occupant user, and have no
intention of being divided into smaller tenant spaces at the time of
construction. (Example: a 40,000 square foot electronics store is constructed
in line with a multiple tenant structure.)
         (c)   Should any structure share a wall with another structure, only
the visible portion of that wall shall meet the number of required elements.
Example: if two units share 200 lineal feet of wall surface and one of the
users wall’s extend an extra 100 lineal feet from the point in which the shared
section ceases, then only that 100 lineal feet shall meet the element
requirement.
         (d)   Should a facade be entirely blocked from public view by other
structures or shared facades, then that facade will not have to meet the
element requirement.
         (e)   Buildings that consist of more than one functional story shall
contain similar design features as required per each section of the following
code. However, the actual element requirements will not increase. Any
additional elements will count for the section requirement. Concerning roof
design, a functional second story will be considered the same as a false second
story and will fulfill the roof design requirements if a detailed cornice is
utilized.
      (4)   Certain elements can be counted twice. These particular features
are as follows.
         (a)   Awnings, overhangs and canopies which accentuate entry points
can also be counted for Section Two: Street-Facing Facades or Section Five:
Non-Street-Facing Facades.
         (b)   Architectural thematic lights that accentuate an entry point can
also be counted for Section Two: Street-Facing Facades or Section Five: Non-
Street-Facing Facades.
         (c)   Medallions and other features that accentuate an entry point can
also be counted for Section Two: Street-Facing Facades or Section Five: Non-
Street-Facing Facades.
      (5)   In order to meet the criteria, any of the elements applied in
Section One must be uniform in nature over the entire structure.
         (a)   Section One: Building Form and Massing:
            1.   Texture change: a change in the surface quality, grain or
consistency of the building;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4715.png]
 
            2.   Pattern change: a differentiation in the configuration,
design, or arrangement of building materials in relationship to one another.
Examples: changes in building form from straight lines to arches or changing
the direction of bricks;
            3.   Color change: a differentiation in the color of exterior
materials used in construction of the actual building;
            4.   Material change: a change in the physical material used to
construct an individual building. Examples: changes from brick to ground face
block or limestone to granite;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4713.png]
 
            5.   Height variations: height variations include roofline or peak
sections which form a new roof plane. Variations which terminate at the same
height plane as other variations will not be double-counted in the point
system. Functioning second stories do not count for a height variation.
However, second stories may qualify for the mixed-use bonus. For false second
stories, see division (J)(5)(c)6. below The original height will count as a one
height variation, essentially all buildings will start with one change;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4721.png]
 
            6.   Canopy: a protective covering fashioned entirely over an
entryway or pedestrian space, typically made of canvas. Other materials are
acceptable;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4719.png]
 
            7.   Recesses and projections: a change in the wall plane in which
a section of the building moves either closer to or further from the original
wall plane of a structure. The original wall plane will count as one recess and
projection; essentially all buildings will start with one change;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4725.png]
 
            8.   Arcade: a series of arches supported by piers or columns;
            9.   Single tenant buildings: a single tenant building shall be
considered as a structure that possesses only one tenant and cannot be
separated into smaller units with more than one occupant by a demising wall or
any other means; and
            10.   Multiple tenant buildings: a multiple tenant building shall
be considered as a structure that possesses two or more tenants and can be
separated into smaller units with more than one occupant by a demising wall or
other means.
         (b)   Section Two: Street-Facing Facades:
            1.   Street-facing facades: those facades that face any public
street or major thoroughfare;
            2.   Colonnades: a series of, or row of, columns, usually spanned
by lintels, i.e., beams;
            3.   Pilasters: a flat, rectangular vertical member projecting from
a wall of which it forms a part. It usually has a base and a capital and is
often fluted;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4723.png]
 
            4.   Columns: a vertical, weight carrying architectural member,
circular in cross-section and consisting of a base and fluted (sometimes
omitted);
            5.   Exterior architectural window frames: an enhanced frame around
the exterior facade of a window incorporating one or more features, such as:
pilasters, columns, pediments, stones, creative brick work or the like;
            6.   Windows: glass features that are translucent or semi-
translucent in which a person can see into and out of a structure. Sheets of
glass separated by only metal frames or other materials will be counted as one
window. Windows will not be counted as separate unless they are separated by at
least three inches of a material such as masonry, concrete or an architectural
window frame. Functional windows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4729.png]
 
            7.   False windows: windows that do not see visually into a
structure, but do have some sort of visual point of interest. Examples: display
windows, pictures, and the like. Opaque or non-transparent windows do not
qualify as an element; and
            8.   Overhang: a feature that physically projects away from the
building wall plane. Can be made up of various materials or built out of the
building structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4727.png]
 
         (c)   Section Three: Roof Design:
            1.   Eave: the lower part of a roof which overhangs the building
facade;
            2.   Sloped roofs one-sided: a roof projecting from or above the
top of any structure that has a vertical slope between 30 and 80 degrees on one
side, and is surrounded by walls that meet at 90-degree angles. Angles of a
lesser or greater degree do not count;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4733.png]
 
            3.   Peaked roofs finished and sloped on all four sides: a roof
that climaxes at a peak and has slopes on all four sides. Does not need to
cover the whole functional roof of the structure, rather screen all roof top
equipment;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4731.png]
 
            4.   Complete sloped and peaked roof that covers the entire roof
surface: a roof sloping on all four sides which climaxes at a peak. This type
of roof does not cover 100% of the functional roof surface;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4737.png]
 
            5.   Cornice: the projecting crowning member of a roof, which
frames the roof plane and screens rooftop equipment; and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4735.png]
 
            6.   False second story: the use of additional vertical height on a
structure to create a second story in exterior appearance only. The equivalent
of a second story without having any inhabitable floor area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4741.png]
 
         (d)   Section Four: Entry-Articulation:
            1.   Overhang: a feature that physically projects away from the
building wall plane to accentuate an ingress or egress point. Can be made up of
various materials or built out of the building structure;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4739.png]
 
            2.   Architecturally thematic lights: lights that are incorporated
into the design of the building and go beyond a standard square light fixture.
Strings of LED or neon lights do not count;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4743.png]
 
            3.   Portico: an entrance porch with a roof supported by columns.
The portico shall include all necessary elements that an architecturally
pleasing entry entails: lighting, columns pilasters and architectural
detailing;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4747.png]
 
            4.   Columns: see division (J)(5)(b)4. above;
            5.   Exterior architectural window frames: see division (J)(5)(b)5.
above;
            6.   Knee wall: knee walls shall be a minimum of two feet in
height;
            7.   Multiple tenant building entry ways: multiple tenant entry
ways in multiple tenant buildings will be defined as possessing an access point
into a tenant space separated by a demising wall. Furthermore, each entryway
must meet the minimum element standards as detailed in this division (J)(5)(d).
A differentiated entryway may not exceed more than 60 feet, and must occur at a
logical division of the building; and
            8.   Pediments:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4745.png]
 
         (e)   Section Five: Non-Street-Facing Facades: see division (J)(5)(b)
above:
         (f)   Section Six: Bonuses:
            1.   Outdoor patios: a clearly defined area set aside for outside
dinning;
            2.   Mixed use: structures that contain commercial uses on the
ground floor and additional uses on the second floor;
            3.   Lining of buildings: using smaller tenant space to surround
(line) a larger big box user; and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4753.png]
 
            4.   Changes in building form to accentuate corners: change in the
physical shape of the building at the corner to further articulate the entryway
and differentiate the building form.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4749.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4751.png]
 
      (6)   Single tenant commercial building elements will be assessed as
follows: building elements will be assessed in the following manner, and must
conform to the minimum number of elements set forth in the following sections.
         (a)   Certain features can be counted twice.
            1.   Awnings that accentuate an entry point can also be counted for
Section Two: Street-Facing Facades and Section Five: Non-Street-Facing Facades.
            2.   Architectural thematic lights that accentuate an entry point
can also be counted for Section Two: Street-Facing Facades and Section Five:
Non-Street-Facing Facades.
            3.   Medallions and other features that accentuate an entry point
can also be counted for Section Two: Street-Facing Facades and Section Five:
Non-Street-Facing Facades.
         (b)   Section One: Building Form and Massing: In order to meet the
criteria, any of the elements applied in Section One must be uniform in nature
for the entire structure. Smooth concrete panels are not allowed. If the
primary wall surface material is either concrete or tilt up concrete, then a
pattern must be utilized within the concrete surface such as a stamped brick
pattern.
Table One
Building Materials:
A minimum of 3 of
the following                           Retail 10,000 to
categories must be  Retail 10,000       50,000 Square Feet Retail 50,001 Square
utilized. (Please   Square Feet or Less or Less            Feet or Greater
indicate the number
and type of changes
utilized.)
Table One
Building Materials:
A minimum of 3 of
the following                           Retail 10,000 to    Retail 50,001
categories must be  Retail 10,000       50,000 Square Feet  Square Feet or
utilized. (Please   Square Feet or Less or Less             Greater
indicate the number
and type of changes
utilized.)
Building form                                              
Color change                                               
Height variations:
height
differentiations
shall not exceed a
maximum of 5 feet.
Variations shall    A minimum of 2      A minimum of 3      A minimum of 3
include different   variations shall be variations shall be variations shall be
peak heights on     required            required            required
four sided or
finished roofs; see
section three.
Height intervals
cannot be less than
1 foot
Material change                                            
Pattern change                                             
Recess or
projection.
Variation shall not A minimum of 2      A minimum of 3      A minimum of 3
exceed 5 feet of    variations shall be variations shall be variations shall be
recess or           required            required            required
projection from
wall plane
Texture change                                             
 
         (c)   Section Two: Street-Facing Facades: points will be assessed as
follows: all street-facing and visible facades of a building shall include, at
set intervals, either horizontally or vertically, architectural details, such
as:
         (d)   Table Two:
Table Two
                Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to      Retail 50,001 Square
Facade Elements Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet or Feet or Greater
                                     Less
Table Two
                    Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Facade Elements     Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
                                        or Less
Architectural
detailing, such as
medallions,
incorporated stone                                        
features or the
like (each
medallion counts as
0.5 elements)
Architecturally
thematic light
fixtures (each                                            
light fixture
counts as 0.5
elements)
Colonnades (counts
as one element per                                        
every 10 lineal
feet)
Columns (counts as                                        
3 elements)
Elements (write the 4 elements are      4 elements are     3 elements are
amount of elements  required per every  required per every required per every
included)           15 lineal feet of   20 lineal feet of  30 lineal feet of
                    the facade          the facade         the facade
Exterior
architectural
window frames (each
complete                                                  
architectural frame
counts as 2
elements)
Fabric awnings
(individual awnings                                       
count as 1 element)
False windows                                             
Functional windows
(each functional
window counts as
2.5 elements.                                             
Windows must be
separated by an
architectural frame
for consideration)
Overhangs (counts
as 4                                                      
elements)
Pediments                                                 
Pilasters (each
pilaster counts as
1.5 elements and                                          
must be spaced at
intervals no less
than 20 feet)
 
         (e)   Section Three: Roof Design: points for this section will be
assessed as follows: attention should be paid to the design of roofs. There
must be variations in roof lines incorporating the following features:
            1.   Table Three, Part I - Roof Form:
Table Three, Part I - Roof Form
                Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to      Retail 50,001 Square
Major Roof Form Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet or Feet or greater
                                     Less
Table Three, Part I - Roof Form
Major Roof    Retail 10,000 Square Feet or Less                                       Retail 10,000 to 50,000 Square Feet or Less                             Retail 50,001 Square Feet or greater
Form
Aesthetic
roof covering
on sloped
roofs only;
slate, shale,
clay, cedar
shake or      Will substitute for 4 additional roof features required from roof       Will substitute for 4 additional roof features required from roof       Will substitute for 4 additional roof features required from roof
other high    articulation section                                                    articulation section                                                    articulation section
quality
shingle
deemed
appropriate
by the Zoning
Administrator
Complete
sloped and
peaked roof   No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section
that covers
the entire
roof surface
False second
story with
cornice.
False second
story must be
constructed   No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section
on all 4
sides of the
structure and
finished with
a cornice
Parapets
along flat
roofs that
must conceal
all rooftop   Must incorporate a combination of 10 elements from roof articulation    Must incorporate a combination of 12 elements from roof articulation    Must incorporate a combination of 34 elements from roof articulation
equipment.    section                                                                 section                                                                 section
All parapets
must cover
100% of the
structure
Peaked roofs
finished and
sloped on all
4 sides.      0—25% = 8 additional elements required from roof articulation section 0—25% = 8 additional elements required from roof articulation section 0—25% = 8 additional elements required from roof articulation section
Based on the  26—50% = 6 additional elements required from roof articulation section26—50% = 6 additional elements required from roof articulation section26—50% = 6 additional elements required from roof articulation section
amount of the 5l—75% = 4 additional elements required from roof articulation section51—75 % = 4 additional elements required from roof articulation sectio51—75 % = 4 additional elements required from roof articulation section
roof          76—100% = 2 additional elements required from roof articulation sectio76—100% = 2 additional elements required from roof articulation sectio76—100% = 2 additional elements required from roof articulation section
perimeter
covered by
the finished
roof
Sloped roofs  Must incorporate a combination of 8 elements from Group Two             Must incorporate a combination of 10 elements from Group Two            Must incorporate a combination of 12 elements from Group Two
one-sided
 
            2.   Table Three, Part II - Roof Articulation:
Table Three, Part II - Roof Articulation
Roof Articulation
Table Three, Part II - Roof Articulation
Roof Articulation
Cornice that incorporates additional    Substitutes for additional roof
architectural detailing. Must encompass requirements, such as: eaves, dormers,
100% of the building                    pediments or each facade counts as 3
                                        articulation elements
Cornices: must span entire facade (each  
facade counts as 2 elements)
Detailed cornice sections (must be at   Will count as 1 articulation element
least 25 feet in length)
Dormers                                  
Large roof pediment                      
Overhanging eaves: must span entire
facade (each facade counts as 5 roof     
articulation elements)
 
         (f)   Section Four: Entry-Articulation: points for this section will
be assessed as follows: each primary entrance shall be accentuated by
incorporating the following elements:
Table Four
                   Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Entry Articulation Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
                                        or Less
Table Four
                    Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Entry Articulation  Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
                                        or Less
Architectural
detailing, such as
medallions,
incorporated stone                                        
features or the
like (each
medallion counts as
0.5 elements)
Architecturally
thematic light
fixtures (each                                            
light fixture
counts as 0.5
elements)
Canopy (counts as 5                                       
elements)
Columns (does not
include columns                                           
used as a support
of a portico)
Elements (write the 10 elements are     10 elements are    10 elements are
amount of elements  required per each   required per each  required per each
included)           entrance            entrance           entrance
Exterior
architectural door                                        
frames (counts as
two elements)
Large pediments
over doorways                                             
(counts as 4
elements.)
Overhang (counts as                                       
4 elements)
Pilasters                                                 
Planter or wing
wall that                                                 
incorporates
landscaping
Porticos (counts                                          
for 8 elements)
Windows (counts as                                        
2.5 elements)
 
         (g)   Section Five: Non-Street-Facing Facades: points for this section
will be assessed as follows: all non-street-facing facades of a building shall
include, at set intervals, either horizontally or vertically, architectural
details, such as:
Table Five
                Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to      Retail 50,001 Square
Facade Elements Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet or Feet or greater
                                     Less
Table Five
                    Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Facade Elements     Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or greater
                                        or Less
Architectural
detailing, such as
medallions,
incorporated stone                                        
features or the
like (each
medallion counts as
0.5 elements)
Architecturally
thematic light
fixtures (each                                            
light fixture
counts as 0.5
elements)
Colonnades (counts
as 1 element per                                          
every 10 lineal
feet)
Columns (counts as                                        
3 elements)
Elements (write the 2.5 elements are    2 elements are     2 elements are
amount of elements  required per every  required per every required per every
included)           15 lineal feet of   25 lineal feet of  30 lineal feet of
                    the facade          the facade         the facade
Exterior
architectural
window frames (each
Complete                                                  
architectural frame
counts as 2
elements)
Fabric awnings
(individual awnings                                       
count as 1 element)
False windows                                             
Functional windows
(each functional
window counts as
2.5 elements.                                             
Windows must be
separated by an
architectural frame
for consideration)
Overhangs (counts                                         
as 4 elements)
Pilasters (each
pilaster counts as
2 elements and must                                       
be spaced at
intervals no less
than 20 feet)
Pediments                                                 
 
         (h)   Section Six: Building Bonuses: points for this section will be
assessed as follows: points awarded from the bonus section can be used as a
substitute for points required in other sections.
            1.   Table Six.
Table Six
Feature (the following extra features qualify as bonus and therefore can be
substituted for elements in the previous five sections)
Table Six
Feature (the following extra features qualify as bonus and therefore can be
substituted for elements in the previous five sections)
Building set close to the main or public street without large
expanses of parking, no more than one row of parking between the 15 elements
public street and building
Changes in building form to accentuate corners                   15 elements
LEED certification                                               30 elements
Lining of large retails                                          20 elements
Mixed use buildings                                              15 elements
Outdoor patios, 10 points. With a clear separation between the   10 elements
patio and pedestrian paths
 
               a.   Additional bonuses: should one section of the building go
“above and beyond” the required amount of points, those points may be
distributed to another section. A maximum of 20 elements will be allowed to be
redistributed. A total of 20 elements can be redistributed over the design
sections, but not more than ten elements per section. These bonus elements can
be applied in addition to the elements list in Table Six, division (J)(6)(h)1.
above.
               b.   If a whole development equaling five or more total lots
chooses an encompassing architectural theme, such as “prairie style,”
“colonial,” “gothic revival” or another theme, it will result in the bonus of
50 bonus elements to be distributed to the different lots of the new
development. Which new lots receive the bonus elements will be at the
discretion of the developer, but no lot will be eligible for more than 12
element bonuses. These bonus elements can be applied in addition to the
elements list in Table Six, division (J)(6)(h)1. above, and may exceed the ten
element per section limit.
               c.   Should a developer choose to use architecturally designed
light posts and fixtures away from the building such as on the sidewalks or in
the parking lots, a bonus of ten elements will be granted. These bonus elements
can be applied in addition to the elements list in Table Six, division (J)(6)
(h)1. above.
               d.   A total of 30 additional element bonuses can be applied per
building.
            2.   Penalties. No truck dock, trash facility or otherwise
conceived loading/unloading space shall face a major public or private street.
If the development must be designed so as to have a facility face a major
public or private street, then it must be properly screened as per §
157.037(D)(4)(o) and will result in a penalty of 15 elements on the respective
facade on which the truck dock is located.
      (7)   Multiple tenant commercial building elements will be assessed as
follows. Building elements will be assessed in the following manner, and must
conform to the minimum number of elements set forth in the following sections.
         (a)   Certain features can be counted twice.
            1.   For multiple tenant buildings with three or more separate
tenant spaces Section Four: Entryway Articulation shall be substituted for
either Section Two: Street-Facing Facades or Section Five: Non-Street-Facing
Facades depending on the orientation of the multiple entrance facade. However,
for elements to receive credit as entryway articulation, they must fall within
ten feet to either side of the entryway, but may extend to the roof line of the
structure.
            2.   Awnings that accentuate an entry point can also be counted for
Section Two: Street-Facing Facades and Section Five: Non-Street-Facing Facades.
            3.   Architectural thematic lights that accentuate an entry point
can also be counted for Section Two: Street-Facing Facades and Section Five:
Non-Street-Facing Facades.
            4.   Medallions and other features that accentuate an entry point
can also be counted for Section Two: Street-Facing Facades and Section Five:
Non-Street-Facing Facades.
            5.   Features, such as lights, medallions, pilasters and the like,
which fall on the dividing line of individual tenant spaces will count as equal
points for both tenant spaces. Points will only be awarded if the feature in
question falls evenly in the space between two tenant spaces.
         (b)   Section One: Building Form and Massing: elements for this
section will be assessed as follows and should include: in order to meet the
criteria all elements applied in section one must be uniform in nature for the
entire structure. If the primary wall surface material is either concrete or
tilt up concrete, then a pattern must be utilized within the concrete surface
such as a stamped brick pattern.
            1.   Table One.
Table One
Building Materials.
A minimum of 3 of   Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
the following       Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
categories must be                      or Less
utilized
Table One
Building Materials.
A minimum of 3 of   Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
the following       Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
categories must be                      or Less
utilized
Building form                                             
Color change                                              
Height variations:
height
differentiations
shall not exceed a
maximum of 5 feet.  Height of parapet   Height of parapet  Height of parapet
Variations will     must be varied per  must be varied per must be varied per
include different   the lesser of 40    the lesser of 40   the lesser of 40
peak heights on 4   lineal feet or 2    lineal feet or 2   lineal feet or 2
sided or finished   tenant spaces       tenant spaces      tenant spaces
roofs. (See Section
Three.) Height
intervals cannot be
less than 1 foot
Material change                                           
Pattern change                                            
Recess or
projection.         Wall projections    Wall projections   Wall projections
Variation shall not must be varied per  must be varied per must be varied per
exceed 5 feet of    the lesser of 40    the lesser of 40   the lesser of 40
recess or           lineal feet or 2    lineal feet or 2   lineal feet or 2
projection from     tenant spaces       tenant spaces      tenant spaces
wall plane
Texture change                                            
 
            2.   Individual unit form. Units must be either differentiated in
terms of form, color or materials per the lesser of 40 lineal feet or two
tenant spaces in the building to create the appearance of individual buildings.
Alternating similar patterns will be accepted provided an architectural theme
is adhered to and tenant spaces are clearly defined as separate.
            3.   Roof form of units. Changes in the appearance or shape of the
roofline to further accentuate the individual units are mandatory. Changes must
occur per the lesser of 40 lineal feet or two tenant spaces in the building to
create the appearance of individual buildings. Alternating similar patterns
will be accepted provided an architectural theme is adhered to and tenant
spaces are clearly defined as separate.
         (c)   Section Two: Street-Facing Facades: points will be assessed as
follows: all street-facing and visible facades of a building shall include, at
set intervals, either horizontally or vertically, architectural details, such
as:
Table Two
                Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to      Retail 50,001 Square
Facade Elements Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet or Feet or Greater
                                     Less
Table Two
                    Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Facade Elements     Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
                                        or Less
Architectural
detailing, such as
medallions,
incorporated stone                                        
features or the
like (each
medallion counts as
0.5 elements)
Architecturally
thematic light
fixtures (each                                            
light fixture
counts as 0.5
elements)
Colonnades (counts
as 1 element per                                          
every 10 lineal
feet)
Columns (counts as                                        
3 elements)
Elements (write the 4 elements are      4 elements are     3 elements are
amount of elements  required per every  required per every required per every
included)           15 lineal feet of   20 lineal feet of  30 lineal feet of
                    the facade          the facade         the facade
Exterior
architectural
window frames (each
complete                                                  
architectural frame
counts as 2
elements)
Fabric awnings
(individual awnings                                       
count as 1 element)
False windows                                             
Functional windows
(each functional
window counts as
2.5 elements.                                             
Windows must be
separated by an
architectural frame
for consideration)
Overhangs (counts                                         
as 4 elements)
Pediments                                                 
Pilasters (each
pilaster counts as
1.5 elements and                                          
must be spaced at
intervals no less
than 20 feet)
 
         (d)   Section Three: Roof Design: points for this section will be
assessed as follows: attention should be paid to the design of roofs. There
must be variations in roof lines incorporating the following features.
            1.   Table Three, Part I - Roof Form:
Table Three, Part I - Roof Form
                Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to      Retail 50,001 Square
Major Roof Form Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet or Feet or Greater
                                     Less
Table Three, Part I - Roof Form
Major Roof    Retail 10,000 Square Feet or Less                                       Retail 10,000 to 50,000 Square Feet or Less                             Retail 50,001 Square Feet or Greater
Form
Aesthetic
roof covering
on sloped
roofs only:
slate, shale,
clay, cedar
shake or      Will substitute for 4 additional roof features required from roof       Will substitute for 4 additional roof features required from roof       Will substitute for 4 additional roof features required from roof
other high    articulation section                                                    articulation section                                                    articulation section
quality
shingle
deemed
appropriate
by the Zoning
Administrator
Complete
sloped and
peaked roof   No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section
that covers
the entire
roof surface
False second
story with
cornice.
False second
story must be
constructed   No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section
on all 4
sides of the
structure and
finished with
a cornice
Parapets
along flat
roofs that
must conceal
all rooftop   Must incorporate a combination of 8 elements from roof articulation     Must incorporate a combination of 10 elements from roof articulation    Must incorporate a combination of 12 elements from roof articulation
equipment.    section                                                                 section                                                                 section
All parapets
must cover
100% of the
structure
Peaked roofs
finished and
sloped on all
4 sides.      0—25% = 8 additional elements required from roof articulation section 0—25% = 8 additional elements required from roof articulation section 0—25% = 8 additional elements required from roof articulation section
Based on the  26—50% = 6 additional elements required from roof articulation section26—50% = 6 additional elements required from roof articulation section26—50% = 6 additional elements required from roof articulation section
amount of the 51—75% = 4 additional elements required from roof articulation section51—75% = 4 additional elements required from roof articulation section51—75% = 4 additional elements required from roof articulation section
roof          76—100% = 2 additional elements required from roof articulation sectio76—100% = 2 additional elements required from roof articulation sectio76—100% = 2 additional elements required from roof articulation section
perimeter
covered by
the finished
roof
Sloped roofs  Must incorporate a combination of 8 elements from group two             Must incorporate a combination of 10 elements from group two            Must incorporate a combination of 12 elements from group two
one-sided
 
            2.   Table Three Part H - Roof Articulation:
Table Three Part H - Roof Articulation
Table Three Part H - Roof Articulation
Cornice that incorporates additional    Substitutes for additional roof
architectural detailing. Must encompass requirements, such as: eaves, dormers,
100% of the building                    pediments or each facade counts as 3
                                        articulation elements
Cornices: must span entire facade (each  
facade counts as 2 elements)
Detailed cornice sections (must be at   Will count as 1 articulation element
least 25 feet in length)
Dormers                                  
Large roof pediment                      
Overhanging eaves: must span entire
facade (each facade counts as 5 roof     
articulation elements)
Roof articulation                        
 
         (e)   Section Four: Entry-Articulation: points for this section will
be assessed as follows: each primary entrance shall be accentuated by
incorporating the following elements:
Table Four
Multi-Tenant Entry Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Articulation       Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
                                        or Less
Table Four
Multi-Tenant Entry  Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Articulation        Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
                                        or Less
Architectural
detailing, such as
medallions,
incorporated stone                                        
features or the
like (each
medallion counts as
0.5 elements)
Architecturally
thematic light
fixtures (each                                            
light fixture
counts as 0.5
elements)
Canopy (counts as 5                                       
elements)
Colonnades                                                
Columns (does not
include columns                                           
used as a support
of a portico)
Elements (write the 15 elements are     15 elements are    15 elements are
amount of elements  required per each   required per each  required per each
included)           entrance            entrance           entrance
Exterior
architectural door                                        
frames (counts as 2
elements)
False windows                                             
Individual space
fabric awnings                                            
(counts as 2
elements)
Knee wall except
for ingress and
egress points
(counts as 5                                              
elements) ** clear
glass to the bottom
of any structure is
prohibited
Overhang (counts as                                       
4 elements)
Pediments over
doorways (counts as                                       
4 elements)
Pilasters                                                 
Planter or wing
wall that                                                 
incorporates
landscaping
Porticos (counts                                          
for 8 elements)
Windows,
functional. Must
have architectural                                        
frame (counts as 2
elements)
 
         (f)   Section Five: Non-Street-Facing Facades: points for this section
will be assessed as follows: all non-street-facing facades of a building shall
include, at set intervals, either horizontally or vertically, architectural
details, such as:
Table Five
                Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to      Retail 50,001 Square
Facade Elements Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet or Feet or Greater
                                     Less
Table Five
                    Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Facade Elements     Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
                                        or Less
Architectural
detailing, such as
medallions,
incorporated stone                                        
features or the
like (each
medallion counts as
0.5 elements)
Architecturally
thematic light
fixtures (each                                            
light fixture
counts as 0.5
elements)
Colonnades (counts
as 1 element per                                          
every 10 lineal
feet)
Columns (counts as                                        
3 elements)
Elements (write the 2.5 elements are    2 elements are     2 elements are
amount of elements  required per every  required per every required per every
included)           15 lineal feet of   20 lineal feet of  30 lineal feet of
                    the facade          the facade         the facade
Exterior
architectural
window frames (each
complete                                                  
architectural frame
counts as 2
elements)
Fabric awnings
(individual awnings                                       
count as 1 element)
False windows                                             
Functional windows
(each functional
window counts as
2.5 elements.                                             
Windows must be
separated by an
architectural frame
for consideration)
Overhangs (counts                                         
as 4 elements)
Pediments                                                 
Pilasters (each
pilaster counts as
2 elements and must                                       
be spaced at
intervals no less
than 20 feet)
 
         (g)   Section Six: Building Bonuses: points for this section will be
assessed as follows: points awarded from the bonus section can be used as a
substitute for points required in other sections.
            1.   Table Six.
Table Six
Feature (the following extra features qualify as bonus and, therefore, can be
substituted for elements in the previous five sections)
Table Six
Feature (the following extra features qualify as bonus and, therefore, can
be substituted for elements in the previous five sections)
Building set close to the main or public street without large
expanses of parking, no more than one row of parking between the 15 elements
public street and building
Changes in building form to accentuate corners                   15 elements
LEED certification                                               30 elements
Lining of large retails                                          20 elements
Mixed use buildings                                              15 elements
Outdoor patios, 10 points. With a clear separation between the   10 elements
patio and pedestrian paths
 
               a.   Additional bonuses: Should one section of the building go
“above and beyond” the required amount of points, those points may be
distributed to another section. A maximum of 20 elements will be allowed to be
redistributed. A total of 20 elements can be redistributed over the design
sections, but not more than ten elements per section. These bonus elements can
be applied in addition to the elements list in Table Six, division (J)(6)(h)1.
above.
               b.   If a whole development equaling five or more total lots
chooses an encompassing architectural theme, such as “prairie style,”
“colonial,” “gothic revival” or another theme, will result in the bonus of 50
bonus elements to be distributed to the different lots of the new development.
Which new lots receive the bonus elements will be at the discretion of the
developer, but no lot will be eligible for more that 12 element bonuses. These
bonus elements can be applied in addition to the elements list in Table Six,
division (J)(6)(h)1. above, and may exceed the ten element per section limit.
               c.   Should a developer choose to use architecturally designed
light posts and fixtures away from the building such as on the sidewalks or in
the parking lots, a bonus of ten elements will be granted. These bonus elements
can be applied in addition to the elements list in Table Six, division (J)(6)
(h)1. above.
               d.   A total of 30 additional element bonuses can be applied per
building.
            2.   Penalties. No truck dock, trash facility or otherwise
conceived loading/unloading space shall face a major public or private street.
If the development must be designed so as to have a facility face a major
public or private street, then it must be properly screened as per §
157.037(D)(4)(o) and will result in a penalty of 15 elements on the respective
facade on which the truck dock is located.
      (7)   Multiple tenant commercial building elements will be assessed as
follows: building elements will be assessed in the following manner, and must
conform to the minimum number of elements set forth in the following sections.
         (a)   Certain features can be counted twice.
            1.   For multiple tenant buildings with three or more separate
tenant spaces section four: entryway articulation shall be substituted for
either Section Two: Street-Facing Facades or Section Five: Non-Street-Facing
Facades depending on the orientation of the multiple entrance facade. However,
for elements to receive credit as entryway articulation, they must fall within
ten feet to either side of the entryway, but may extend to the roof line of the
structure.
            2.   Awnings that accentuate an entry point can also be counted for
Section Two: Street-Facing Facades and Section Five: Non-Street-Facing Facades.
            3.   Architectural thematic lights that accentuate an entry point
can also be counted for Section Two: Street-Facing Facades and Section Five:
Non-Street-Facing Facades.
            4.   Medallions and other features that accentuate an entry point
can also be counted for Section Two: Street-Facing Facades and Section Five:
Non-Street-Facing Facades.
            5.   Features, such as lights, medallions, pilasters and the like,
which fall on the dividing line of individual tenant spaces, will count as
equal points for both tenant spaces. Points will only be awarded if the feature
in question falls evenly in the space between two tenant spaces.
         (b)   Section One: Building Form and Massing: elements for this
section will be assessed as follows and should include: in order to meet the
criteria, all elements applied in section one must be uniform in nature for the
entire structure. If the primary wall surface material is either concrete or
tilt up concrete, then a pattern must be utilized within the concrete surface
such as a stamped brick pattern.
            1.   Table One.
Building materials.
A minimum of 3 of   Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
the following       Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
categories must be                      or Less
utilized
Building materials.
A minimum of 3 of   Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
the following       Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
categories must be                      or Less
utilized
Building form                                             
Color change                                              
Height variations:
height
differentiations
shall not exceed a
maximum of 5 feet.  Height of parapet   Height of parapet  Height of parapet
Variations will     must be varied per  must be varied per must be varied per
include different   the lesser of 40    the lesser of 40   the lesser of 40
peak heights on 4   lineal feet or 2    lineal feet or 2   lineal feet or 2
sided or finished   tenant spaces       tenant spaces      tenant spaces
roofs. (See Section
Three.) Height
intervals cannot be
less than 1 foot
Material change                                           
Pattern change                                            
Recess or
projection.         Wall projections    Wall projections   Wall projections
Variation shall not must be varied per  must be varied per must be varied per
exceed 5 feet of    the lesser of 40    the lesser of 40   the lesser of 40
recess or           lineal feet or 2    lineal feet or 2   lineal feet or 2
projection from     tenant spaces       tenant spaces      tenant spaces
wall plane
Texture change                                            
 
            2.   Individual unit form. Units must be either differentiated in
terms of form, color or materials per the lesser of 40 lineal feet or two
tenant spaces in the building to create the appearance of individual buildings.
Alternating similar patterns will be accepted provided an architectural theme
is adhered to and tenant spaces are clearly defined as separate.
            3.   Roof form of units. Changes in the appearance or shape of the
roofline to further accentuate the individual units are mandatory. Changes must
occur per the lesser of 40 lineal feet or two tenant spaces in the building to
create the appearance of individual buildings. Alternating similar patterns
will be accepted provided an architectural theme is adhered to and tenant
spaces are clearly defined as separate.
         (c)   Section Two: Street-Facing Facades. Points will be assessed as
follows: all street-facing and visible facades of a building shall include, at
set intervals, either horizontally or vertically, architectural details, such
as:
Table Two
                Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to      Retail 50,001 Square
Facade Elements Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet or Feet or Greater
                                     Less
Table Two
                    Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Facade Elements     Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
                                        or Less
Architectural
detailing, such as
medallions,
incorporated stone                                        
features or the
like (each
medallion counts as
0.5 elements)
Architecturally
thematic light
fixtures (each                                            
light fixture
counts as 0.5
elements)
Colonnades (counts
as 1 element per                                          
every 10 lineal
feet)
Columns (counts as                                        
3 elements)
Elements (write the 4 elements are      4 elements are     3 elements are
amount of elements  required per every  required per every required per every
included)           15 lineal feet of   20 lineal feet of  30 lineal feet of
                    the facade          the facade         the facade
Exterior
architectural
window frames (each
complete                                                  
architectural frame
counts as 2
elements)
Fabric awnings
(individual awnings                                       
count as 1 element)
False windows                                             
Functional windows
(each functional
window counts as
2.5 elements.                                             
Windows must be
separated by an
architectural frame
for consideration)
Overhangs (counts                                         
as 4 elements)
Pediments                                                 
Pilasters (each
pilaster counts as
1.5 elements and                                          
must be spaced at
intervals no less
than 20 feet)
 
         (d)   Section Three: Roof Design: points for this section will be
assessed as follows: attention should be paid to the design of roofs. There
must be variations in roof lines incorporating the following features:
            1.   Table Three Part I - Roof Form.
Table Three Part I - Roof Form
                Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to      Retail 50,001 Square
Major Roof Form Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet or Feet or Greater
                                     Less
Table Three Part I - Roof Form
Major Roof    Retail 10,000 Square Feet or Less                                       Retail 10,000 to 50,000 Square Feet or Less                             Retail 50,001 Square Feet or Greater
Form
Aesthetic
roof covering
on sloped
roofs only:
slate, shale,
clay, cedar
shake or      Will substitute for 4 additional roof features required from roof       Will substitute for 4 additional roof features required from roof       Will substitute for 4 additional roof features required from roof
other high    articulation section                                                    articulation section                                                    articulation section
quality
shingle
deemed
appropriate
by the Zoning
Administrator
Complete
sloped and
peaked roof   No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section
that covers
the entire
roof surface
False second
story with
cornice.
False second
story must be
constructed   No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section     No additional roof features required from roof articulation section
on all 4
sides of the
structure and
finished with
a cornice
Parapets
along flat
roofs that
must conceal
all rooftop   Must incorporate a combination of 8 elements from roof articulation     Must incorporate a combination of 10 elements from roof articulation    Must incorporate a combination of 12 elements from roof articulation
equipment.    section                                                                 section                                                                 section
All parapets
must cover
100% of the
structure
Peaked roofs
finished and
sloped on all
4 sides.      0—25% = 8 additional elements required from roof articulation section 0—25% = 8 additional elements required from roof articulation section 0—25% = 8 additional elements required from roof articulation section
Based on the  26—50% = 6 additional elements required from roof articulation section26—50% = 6 additional elements required from roof articulation section26—50% = 6 additional elements required from roof articulation section
amount of the 51—75% = 4 additional elements required from roof articulation section51—75% = 4 additional elements required from roof articulation section51—75% = 4 additional elements required from roof articulation section
roof          76—100% = 2 additional elements required from roof articulation sectio76—100% = 2 additional elements required from roof articulation sectio76—100% = 2 additional elements required from roof articulation section
perimeter
covered by
the finished
roof
Sloped roofs  Must incorporate a combination of 8 elements from Group Two             Must incorporate a combination of 10 elements from Group Two            Must incorporate a combination of 12 elements from Group Two
one-sided
 
            2.   Table Three Part H - Roof Articulation.
Table Three Part H - Roof Articulation
Table Three Part H - Roof Articulation
Cornice that incorporates additional    Substitutes for additional roof
architectural detailing. Must encompass requirements, such as: eaves, dormers,
100% of the building                    pediments or each facade counts as 3
                                        articulation elements
Cornices: must span entire facade (each  
facade counts as 2 elements)
Detailed cornice sections (must be at   Will count as 1 articulation element.
least 25 feet in length)
Dormers                                  
Large roof pediment                      
Overhanging eaves: must span entire
facade (each facade counts as 5 roof     
articulation elements)
Roof articulation                        
      
         (e)   Section Four: Entry-Articulation: points for this section will
be assessed as follows: each primary entrance shall be accentuated by
incorporating the following elements.
Table Four
Multi-Tenant Entry Retail 10,000 Square Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Articulation       Feet or Less         50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
                                        or Less
Table Four
Multi-Tenant Entry  Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001 Square
Articulation        Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Feet or Greater
                                        or Less
Architectural
detailing, such as
medallions,
incorporated stone                                        
features or the
like (each
medallion counts as
0.5 elements)
Architecturally
thematic light
fixtures (each                                            
light fixture
counts as 0.5
elements)
Canopy (counts as 5                                       
elements)
Colonnades                                                
Columns. Does not
include columns                                           
used as a support
of a portico
Elements (write the 15 elements are     15 elements are    15 elements are
amount of elements  required per each   required per each  required per each
included)           entrance            entrance           entrance
Exterior
architectural door                                        
frames (counts as 2
elements)
False windows                                             
Individual space
fabric awnings                                            
(counts as 2
elements)
Knee wall except
for ingress and
egress points
(counts as 5                                              
elements) ** clear
glass to the bottom
of any structure is
prohibited
Overhang (counts as                                       
4 elements)
Pediments over
doorways (counts as                                       
4 elements)
Pilasters                                                 
Planter or wing
wall that                                                 
incorporates
landscaping
Porticos (counts                                          
for 8 elements)
Windows,
functional. Must
have architectural                                        
frame (counts as 2
elements)
 
         (f)   Section Five: Non-Street-Facing Facades: points for this section
will be assessed as follows: all non-street-facing facades of a building shall
include, at set intervals, either horizontally or vertically, architectural
details, such as:
Table Five
                Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to      Retail 50,001
Facade Elements Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet or Square Feet or
                                    Less                  Greater
Table Five
                     Retail 10,000       Retail 10,000 to   Retail 50,001
Facade Elements      Square Feet or Less 50,000 Square Feet Square Feet or
                                         or Less            Greater
Architectural
detailing, such as
medallions,
incorporated stone                                         
features or the like
(each medallion
counts as 0.5
elements)
Architecturally
thematic light
fixtures (each light                                       
fixture counts as
0.5 elements)
Colonnades (counts
as 1 element per                                           
every 10 lineal
feet)
Columns (counts as 3                                       
elements)
Elements (write the  2.5 elements are    2 elements are     2 elements are
amount of elements   required per every  required per every required per every
included)            15 lineal feet of   20 lineal feet of  30 lineal feet of
                     the facade          the facade         the facade
Exterior
architectural window
frames (each
complete                                                   
architectural frame
counts as 2
elements)
Fabric awnings
(individual awnings                                        
count as 1 element)
False windows                                              
Functional windows
(each functional
window counts as 2.5
elements. Windows                                          
must be separated by
an architectural
frame for
consideration)
Overhangs (counts as                                       
4 elements)
Pediments                                                  
Pilasters (each
pilaster counts as 2
elements and must be                                       
spaced at intervals
no less than 20
feet)
               
         (g)   Section Six: Building Bonuses: points for this section will be
assessed as follows: points awarded from the bonus section can be used as a
substitute for points required in other sections.
            1.   Table Six.
Table Six
Feature (the following extra features qualify as bonus and, therefore, can be
substituted for elements in the previous five sections)
Table Six
Feature (the following extra features qualify as bonus and, therefore, can
be substituted for elements in the previous five sections)
Building set close to the main or public street without large
expanses of parking, no more than one row of parking between the 15 elements
public street and building
Changes in building form to accentuate corners                   15 elements
LEED certification                                               30 elements
Lining of large retails                                          20 elements
Mixed use buildings                                              15 elements
Outdoor patios, 10 points. With a clear separation between the   10 elements
patio and pedestrian paths
 
            2.   Additional bonuses.
               a.   Additional bonuses: should one section of the building go
“above and beyond” the required amount of points, those points may be
distributed to another section. A maximum of 20 elements will be allowed to be
redistributed. A total of 20 elements can be redistributed over the design
sections, but not more than ten elements per section. These bonus elements can
be applied in addition to the elements list in Table Six, division (J)(6)(g)1.
above.
               b.   If a whole development equaling five or more total lots
chooses an encompassing architectural theme, such as “prairie style,”
“colonial,” “gothic revival” or another theme, will result in the bonus of 50
bonus elements to be distributed to the different lots of the new development.
Which new lot receives the bonus elements will be at the discretion of the
developer, but no lot will be eligible for more that 12 bonus elements. These
bonus elements can be applied in addition to the elements list in Table Six,
division (J)(6)(g)1. above, and may exceed the ten element per section limit.
               c.   Should a developer choose to use architecturally designed
light posts and fixtures away from the building such as on the sidewalks or in
the parking lots, a bonus of 15 elements will be granted. These bonus elements
can be applied in addition to the elements list in Table Six, division (J)(6)
(g)1. above, and may exceed the five elements per section limit.
               d.   A total of 30 additional bonus elements can be applied per
building.
            3.   Penalties. No truck dock, trash facility or otherwise
conceived loading/unloading space shall face a major public or private street.
If the development must be designed so as to have a facility face a major
public or private street, then it must be properly screened as per §
157.037(D)(4)(o) and will result in a penalty of 15 elements on the respective
facade on which the truck dock is located.
      (8)   Light pole design must comply with the following: all parking lot
and pedestrian light poles must possess an architectural character. Refer to
division (J)(5)(d)2. above.
      (9)   Materials shall be of durable quality with good architectural
character.
         (a)   Buildings shall have the same materials, or those that are
architecturally harmonious, used for all building walls and other exterior
building components wholly or partly visible from public ways.
         (b)   Materials shall be selected for suitability to the type of
buildings and the design in which they are used.
         (c)   In any design in which the structural frame is exposed to view,
the structural materials shall be compatible within themselves and harmonious
with their surroundings.
         (d)   Materials shall include brick, wood, stone, tinted and textured
concrete, masonry units and the like.
         (e)   Colors should be of low reflectance, subtle, neutral or earth
tone colors.
         (f)   Smooth-faced concrete blocks, pre-fabricated steel panels are
not acceptable.
         (g)   EFIS will not be allowed for more than 15% of the ground floor
elevation and 30% of any additional story or false second story.
      (10)   Exterior lighting shall be part of the architectural concept.
Fixtures, standards and all exposed accessories shall be harmonious with the
building design.
      (11)   Landscaping shall conform to the requirement of §
157.037. Careful attention should be paid in the design of these buildings to
ensure that all foundation landscaping can be accommodated.
      (12)   Sign locations on all buildings will be required as part of the
sign plans. These plans must identify sign placement “envelopes” of rectilinear
spaces wherein signs are allowed. Signs are not allowed outside of the
designated envelope nor are envelopes allowed to span between different tenant
spaces.
   (K)   Site design guidelines. The following site design guidelines shall
apply to all structures.
      (1)   Site layout.
         (a)   Buildings shall be sited so as to encourage pedestrian traffic
and so as to highlight architectural features of the buildings.
         (b)   Focal points, vistas, public art and architectural features
shall be incorporated into the site design. These elements shall be provided in
the landscaping areas, at natural vistas and in parking lot islands.
         (c)   The parking lot shall be surrounded by a landscaped berm except
where impractical due to entrances and/or intersections.
         (d)   Parking shall be distributed around large buildings in order to
reduce traveling distance and the overall scale of paved surface.
         (e)   At least one customer entrance shall be provided for each
street-facing facade.
         (f)   Drop-off and pick-up points shall be integrated into the parking
lot design. These shall be designed so as to accommodate private vehicles as
well as transit.
         (g)   Snow clearing must be addressed by providing a designated snow
piling area.
         (h)   A build-to line shall be established for all establishments
located on out lots so as to accommodate a streetscape of buildings rather that
one of parking spaces.
      (2)   Circulation.
         (a)   The circulation systems shall be designed to carry different
types of traffic and to provide safe access to all parking spaces and access
drives.
         (b)   Vehicular circulation systems providing access to parking areas
shall be designed to reduce the potential for vehicular conflicts.
         (c)   Adequate stacking for vehicles shall be provided at the access
points from parking areas.
         (d)   Entrances to the site shall be designed to accommodate vehicles,
pedestrians and cyclists. Special attention shall be paid to accommodate
cyclists and pedestrians along property lines abutting the path system.
         (e)   In the event a vehicle deflector is provided, the deflector must
consist of a landscaped area and a focal feature. The landscaping must
incorporate ornamental trees, shrubs, flowers and grasses. The focal feature
must be a unique piece of art or an architectural element consistent with the
design of the buildings on the site.
      (3)   Pedestrian considerations.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be provided along all sides of the lot that abut
a public street.
         (b)   Continuous internal pedestrian walkways shall be provided from
the public sidewalk or right-of-way to the principal entrance of all principal
buildings on site. At a minimum, walkways shall connect focal points of
pedestrian activity and shall feature adjoining landscaped areas.
         (c)   Sidewalks shall be provided along the full length of the
building along any facade featuring a customer entrance and along any facade
abutting parking areas. Such sidewalks shall be setback at least six feet from
the facade of the building in order to provide planting beds for foundation
landscaping, except where impractical due to entrances and the like.
         (d)   All internal pedestrian walkways shall be distinguished from
driveways through the use of different surface treatments.
         (e)   Pedestrian ways shall be anchored by special design features and
architectural elements that define circulation ways and outdoor spaces.
         (f)   Delivery and loading areas shall be designed so as not to
disturb pedestrian and parking lot circulation and so as not to disturb
adjoining neighborhoods.
         (g)   Sidewalks shall be five feet minimum in width. A variance will
be considered for special circumstances with restricted space; however, in no
case shall a width less than four feet be allowed. Sidewalks that abut a public
street shall be separated from the street with a landscaped parkway with a
minimum width of six feet wherever practical.
         (h)   Sidewalk curb ramps shall be constructed at all intersections
between sidewalks and streets, parking areas, driveways and other vehicular
passageways. The ramps shall be of the truncated dome type and shall be
constructed in accordance with the latest version of the State Department of
Transportation’s Standard No. 424001, Curb Ramps for Sidewalks. The ramps shall
also be placed at the ends of sidewalk island areas in parking areas, and
adjacent to disabled-access parking stalls in sidewalk island areas in parking
areas. The sidewalks shall meet the requirements of the ADA and ABA
Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities.
         (i)   Sidewalks at entranceways to buildings shall be constructed so
that the entranceways meet the requirements of the ADA and ABA Accessibility
Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities.
(Prior Code, § 159.158) (Ord. 06-0388, passed 6-7-2006; Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-
21-2007; Ord. 07-0557, passed 7-18-2007; Ord. 07-0558, passed 7-18-2007; Ord.
08-0657, passed 5-21-2008) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.209 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS - MANUFACTURING/INDUSTRIAL.
   For planned developments located in one or more manufacturing/industrial
districts, exceptions may be made in the regulations of these districts, as set
forth herein:
   (A)   Use regulations. Uses listed as permitted and special uses in the
business/commercial and manufacturing/industrial districts are allowed;
   (B)   Bulk regulations.
      (1)   Yards. Yard requirements may be waived, except along the exterior
boundaries of the development.
      (2)   Floor area ratio. Floor area ratio requirement of the district are
applicable to the entire planned development and not to specific uses which may
be located within the planned development. For this purpose, the net site area
shall be used in the computation.
   (C)   Off street parking and loading facilities. All in accordance with
regulations set forth in §§
157.120 through
157.126 and
157.140 through
157.144;
   (D)   Signage. All in accordance with regulations set forth in §§
157.155 through
157.167;
   (E)   General landscaping. All in accordance with regulations set forth in
§§
157.037 and
157.102(G);
   (F)   Performance standards. All activities shall conform with the
performance standards established and set forth in §§
157.029 through
157.034;
   (G)   Ingress and egress onto a public street. All in accordance with
regulations set forth in §§
157.024,
157.026 and
157.120 through
157.126;
   (H)   Outdoor storage. All in accordance with regulations set forth in §§
157.027,
157.037 and respected district regulations; and
   (I)   Design guidelines. The following building design guidelines shall
apply to all structures.
      (1)   Facades.
         (a)   Architectural details shall be incorporated on all visible
building facades, such as:
            1.   Textures;
            2.   Patterns;
            3.   Color building; and
            4.   Forms used on front of facades.
         (b)   Building massing should be varied to create a logical hierarchy
of building forms; to break up long expanses of facade and create shade and
shadow.
      (2)   Entrances. Each principle building on a site should have clearly
defined, highly visible customer entrances, featuring at least three of the
following:
         (a)   Overhangs;
         (b)   Recesses/projections;
         (c)   Arcades;
         (d)   Raised cornice parapets;
         (e)   Peaked roof forms;
         (f)   Arches; and
         (g)   Display windows.
      (3)   Building materials.
         (a)   High quality building materials, such as concrete, brick and
stone, must be used on the facade of buildings. Vinyl siding, metal siding
(including standing seam metal) and EIFS are prohibited.
         (b)   Building materials should be similar to the materials of the
structures in the area. However, dissimilar materials may be permitted when
incorporating other characteristics, such as scale, form, architectural
detailing and color to make the building compatible with the area.
         (c)    Materials requiring low maintenance are recommended over high
maintenance materials. For instance, materials with integral color are
generally recommended over materials require painting.
      (4)   Siting.
         (a)   Orient buildings so that building entries, office areas and
pedestrian-scale amenities are on the exposed sides of the facility;
         (b)   Configure buildings and circulation to conceal loading docks,
rolling up doors, mechanical equipment and outdoor areas with a high level of
vehicular activity. Service and mechanical areas shall be designed as an
architectural feature of the building and entirely screened from view; and
         (c)   Provide sufficient buffer space and landscape treatment to
migrate noise, visual clutter or other negative impacts.
(Prior Code, § 159.159) (Ord. 07-0508, passed 2-21-2007) Penalty, see §
157.999
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 157.220 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator
to enforce this chapter. The Village Planner is designated the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall receive applications required by
this chapter, issue permits and furnish prescribed certificates. They shall
examine premises for which permits have been issued, and shall make necessary
inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with. They shall
enforce all laws relating to the construction, alteration, repair, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings
and structures, except as may be otherwise provided for. They shall, when
requested by the Planning and Zoning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals,
Village Administration or Village Board of Trustees, or when the interests of
the municipality so require, make investigations in connection with matters
referred to in this chapter and render written reports on the same. For the
purpose of enforcing compliance with law, they shall issue such notices or
orders as may be necessary.
   (B)   Inspections. Inspections shall be made by the Zoning Administrator or
a duly appointed assistant or employee of the village.
   (C)   Organization. The administration of this chapter is vested in:
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals (65 ILCS 5/11-13-3);
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission (65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 and 5/11-12-
5); and
      (4)   The Village President (Mayor) and Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce this chapter.
      (2)   The Administrator shall:
         (a)   Adopt policies and procedures that are consistent with, in order
to carry out the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Request and shall receive, so far as may be necessary in the
discharge of their duties, the assistance and cooperation of the Village
Engineer in fixing grades, of the Chief of Police in enforcing orders, of the
Village Attorney in prosecuting violations, of the Building Inspector for
construction violations to this chapter and of other officials from time to
time and are determined to be necessary in carrying out the strict letter of
this chapter;
         (c)   Determine the conformity of applications for zoning certificates
with this chapter;
         (d)   Issue all zoning certificates, following approval as required by
this chapter, and maintain records thereof;
         (e)   Countersign all certificates of occupancy with Building
Inspector and maintain records thereof;
         (f)   Conduct inspections of structures and uses of land to determine
compliance with this chapter, at least once every two years;
         (g)   Decide or make recommendations on all other matters under this
chapter upon which the Zoning Administrator is required to act;
         (h)   Initiate, direct and review from time to time a study of this
chapter, and make reports of their recommendations to the Planning and Zoning
Commission, not less than annually;
         (i)   Issue permits regulating the erection and use of temporary
buildings for specific periods of time for purposes such as community,
religious, eleemosynary, educations, amusement, recreational or commercial
purposes; provided that such uses are in conformity with all other regulations
and codes of the village;
         (j)   Provide and maintain public information relative to all matters
pertaining to this chapter;
         (k)   Receive, file and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals all
applications for variances or other matters which, under this chapter, require
referral to the Zoning Board of Appeals;
         (l)   Receive, file and forward to the Planning and Zoning Commission
all applications for amendments, special uses or other matters which, under
this chapter, require referral to the Commission;
         (m)   Maintain permanent and current records of the administration and
enforcement of this chapter, including, but not limited to, applications,
processing and decisions for all amendments, special uses and planned unit
developments recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and variances
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
         (n)   Shall also designate on the “official zoning map” all map
amendments and corporate limit modifications no later than March 31 of the
following year, in accordance with state statutes and local ordinance.
   (E)   Zoning certificates. No building permit or license pertaining to the
use of structures or land shall be issued by the village unless the application
for that permit has been examined by the Zoning Administrator, and has affixed
to it a certificate that the proposed structure and use complies with all of
the provisions of this chapter. Construction or development authorized by a
permit shall proceed with reasonable continuity until completion. Any
certificate issued in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be null and void.
   (F)   Filing of plans. An application for a zoning certificate shall be
accompanied by a current registered survey of the lot, drawn to a scale and
prepared by a registered surveyor, showing the shape, area and dimensions of
the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location on the lot of the
existing buildings and accessory buildings; the lines within the new structures
of dwelling unit, the location of driveways; the location and number of off-
street parking and off-street loading, unloading and outdoor storage; and such
other information with regard to the lot and neighboring lots and performance
standards as may be necessary to determine and provide for the enforcement of
this chapter. One photocopy of these plans shall be returned to the owner of
the approved plan, and one copy shall be filed with the Building Inspector. The
lot and location of the building thereon shall be staked out on the ground
before construction is started.
   (G)   Certificates of occupancy.
      (1)   No land shall be occupied or used in a manner different from that
existing on the effective date of this section, and no structure hereafter
erected or altered shall be occupied or used in whole or in part for any
purpose until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Zoning
Administrator and/or Building Inspector, stating that the structure or land
improvement complies with all the building and zoning laws and with all of the
provisions of this chapter. No change of use shall be made in any structure or
land improvement or part thereof, now or hereafter erected or altered, without
an occupancy permit having been issued by the Zoning Administrator and/or
Building Inspector, and no permit shall be issued to make such change unless it
is in conformity with this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
continuance of the present occupancy or use of any existing structure or land
improvement, except as may be necessary for the safety of life and property.
      (2)   Application for a certificate of occupancy shall be made to the
Zoning Administrator and/or Building Inspector and shall be issued within ten
days after the erection or alteration of the structure has been completed. A
record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file, and copies shall
be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest
in the land or structure affected.
      (3)   Pending the issuance of a regular certificate of occupancy, a
temporary permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator and/or Building
Inspector; this permit to be valid for a period not to exceed six months from
its date, during the completion of any structure or land improvement or during
partial occupancy thereof. Application for temporary permit shall be
accompanied with a statement covering the items of work to be completed and the
reasons the temporary permit is requested.
(Prior Code, § 159.170) (Ord. 12-0973, passed 4-4-2012) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.221 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) is established and shall consist of
seven members appointed by the Village President with the consent of the
Village Board of Trustees. All members of the ZBA shall be residents of the
village. All members appointed to the ZBA shall serve terms of one year from
the date of appointment (including appointments made prior to the effective
date of this amended division (A)), and until their successors shall have been
appointed and qualified. As of the effective date hereof, members of the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall be relieved of any obligations as members
of the ZBA and shall thereafter no longer serve or be obligated to serve in
such capacity unless subsequently appointed as set forth herein.
   (B)   Vacancies shall be filled by the Village President with the consent of
the Village Board of Trustees for the unexpired term. Members may be removed by
the Village President and Board of Trustees for cause after written charges
have been filed and after a public hearing has been held by the Village Board
if demanded by the member so charged. Such hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq., but shall not be
subject to the requirements of §
157.229.
   (C)   The Village President shall, with the advice and consent of the
Village Board of Trustees, designate one member of the ZBA as the Chair of the
ZBA, who shall preside over the meetings and proceedings of the ZBA, and be
empowered to compel the attendance of witnesses and administer oaths as
provided by law, and designate one member of the ZBA as the Vice-Chair of the
ZBA, who shall perform the duties of the Chair in the Chair’s absence.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have a recording secretary and may
employ a court reporter who shall make and keep a record of all of its meeting
and official acts. The enforcing officer shall be the recording secretary to
the Board and shall attend all meetings called by the Board. This does not
supersede the enforcement powers or authority of the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   The members of the Zoning Board of Appeals in office, as of the time
of the adoption of this amended division (E), shall be recognized as the
Village Zoning Board of Appeals under the provisions of this chapter and
Chapter 35, and shall serve terms of one year from the date of appointment
(including appointments made prior to the effective date of amended division
(A) above), and until their successors shall have been appointed and qualified.
   (F)   The Zoning Board of Appeals is vested with the following jurisdiction
and authority:
      (1)   To hear and make recommendations on appeals from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator under
this chapter;
      (2)   To hear and recommend upon applications for variations from the
terms provided in this chapter, in the manner prescribed by, and subject to,
the standards established herein; and
      (3)   To hear and recommend all matters referred to it and upon which it
is required to hear under this chapter.
   (G)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall meet as required prior to the
Planning and Zoning Commission regular meetings and at such times and places
within the village as the Zoning Board of Appeals may determine; provided the
same are accessible to the general public. All meetings of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be open to the general public and conducted in accordance with
the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
   (H)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member on every question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating that fact. The Board shall also keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in
the minutes of each case and the reasons for granting or denying each
application shall be specified. Every rule, regulations and every order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
filed in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
   (I)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt its own rules of procedure and
may require submission of any records, plats and other information necessary to
make its determinations. A copy of the rules and procedures and all
recommendations shall be on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
   (J)   The minutes of the Zoning Board of Appeals are to be itemized with
enough detail on the determination and shall be prepared and maintained by
Village Department of Community Development staff.
(Prior Code, § 159.171) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 11-0938, passed
11-2-2011; Ord. 12-0973, passed 4-4-2012; Ord. 12-1013, passed 11-7-2012)
§ 157.222 ZONING VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, after a public hearing, may determine to
recommend a variance to the regulations of this chapter in harmony with their
general purpose and intent, only in the specific instances herein set forth,
where the Zoning Board of Appeals makes findings of fact in accordance with the
standards herein prescribed, and further finds that there are practical
difficulties or particular hardships in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a variation shall be filed in writing with the
Zoning Administrator, and copies thereof delivered to the Zoning Board of
Appeals. The application shall be made on forms provided by the village and
shall contain such information as the Zoning Board of Appeals may, from time to
time, by rule, require. All variations, including those authorized by division
(D) below, on which the Zoning Board of Appeals may act, shall be submitted to
the Zoning Board of Appeals and acted on in a public hearing conducted in
accordance with §
157.229.
   (C)   (1)   Standards. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not recommend a
variance to the regulations of this chapter to the Village Board of Trustees
unless it shall make findings of fact based upon the evidence presented to it
in each specific case that:
         (a)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations of
the district in which it is located;
         (b)   The plight of the property owner is due to unique circumstances;
and
         (c)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      (2)   Supplemental standards. For the purposes of implementing the
provisions of this section, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall also take into
consideration the extent to which the following standards have been met by the
evidence submitted by the applicant:
         (a)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the property owner would result, as distinguished from a mere
inconvenience, if the strict letter of the regulations were not carried out;
         (b)   The conditions on which a petition/application for a variation
is based are unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are
not applicable, generally, to other property within the same zoning
classification;
         (c)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this chapter and
has not been created by any person presently having an interest in the
property;
         (d)   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; and
         (e)   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property or substantially increase the congestion in
the public streets, or increase the danger to the public safety, or
substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may impose such conditions and
restrictions on the premises benefitted by the variation as may be necessary to
comply with the standards established in this section, to reduce or minimize
the effect of the variation on other property in the neighborhood and to better
carry out the general intent of this chapter.
   (E)   Variations from the regulations of this chapter shall only be
recommended by the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with the standards
established in division (C) above, and may be granted by the Village Board of
Trustees only in the following instances:
      (1)   To permit any yard or setback less than the yard or setback
required by the applicable regulations, but not more than 25%;
      (2)   To permit the use of a lot or lots for a use, otherwise prohibited
solely because of insufficient area or widths of the lot or lots, but in no
event shall the respective area and width of the lot or lots be less than 90%
of the required area and width. The percentage set forth in this division is
not to be reduced by any other percentage for minimum lot width and area set
forth by this chapter;
      (3)   To permit the same off-street parking facility to qualify as
required facilities for two or more uses; provided that the substantial use of
the facility by each use does not take place at approximately the same hours of
the same days of the week;
      (4)   To reduce the applicable off-street parking or loading, unloading
and outdoor storage facilities required by not more than one parking space or
loading, unloading and outdoor storage space, or 20% of the applicable
regulations, whichever number is greater;
      (5)   To increase by not more than 25% the maximum distance that required
parking spaces are permitted to be located from the use served;
      (6)   To increase by not more than 20% the gross area or locational
requirements of any signage;
      (7)   To increase by not more than 10% the maximum gross floor area of
any use so limited by the applicable regulations;
      (8)   To vary fence and/or hedge requirements by not more than 20%;
      (9)   To exceed any of the authorized variations allowed under this
division, when a lot of record or a zoning lot, vacant or legally used on the
effective date of this chapter, is, by reason of the exercise of the right of
eminent domain, by any authorized governmental domain proceeding, reduced in
size so that the remainder of the lot of record or zoning lot or structure on
the lot does not conform with one or more of the regulations of the district in
which the lot of record or zoning lot or structure is located; and
      (10)   The concurring vote of four members of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall be necessary to recommend a variation.
   (F)   Variations other than or exceeding those listed above shall only be
granted by the Village Board of Trustees, but only after a public hearing as
set forth herein for an authorized variation. The concurring vote of four of
the elected members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be necessary to
reverse any recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The concurring vote
of the majority of the elected members of the Village Board of Trustees shall
be necessary to approve or concur with the recommendations of the Zoning Board
of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 159.172) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 12-0973, passed 4-
4-2012) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.223 ZONING APPEALS.
   An appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals may be made by any person aggrieved
by a decision of the Zoning Administrator under this chapter and in accordance
with the state statutes and the following provisions.
   (A)   An application for an appeal shall be filed with the Village Clerk
within 45 days of the date of the action from which the appeal is being filed,
and thereafter the Clerk shall forward the application to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for processing.
   (B)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Zoning Administrator from whom the appeal is taken certifies
to the Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with them,
that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in its
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a court of record on application, on
notice to the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time, not to exceed
60 days, for the public hearing on the appeal, and give due notice thereof to
the parties involved, and decide the same within a reasonable time frame. The
Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify,
the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed, as it sees fit, and
to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal was
taken.
   (D)   All applications for appeals shall be accompanied by a fee, consistent
with the fee schedule as adopted by the Village Board of Trustees and as noted
in §
157.228. In addition, the applicant is responsible for any and all review fees,
transcription fees and publication fees that may be incurred by the village.
(Prior Code, § 159.173) (Ord. 12-0973, passed 4-4-2012)
§ 157.224 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION DUTIES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission of the village, which has been duly
created by the Village President, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board of Trustees, shall have the authority, responsibilities and duties as set
forth herein:
   (A)   To hear and report findings and recommendations to the Village
President and Village Board of Trustees on all applications for annexations,
code amendments, planned unit developments, site and landscape plan review,
zoning map amendments and subdivisions (according to Chapter 156) in the manner
prescribed by standards and other regulations set forth herein and elsewhere;
   (B)   To initiate, direct and review, from time to time, studies of the
provisions of this chapter, and to make reports of its recommendations to the
Village President and Board of Trustees at least once each year; and
   (C)   To hear and decide all matters on which it is required to pass under
this chapter. All meetings of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be held
at the call of the Chair and at such time as the Planning and Zoning Commission
may determine. In all official proceedings, the Chair, or in their absence, the
Vice-Chair of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power to
administer oaths and compel by subpoena the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of books and papers. The Planning and Zoning
Commission, shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member on each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indication of that
fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and other official actions. A
copy of every rule or regulation, every appearance, every recommendation,
order, requirements, decision or determination of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall also be kept. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall adopt
its own rules and procedures, not in conflict with this chapter or with
applicable state laws. All hearings shall be open to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 159.174) (Ord. 12-0973, passed 4-4-2012; Ord. 12-1013, passed
11-7-2012)
§ 157.225 ZONING CODE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Zoning map amendments. This section applies to changes in the zoning
designation of individual properties or changes to the zoning district
boundaries and sizes of one or more properties on the zoning map.
      (1)   Map amendments may be proposed by the Village President and Village
Board of Trustees, Planning and Zoning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals,
village staff, Zoning Administrator or individual property owners applying only
for the property they own.
      (2)   An application for a map amendment shall be filed with the village
or the Zoning Administrator. The application shall be accompanied by the plans
or data and any other information, specified by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and shall include a statement in writing by the applicant and
adequate evidence showing that the proposed map amendments will conform to the
standards set forth herein. Copies of the application shall be forwarded by the
Zoning Administrator to the Planning and Zoning Commission with the request to
hold a public hearing.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall conduct a public hearing
in accordance with §
157.229.
      (4)   Upon receipt in proper form of the applications and statement
referred to in division (A)(2) above, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
hold at least one public hearing on the proposed map amendment. However, the
Planning and Zoning Commission may continue from time to time the public
hearing without further notice being published, subject to compliance with the
requirements of the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
      (5)   (a)   Within 45 days after the close of the public hearing on a
proposed map amendment, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall make written
findings of fact and shall submit them together with its recommendations to the
Village President and Village Board of Trustees.
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall make findings based on
the evidence presented to it in each specific case with respect to the
following matters:
            1.   Existing uses of the property within the general area of the
property in question;
            2.   The suitability of the property in question to the land uses
permitted under the existing zoning district or classification in question;
            3.   Length of time the property has remained vacant as zoned in
the context of land development in the general area;
            4.   Community need for the proposed land use;
            5.   Extent to which property values are diminished by a particular
zoning district or classification;
            6.   Extent to which the destruction of the property value of a
property owner benefits the health, safety or general welfare of the public;
            7.   Relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship on an
individual property owner; and
            8.   Consistency and compliance of the proposed use with the
village comprehensive plan, and the current applicability of the comprehensive
plan designation of the property in question.
      (6)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may hear a request for any map
amendment and may recommend a zoning district or classification that is more
restrictive than that requested.
   (B)   Zoning Code text amendments. This section applies to any revision,
change, addition or deletion of text from
Chapter 157.
      (1)   Text amendments may be proposed by the Village President and
Village Board of Trustees, Planning and Zoning Commission, Zoning Board of
Appeals, village staff or the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall conduct a public hearing
in accordance with §
157.229.
      (3)   Within 45 days after the close of the public hearing on a proposed
text amendment, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall make written findings
of fact and shall submit them together with its recommendations to the Village
President and Village Board of Trustees.
   (C)   For each application for a zoning text or map amendment, the Planning
and Zoning Commission shall report to the Village President and Board of
Trustees its findings and recommendations, including the stipulations of
additional conditions, and guarantees that these conditions will be complied
with, when they are deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest.
The Village President and Board of Trustees may grant or deny any application
for an amendment; provided that in the event of written protest against any
proposed map amendment signed and acknowledged by the property owners of 20% of
the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, and filed
with the Village Clerk, then such map amendment shall not be passed except by a
favorable vote of two-thirds of the Trustees of the village then holding
office.
   (D)   A concurring vote of a majority of those members present at the
meeting with a minimum of three concurring votes shall be required to recommend
granting or denying an application for an amendment.
   (E)   The report to the Village President and Board of Trustees shall
contain the number present and the number of votes for or against the motion.
   (F)   The Village President and Board of Trustees, upon receiving the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, may grant or deny the
proposed amendment in accordance with applicable state law, or may refer to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for further consideration.
   (G)   If an application for a proposed amendment had not received a final
action by the Village Board of Trustees within six months from the date on
which the application was received by the Village President and Board of
Trustees, it shall be deemed to have been denied.
(Prior Code, § 159.175) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 12-0973, passed 4-
4-2012; Ord. 12-1013, passed 11-7-2012)
§ 157.226 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   (1)   The development and execution of a zoning ordinance or code is
based on the division of the village into districts. Within these districts,
the use of the land and buildings and the location of buildings and structures
in relation to the land are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however,
that there are uses which, because of their unique characteristics, cannot be
properly classified in any particular district or districts without
consideration, in each case, as to the impact of those use on neighboring land
and of the public need for the particular use at the particular location.
      (2)   Such special uses fall into two categories:
         (a)   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest; and
         (b)   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual
nature that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to
their impact on neighboring properties or public facilities.
   (B)   Any person owning or having an interest in the subject property may
file an application to use the land for one or more of the special uses
provided for in this chapter in the zoning district in which the land is
situated.
   (C)   An application for a special use or expansion of a special use shall
be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by those plans,
data and fees prescribed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and/or this
chapter.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the application referred to in division (C) above, the
Zoning Administrator shall provide notice for a public hearing in accordance
with §
157.229.
   (E)   For each application for a special use permit, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall report to the Village President and Board of Trustees its
findings and recommendations, including the stipulations of additional
conditions, and guarantees that these conditions will be complied with, when
they are deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest. The
Village President and Board of Trustees may grant or deny any application for a
special use permit.
   (F)   No special use permit shall be recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission unless they have found the following to be evident:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be unreasonably detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
morals, comfort or general welfare;
      (2)   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already permitted, nor
substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood;
      (3)   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
in the district;
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage or other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress or
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets; and
      (6)   The special use shall in all other respects conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as those
regulations may in each instance be modified by the Village Board pursuant to
the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 159.176) (Ord. 12-0973, passed 4-4-2012)
§ 157.227 ANNEXATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All annexation agreements shall be initiated by the filing of a
petition with the Village Clerk and Zoning Administrator. This application/
petition shall be verified under oath by all the recorded title owners,
including mortgage holders, of all the lands included within the annexation
agreement.
   (B)   All petitions for annexation, requesting a zoning district/
classification other than the zoning district/ classification assigned to the
lands annexed to the village, or for variations, special uses and planned unit
developments, shall be processed in the same manner as a petition for a request
for zoning amendments or variations, as provided herein for lands within the
jurisdictional limits of the village. All request for zoning amendments or
variations shall be accompanied by the fees as provided in §
157.228. The fees shall be paid at the time of filing the petition/application
for annexation. The Planning and Zoning Commission, after due consideration and
a public hearing on the request for zoning amendment or variance incidental to
and part of the petition/application for annexation and conducted in accordance
with the requirements of §
157.229, shall make specific findings of facts and recommendations with respect
to zoning or variances upon the property included within the annexation
agreement, as in all cases within the jurisdictional limits of the village.
   (C)   At the conclusion of the public hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Commission of the village, and upon the Planning and Zoning Commission
reporting its specific findings and recommendations, the village shall cause a
public hearing on the petition for annexation to be conducted before the
Village Board of Trustees in accordance with the requirements of §
157.229.
   (D)   In all cases of petitions/applications for annexation which do not
include requests for zoning districts/classifications, other than those
assigned to property annexed by the Village Board of Trustees, or have a
request for a variation, the Village President and Board of Trustees may refer
the petition/application to the Planning and Zoning Commission for study/review
and recommendations. Upon receiving the recommendations of the Planning and
Zoning Commission, the village shall cause a public hearing on the petition for
annexation to be conducted before the Village Board of Trustees in accordance
with the requirements of §
157.229.
(Prior Code, § 159.177) (Ord. 06-0369, passed 2-1-2006; Ord. 12-0973, passed 4-
4-2012)
§ 157.228 APPLICATION FEES AND OTHER CHARGES.
   The Mayor and Village Board of Trustees shall establish a schedule of fees,
charges and expenses for amendments, special uses, variances, site plan review
and all other matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees shall be
posted in the Office of the Village Clerk and may be altered or amended from
time to time by the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees. The village shall be
entitled to suspend or withhold the issuance of any relevant permits or
approvals; the conduct of any service, process, review or action; or the review
and consideration of any application in any case where the person or entity
seeking the same shall become more than 30 days delinquent in the payments of
any fees or monies owed to the village for any purpose whatsoever, or in the
performance of any other obligation owed to the village, whether or not the
delinquency in question arises from or relates to the permit, approval, action,
process, review, service or application in question, and without regard to the
source of the underlying payment or performance obligation.
(Prior Code, § 159.178) (Ord. 12-0973, passed 4-4-2012)
§ 157.229 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   For any public hearing required under this chapter, the following provisions
shall apply.
   (A)   Public hearing notice and notification.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator or their designee shall publish a “notice
of public hearing” on any application for which it is required under this
chapter, and cause the placement of such public hearing as an item on the
agenda of the public body of the village conducting the hearing at issue.
      (2)   Said notice shall include the following information:
         (a)   Date, time and location where the hearing is to be held;
         (b)   An identifiable common address of the parcel and the property
index number (PIN) of the parcel. If no common address is available, a legal
description must be provided;
         (c)   The present zoning of the parcel and a brief statement of the
intended action being applied for; and
         (d)   The address and telephone number where copies of the
application, plans and proposals may be reviewed or obtained.
      (3)   Notice shall be published at least 15 days, but not more than 30
days, prior to the hearing in a paper of general circulation within the
village.
      (4)   Notice shall be mailed at least 15 days, but not more than 30 days,
prior to the hearing to all of the property owners within 250 feet of the
parcel, excluding public rights-of-way, by certified mail, return receipt
requested. When the application includes the annexation of territory to the
village, notice shall be mailed to all of the taxing bodies of the parcel to be
annexed.
      (5)   Public notice of the agenda for the meeting of the public body of
the village conducting the hearing shall also be posted at the Village Hall
and/or other location where the meeting and hearing are to be conducted and the
village website not less than 48 hours prior to the conduct of the meeting and
hearing in question.
      (6)   At least 15 days, but not more than 30 days, prior to the hearing,
a sign shall be posted on the parcel, viewable from the public right-of-way,
indicating that the parcel is subject to a public hearing. Such sign shall
remain on the property until the hearing, and any continuances thereof, is
concluded. In the event that the parcel does not front a public right-of-way or
that the application covers multiple parcels, the Zoning Administrator may post
additional signs as reasonably required to ensure adequate notice of the
application to the public.
      (7)   In the event that a public hearing for which notice has been
properly provided in accordance with the above requirements is continued to or
is to be reconvened at a future date, no additional notice of the continuance
or reconvening of the public hearing shall be required as long as the
continuance or reconvening of the public hearing in question is to a date and
time certain that was publicly announced during the original opening or
convening of the public hearing in question.
   (B)   Rules of procedure for public hearings.
      (1)   Registration of public participants. Anyone who wishes to speak or
testify at the public hearing must sign-in prior to the commencement of the
public hearing on the sign-up cards or sheets available at the front door of
the meeting room. Speakers shall provide their names and indicate the topic or
topics that they desire to address.
      (2)   Conduct of hearing.
         (a)   The Chair may impose reasonable limitations on evidence or
testimony presented by persons and parties, such as barring repetitious,
irrelevant or immaterial testimony. Each individual (other than an applicant)
shall have ten minutes to present their testimony. The meeting or hearing shall
not be governed by strict rules of evidence; however, irrelevant, immaterial or
unduly repetitious evidence shall not be admissible or taken. The Chair shall
rule on all questions related to the admissibility or materiality of evidence
which ruling may be overruled by a majority vote of the members of the body or
board present. The Chair may impose reasonable conditions on the hearing
process and grant additional time for evidence and testimony, based on the
following factors:
            1.   The complexity of the issue;
            2.   Whether the witness possesses special expertise;
            3.   Whether the testimony reflects a matter of taste or personal
opinion or concerns a disputed issue of fact;
            4.   The degree to which the witness’ testimony relates to the
factors to be considered in approving or denying the proposal; and
            5.   Such other factors as are appropriate for the hearing.
         (b)   The Chair may take such actions as are required to maintain an
orderly and civil hearing. Discourtesy or disorderly conduct shall be deemed a
breach of order, and such misconduct shall be dealt with as appropriate,
including, but not limited to, expulsion from the hearing. All persons
presenting evidence or testimony, or who are otherwise participating in the
hearing shall first be recognized by the Chair prior to proceeding, and shall
either direct their remarks to the Chair, the public body or direct their
questions to a witness, as the case may be, and shall refrain from engaging in
colloquy or debate with members of the audience. Likewise, all members of the
audience not engaged in presenting testimony or evidence or otherwise
recognized by the Chair to speak shall refrain from colloquy, debate or
exclamation until such time as they may be so engaged or recognized.
         (c)   All persons offering testimony at a public hearing shall testify
under oath. People participating shall identify themselves for the record,
giving their name and address, either orally or in writing, and indicate if an
attorney represents them.
         (d)   The order of presentation of evidence at a public hearing or
meeting shall generally be as follows, but may be modified as determined
appropriate by the Chair:
            1.   Identification of applicant;
            2.   Statement of the Chair or designee regarding the nature of the
case, relief sought;
            3.   Submittal of proof of notice;
            4.   Introduction of application by village staff;
            5.   Presentation of evidence and testimony by applicant;
            6.   Review of application and comment by village staff or
consultants;
            7.   Questions regarding application by village elected or
appointed officials;
            8.   Questions and comments regarding application by members of
public;
            9.   Presentation of testimony and evidence by others relating to
the application;
            10.   Questions by village elected or appointed officials or
applicant regarding testimony and evidence by others;
            11.   Applicant response to questions and comments;
            12.   In some cases, re-examination may be allowed by the Chair;
however, re-examination shall be limited to the scope of matters raised on
cross-examination; and
            13.   At any point in the proceedings, the Chair or other village
elected or appointed officials may call upon witnesses who have not previously
testified, such as village staff and village consultants. The elected or
appointed officials, staff and consultants of the village may ask questions at
any time during the hearing or meeting.
         (e)   At the conclusion of an evidentiary portion of a public hearing,
the Chair or body present may move to close the public hearing, move to
deliberate on the evidence presented or move to continue the hearing to a date
time and location certain.
(Prior Code, § 159.179) (Ord. 12-0973, passed 4-4-2012; Ord. 14-1136, passed 9-
17-2014)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with, or who resists enforcement of, any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to a fine not less than $50 nor more than $750
for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 159.999)
APPENDIX A: FIGURES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4785.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4783.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4781.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4779.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4777.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4775.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4773.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4771.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4769.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4767.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4765.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4763.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4761.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4759.png]
Figure 26
Main East-West Roadways in the Romeoville Planning Boundary
Road Jurisdiction Classification
Figure 26
Main East-West Roadways in the Romeoville Planning Boundary
Road                      Jurisdiction               Classification
Renwick Road / County     Will County                Major Arterial Route
Route 36
135th Street / Romeo Road Village of Romeoville      Secondary Arterial Route
Airport Road              Village of Romeoville      Secondary Arterial Route
Taylor Road               Village of Romeoville      Secondary Arterial Route
                                                     and Major Collector Route
Normantown Road           Will County and Village of Secondary Arterial Route
                          Romeoville                 and Major Collector Route
Remington Boulevard       Village of Romeoville      Major Collector Route
Crossroads Parkway        Village of Romeoville      Major Collector Route
Bluff Road                Village of Romeoville      Major Collector Route
Figure 27
Main North-South Roadways In the Romeoville Planning Boundary
Road Jurisdiction Classification
Figure 27
Main North-South Roadways In the Romeoville Planning Boundary
Road                            Jurisdiction          Classification
Interstate 55 / Stevenson       State of Illinois     Interstate Freeway and
Expressway                                            Expressway Route
Weber Road / County Route 88    Will County           Major Arterial Route
IL Route 53 / Joliet Road /
Independence Boulevard /        State of Illinois     Major Arterial Route
Bolingbrook Drive
New Avenue                      State of Illinois     Secondary Arterial Route
Veterans Parkway / Luther Drive Village of Romeoville Secondary Arterial Route
South Creek Parkway             Village of Romeoville Secondary Arterial Route
Budler Road                     Village of Romeoville Major Collector Route
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4757.png]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 159, App. A) (Ord. 09-0800, passed 12-16-2009; Ord. 22-1764,
passed 9-21-2022)
APPENDIX B: IMAGES
   (A)   From §
157.101(B)(9).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4811.png]
 
   (B)   From §
157.101(C)(2)(c)1.a.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4809.png]
 
   (C)   From §
157.101(C)(3)(c)2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4807.png]
 
   (D)   From §
157.101(C)(6)(c)1.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4805.png]
 
   (E)   From §
157.101(C)(6)(c)2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4803.png]
 
   (F)   From §
157.101(C)(6)(c)4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4801.png]
 
   (G)   From §
157.101(C)(8)(c)4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4799.png]
 
   (H)   From §
157.101(C)(11)(d)7. Figure 11-1.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4797.png]
 
   (I)   From §
157.101(C)(11)(c)7. Figure 11-4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4795.png]
 
   (J)   From §
157.101(C)(13)(c)2.c.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4793.png]
 
   (K)   From §
157.101(C)(13)(c)3.c.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4791.png]
 
   (L)   From §
157.101(C)(14)(c)1.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4789.png]
 
   (M)   From §
157.123(C).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f8556bd59a275219789fa04b761b3b36161e0f09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4787.png]
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 159, App. B) (Ord. 22-1764, passed 9-21-2022)
APPENDIX C: SUMMARY TABLE AND LAND USE TABLE
Summary Table - Residential Site & Structure Requirements
         Lot                      Maximum                            Setbacks:
Zoning   Area Lot   Lot   Maximum Lot      Minimum   F.A.R. Building            Corner      1 BR 2  3  4  5
District (Sq. Width Depth         Coverage Landscape        Height   Front Side Side   Rear (Sq. BR BR BR BR
         Ft.)                                                                               Ft.)
Summary Table - Residential Site & Structure Requirements
            Lot                        Maximum                            Setbacks:
Zoning      Area   Lot   Lot   Maximum Lot      Minimum   F.A.R. Building               Corner      1 BR
District    (Sq.   Width Depth         Coverage Landscape        Height   Front Side    Side   Rear (Sq. 2 BR  3 BR  4 BR  5 BR
            Ft.)                                                                                    Ft.)
                                                                 2-1/
E-R. Estate 43,560 200’210’40%     50%      50%       0.60   2        50’ 20’   50’  40’N/A  1,800 2,000 2,400 2,800
Residential                                                      stories
                                                                 or 30 ft
R-1, Single                                                      2-1/
Family      20,000 125’160’40%     50%      50%       0.60   2        40’ 15’   40’  35’N/A  1,600 1,825 2,000 2,200
Residential                                                      stories
                                                                 or 30 ft
R-2, Single                                                      2-1/
Family      15,000 100’150’40%     50%      50%       0.60   2        35’ 15’   35’  30’N/A  1,375 1,600 1,825 2,000
Residential                                                      stories
                                                                 or 30 ft
R-3, Single                                                      2-1/
Family      10,000 80’ 125’40%     50%      50%       0.60   2        30’ 10’   30’  25’N/A  1,200 1,500 1,800 2,000
Residential                                                      stories
                                                                 or 30 ft
R-4, Single                                                      2-1/
Family      8,000  75’ 105’40%     50%      50%       0.60   2        25’ 10’   25’  25’N/A  1,200 1,375 1,600 1,800
Residential                                                      stories
                                                                 or 30 ft
R-5, Single                                                      2-1/
Family      6,500  65’ 100’40%     50%      50%       0.65   2        25’ 5’/ 1525’  20’N/A  1,100 1,200 1,300 N/A
Residential                                                      stories
                                                                 or 30 ft
R-5A,                                                            2-1/
Single      6,500  65’ 100’40%     50%      50%       0.65   2        25’ 5’    25’  20’N/A  1,100 1,200 1,300 N/A
Family                                                           stories
Residential                                                      or 30 ft
R-6,                                                             2-1/           5’/15             N/A  det.  det.  det.  det.
Attached                                                         2              det.                     2,000 2,000 2,000 2,000
Single      5,500  55’ 90’ 40%     50%      50%       0.65   stories  25’ 10’   20’  20’     att.  att.  att.  att.
Family                                                           or 30 ft       att.                N/A  1,600 1,700 1,800 1,800
Residential
R-7,                                                             3-1/
Multiple    4,000  50’ 80’ 40%     50%      50%       0.65   2        25’ 10’   20’  20’700  900   1,100 N/A   N/A
Family                                                           stories
Residential                                                      or 40 ft
All numbers reflect minimum requirements; except building coverage, lot coverage, and building heights, which are maximum
requirements. LAND USE CHART
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 159, App. C)
APPENDIX D: PAST HISTORIES TABLE
PAST HISTORIES TABLE.
Ord.No. Description of Ordinance
Ord.No.   Description of Ordinance
          Ordinance amending
936-85    Chapter 157, providing for regulations of vehicle parking within
          certain zoning districts
938-85    Ordinance amending Alley requirements within
          Chapter 157
944-86    Ordinances amending
          Chapter 157 under P-1 Public/Private Land Conservation District
950-86    Ordinance amending
          Chapter 157, Section 157.116, Temporary use of portable signs
          Ordinance amending
951-86    Chapter 157, providing for the regulation of the placement of
          Satellite Dish Antennas
          Ordinance amending
959-86    Chapter 157 Section
          157.163 providing for the revisions to planning, subdivision and
          zoning fees
982-87    Ordinance amending certain provisions of
          Chapter 157
987-87    Ordinance amending Business and Manufacturing District Regulations
988-87    Ordinance establishing the Phelps/Spangler Homestead. Buildings as an
          official landmark
1026-88   Ordinance amending
          Chapter 157 providing for Residential Zoning Districts
1034-88   Ordinance adopting the Official Zoning Map of the Village
          Ordinance amending
1050-88   Chapter 157, Section
          157.080 providing for the Planned Business District (PB)
1059-88   Ordinance amending
          Chapter 157, Section 157.091 regarding “pole buildings”
2052-90   Ordinance codifying the “Code of Ordinances” for the Village
2059-90   Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Section
          157.020 regarding Satellite Dishes
2061-90   Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Section
          157.030 regarding Fences and Hedges
2074-91   Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Section
          157.081 creating the University District (UD)
2075-91   Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Section
          157.083 creating the Airport District-2 (AD-2)
2076-91   Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Section
          157.081 creating the Airport District-1 (AD-1)
2092-91   Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Section
          157.080 regarding the Planned Business District (PB)
2105-2-91 Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Section
          157.161 Fee Schedule
          Ordinance providing for public notification on annexations,
2122-91   rezonings, amendments to code or map, planned unit developments,
          special use permits and zoning variances
R. 790-91 Resolution adopting the “Official Zoning Map”
2164-92   Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Section
          157.161 Fee Schedule
R. 811-92 Resolution adopting the “Official Zoning Map”
2191-1-92 Ordinance amending
          Chapter 157, Section 157.153. Subsection (G) Zoning Board of Appeals
          Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Sections 157.056, 157.057, 157.058,
2220-93   157.059,
          157.060,
          157.061 Minimum Dwelling Unit Size
2241-93   Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Section
          157.161 Fee Schedule
2298-94   Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Section
          157.072 adding “Dog Groomers” as a permitted use
          Ordinance amending Chapter 157, Sections
          157.003 Definitions,
2314-95   157.020 Accessory Uses and Buildings,
          157.071 B-1 Local Shopping District 157.152 Appearance Review,
          157.161 Fee Schedule
2411-96   Ordinance adopting the “Official Zoning Map”
2426-96   Ordinance amending
          Chapter 157, Section 157.059(G) Lot Coverage
2459-97   Ordinance amending
          Chapter 157, All sections, see filed Ordinance
2671-99   Ordinance of New Fee Schedules (taking fees out of the Zoning
          Ordinance, see Ordinance 2671-99)
          Ordinance amending
2691-99   Chapter 157, Accessory Structures and Uses, Tents, Lot Coverage, et
          al
          Ordinance amending
2715-99   Chapter 157, Landscaping, Personal Communications Facilities,
          Automobiles Uses, et al
2734-00   Amending Zoning Ordinance
2762-00   Amending Zoning Ordinance
          Ordinance amending
2775-00   Chapter 157, Parking Setbacks, Lot Coverage, Truck Trailer Storage/
          Parking, Outdoor Eating Areas, et al
          Ordinance amending Section
0015-01   157.003 and
          157.037, Flex space
0061-01   Fences and hedges
0051-02   R-5A single family 02-37A
0052-02   B-2, B-3, B-4, P-B 02-37B
0053-02   Campaign Signs Text 02-37C
0054-02   Accessory Structures 02-37D
0104-02   E-R Text Amendments 02-67A
03-?      Fences on through lots 02-60
0025-03   Lakewood Center Retail 02-34B
0039-03   Inflatable Signage 03-25B
0047-03   Amending Zoning Ordinance
0048-03   Planned Unit Development Standards 03-49A
03-0059   Expanded Rear Yard
03-0060   Yard Def. in the R5-A
03-102    DD. Downtown District 03-95A, B
04-0110   Tree Preservation 03-97A
04-0116   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment 04-07A
04-0117   Design Guidelines for Manufacturing/Office/Warehouse Buildings 04-07B
04-0118   Manufacturing Districts 04-07C
04-0119   Yard Obstructions 04-07D
04-0120   Self-Service Storage Facility 04-07E
04-0132   Non-Conforming Uses 04-12
04-0144   Signage Text Amendment 04-28A
04-0172   PODS Text Amendment 04-66A
04-0184   Decks
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 159, App. D)
CHAPTER 158: OFFICIAL LANDMARK DESIGNATIONS
Section
   
158.01   Declaration of policy
   
158.02   Authority to designate landmarks
   
158.03   Procedure
   
158.04   Notice
   
158.05   Criteria
   
158.06   Final notice to property owner
   
158.07   Regulation of construction, alteration and demolition of landmark
properties
   
158.08   Appeals
§ 158.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is found and declared that in the village the movements and shifts of
population and the changes in residential, commercial and industrial use and
customs tend to threaten with disappearance areas, places, buildings,
structures, works of art and other objects having a special historical,
community or aesthetic interest or value and whose preservation and continued
utilization are necessary and desirable to sound community planning and the
welfare of the residents of this village. The authority provided in this
chapter is directed to such ends, and the use of the rights and powers herein
provided for the preservation and continued utilization of such property is
declared to be a public use essential to the public interest of this village.
(Prior Code, § 161.01) (Ord. 925, passed 7-24-1985)
§ 158.02 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE LANDMARKS.
   (A)   Village Board. The Village Board shall have the power to provide for
official landmark designation by ordinance, of areas, places, buildings,
structures, works of art and other objects having a special historical,
community or aesthetic interest or value; and in connection with such areas,
places, buildings, structures, works of art and other objects so designated by
ordinance, whether owned or controlled privately or by any public body; to
provide special conditions; to impose regulations governing construction,
alteration, demolition and use; to deny application for building demolition
permits and building permits to add to, modify or remove a portion of any
landmark building; and to adopt other additional measures appropriate for their
preservation, protection, enhancement, rehabilitation, reconstruction,
perpetuation or use, which additional measures may include, but are not limited
to, the authority given to all municipalities by 65 ILCS 5/11-48.2-2.
   (B)   Other village commission. The Village Board may at any time, by
ordinance, create a new or special commission, board or department, or
designate an existing commission, board or department to administer the
foregoing powers and purposes in lieu of the Village Board or as advisory
assistant to the Village Board, in accordance with the authority found in 65
ILCS 5/11-48.2-3.
(Prior Code, § 161.02) (Ord. 925, passed 7-24-1985)
§ 158.03 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any individual or group of individuals wishing to have a site
designated as an official landmark shall make application to the village on a
form to be developed by the village staff. The Village Board may also initiate
application on its own motion. The application shall describe the site to be
designated and shall include a detailed statement of the reasons why the
applicant believes the site should be designated as an official landmark.
   (B)   Each application shall be scheduled for informal review at a public
meeting of the Village Board. At the conclusion of that informal review, if the
Village Board believes that the application merits further consideration, it
shall schedule a public hearing, at which time testimony may be given for and
against such designation. At the conclusion of that public hearing, the Village
Board may either deny that application, instruct the Village Attorney to draft
the necessary ordinance establishing the property as an official landmark,
refer the matter for additional study or advice or take any other action
authorized by 65 ILCS 5/11-48.2-2. When designating any property as an official
landmark, the Village Board shall support that designation with findings of
fact based upon testimony given at the public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 161.03) (Ord. 925, passed 7-24-1985)
§ 158.04 NOTICE.
   No action taken by the village under this chapter directing a private owner
to do or refrain from doing any specific thing, or refusing to permit a private
owner to do some specific thing they desire to do, in connection with property
designated by ordinance hereunder, shall be taken by the village except after
due notice to the owner and opportunity for the owner to be heard at the public
hearing required under §
158.03. Due notice shall mean a minimum of 15 days’ written notice to the
actual owner of record of the subject property. Such notice shall either be
hand delivered, or mailed by certified or registered mail. The 15-day period
shall begin to run from the date the notice is delivered to the owner of record
or the date the notice is deposited by either certified or registered mail in
the United States Mail addressed to the owner of record at their place of
residence. If the address of one or more owners of the subject property cannot
be located by the village, notice of the public hearing may be given to any
such owner by publication of the time and place of the hearing and the purpose
of the hearing, including the commonly known address and legal description of
the subject property, in a newspaper of general circulation within the village,
at least 15 days prior to the public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 161.04) (Ord. 925, passed 7-24-1985)
§ 158.05 CRITERIA.
   In determining whether property should be given an official landmark
designation, the Village Board, or any other commission, board or department
acting under the authority of this chapter, shall consider the following
criteria, and shall also consider any additional justification for granting or
denying an application under this chapter as found in the application itself or
as established or suggested by the public hearing required to be held under
this chapter:
   (A)   The site has major architectural or aesthetic significance to the
community;
   (B)   The site is representative of the distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural type, style, method of construction or of local materials or
craftsmanship;
   (C)   The site is the work of or associated with a national or locally known
architect or builder;
   (D)   The site is an example of a particular style in terms of detail,
material or professional skill or proficiency, with little or no alteration to
the original structure;
   (E)   The site has a strong association with the life or activity of a
person or persons who have contributed to or participated in the historical
events of the nation, state or community;
   (F)   The site is associated with an antiquated use due to technological or
social change in the nation, state or community;
   (G)   The site is or has been in the past the residence of a prominent
figure; and
   (H)   The site is representative of an historical era in the development of
this village.
(Prior Code, § 161.05) (Ord. 925, passed 7-24-1985)
§ 158.06 FINAL NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER.
   Should the Village Board adopt an ordinance designating a property as an
official landmark, a certified copy of that ordinance shall be furnished to the
property owner within ten days after its effective date. Failure of the
property owner to receive the ordinance within the ten-day period shall not
invalidate the force and effect of that ordinance. This section shall be
satisfied by personal delivery, or by the depositing of the certified copy in
the United States Mail by either certified or registered mail within the ten-
day period, addressed to the owner at their last known place of residence or
business or if not known, then in care of the address of the landmark property
itself.
(Prior Code, § 161.06) (Ord. 925, passed 7-24-1985)
§ 158.07 REGULATION OF CONSTRUCTION, ALTERATION AND DEMOLITION OF LANDMARK
PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALTERATION. Any act or process which changes one or more of the exterior
features of the property and improvements which have been designated for
preservation under this section.
      CONSTRUCTION. Any act or process which requires a building permit.
      DEMOLITION. Any act or process which destroys or removes, in whole or in
part, an improvement which has been designated for preservation under this
section.
      EXTERIOR FEATURES. Includes the architectural character, the general
composition and the general arrangement of the exterior of an improvement,
including the kind, color and texture of building materials, and the type and
character of windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, fences and appurtenant
elements visible from public streets and thoroughfares.
   (B)   Scope of regulation. No alterations, interior construction which
affects structural members, exterior construction or exterior demolition may be
performed on property and improvements which have been designated as official
landmarks under this chapter, unless first approved by the Village Board.
   (C)   Approval procedure.
      (1)   Applications for alterations, interior construction which affects
structural members, exterior construction or demolition of official landmarks
shall be filed with the Village Manager on forms provided by the village. The
applicant shall furnish such information, plans, specifications and other
documents as the Village Manager or Village Board may reasonably request in
connection with the application.
      (2)   The Village Board shall review the application within 30 days of
its having been filed with the Village Manager, and shall approve the request
if it finds that the proposed work is in accordance with the applicable
criteria hereinafter established in this chapter. Should the Village Board
determine that the proposed work is not in accordance with the criteria
hereinafter established, then it shall schedule a public hearing to be held
within the next 60 days. The applicant shall be notified, in writing, of the
time, date, place and purpose of the hearing, by certified mail, properly
addressed to the applicant at the address given on the application. Notice of
that public hearing shall also be given by certified mail to the owners of
record as shown on the tax assessor’s most recent rolls, of property within 250
feet in each direction of the subject landmark. All such notices shall be
mailed not more than 30 days nor less than ten days in advance of the hearing.
Also, notice shall be published at least once not less than 15 days nor more
than 30 days in advance of the hearing in a paper of general circulation in the
village. The hearing may be continued from time to time without further notice.
      (3)   At that public hearing, the applicant, all notified property owners
and all other interested parties shall be allowed to speak. A record of the
proceeding shall be made and maintained by the Village Clerk.
      (4)   The Village Board shall render a decision to approve, deny or
modify the applicant’s request on the basis of the criteria hereinafter
established within 30 days after the conclusion of the public hearing. The
Village Board’s decision shall be in writing and shall include findings of fact
in support thereof. A copy of the decision shall be mailed to the applicant.
      (5)   If the proposed work is approved, no change may be made in that
proposed work without the submission of a new application. If the proposed work
is denied, the same application shall not be resubmitted within the next 12
months upon the written request of an applicant indicating the incorporation of
changes in plans and specifications as may have been recommended by the Village
Board.
   (D)   Approval criteria. The Village Board shall consider, where applicable,
the following criteria in determining whether or not proposed work, including
demolition, is compatible and appropriate:
      (1)   Whether the proposed work will highlight or positively enhance any
exterior feature of the property and improvements;
      (2)   Whether any new improvements will have a positive effect and
harmonize with the external appearance of neighboring improvements;
      (3)   The extent and process of any proposed demolition and subsequent
changes in landscaping;
      (4)   Whether the proposed work will result in the maintenance or
addition of site landscaping and other vegetation;
      (5)   A report from the Building Inspector on the state of repair and
structural stability of the improvement under construction;
      (6)   Any changes in the essential character of the area which would
occur as a result of approval of the application;
      (7)   Whether the proposed work is in accordance with the United States
Secretary of the Interior’s standards for rehabilitation as found in 36 C.F.R.
pt. 67, as amended from time to time;
      (8)   Whether the proposed work conforms to any design criteria or other
specific guidelines which the Village Board may later adopt; and
      (9)   If the proposal is for complete demolition:
         (a)   Whether, applying the criteria of §
158.05, the village would suffer an irreparable loss;
         (b)   Whether there are other structures in the community having the
same or similar historical background, or whether the subject property is
unique; and
         (c)   Whether the proposed new use of the subject property is
permitted under the village’s zoning regulations.
   (E)   Economic hardship.
      (1)   In addition to the criteria established in this chapter for
approval of construction, alteration and demolition of official landmarks, at
any public hearing held as required in division (C)(2) above, the Village Board
shall also consider any evidence of economic hardship presented by the
applicant or on behalf of the applicant. Evidence of economic hardship, at a
minimum, should consist of an affidavit signed by or on behalf of the
applicant, and should specify the following:
         (a)   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase and the
party from whom purchased, including a description of the relationship, if any,
between the owner and the person from whom the property was purchased;
         (b)   The assessed value of the land and improvements thereon
according to two most recent assessments;
         (c)   Real estate taxes for the previous two years;
         (d)   Annual debt service, if any, for the previous two years;
         (e)   All appraisals obtained within the previous two years by the
owner or applicant in connection with his purchase, financing or ownership of
the property;
         (f)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, and the price
asked;
         (g)   Any consideration by the owner as to profitable adaptive uses
for the property; and
         (h)   If the property is income-producing, the annual gross income
from the property for the previous two years, itemized operating and
maintenance expenses for the previous two years, and annual cash flow, if any,
during the same period.
      (2)   If the Village Board finds that, without approval of the proposed
work, the owner of the subject property would be deprived of all reasonable
beneficial use of or return from the subject property, then the application
shall be delayed for a period not to exceed six months. During this delay
period, the Village Board shall seek to determine a reasonably beneficial use
or a reasonable economic return for the subject property, or to otherwise
preserve the subject property and improvements. These plans may include, but
are not limited to, a relaxation of the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   If at the end of the six-month period, the Village Board has
determined that without approval of the proposed work, the owner of the subject
property would be deprived of all reasonable beneficial use or return from the
property, then the Village Board shall approve the proposed work. If the
Village Board finds otherwise, it shall issue, deny or modify the requested
application as authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 161.07) (Ord. 925, passed 7-24-1985)
§ 158.08 APPEALS.
   An appeal from the final decision of the Village Board under this chapter
shall be taken directly to a court of competent jurisdiction in the manner
prescribed in state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 161.08) (Ord. 925, passed 7-24-1985)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   DEDICATIONS
      
IV.   DISCONNECTING TERRITORY
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   LEASES
      
VII.   PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE
      
VIII.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
IX.   SUBDIVISION REPLATS
      
X.   VACATIONS
      
XI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
XII.   VARIANCES
      
XIII.   SPECIAL USE PERMITS
      
XIV.   FINAL PLATS
      
XV.   SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS
      
XVI.   LETTERS OF CREDIT
      
XVII.   TAX ABATEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
2682- - -    First amendment to annexation agreement dated 4-5-1999 by and between the
99           village and Amli Will County Properties Limited Partnership.
67-01 - -    Third amendment to annexation agreement dated 4-5-1999 by and between the
             village and Amli Will County Properties Limited Partnership.
182   4-22-  Portions of Sec. 33, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E and Sec. 34, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1957
188   6-18-  Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 and 9 in Rogers Subdivision.
      1958
196   1-21-  Portions of Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E and Sec. 34, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1959
197   2-6-   A portion of Sec. 28, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1959
208   9-28-  Lot 7 in Rogers Subdivision.
      1960
-     1-15-  Portions of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E and Sec. 4, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E.
      1964
      1-15-  Portions of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E and Sec. 4, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E,
224   1964   Sec. 33, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E, and land adjacent to Bel Air Theatres Co.
             property.
227   3-3-   A portion of Sec. 33, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1965
241   6-1-   A portion of Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1966
243   8-3-   Sixty acres in Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1966
290   11-19- Twenty-one acres in Sec. 36, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1969
293   1-7-   A portion of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E, and other territory adjacent to
      1970   U.S. Route 66 Alternate (Illinois Route 53).
311   4-14-  A portion of Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1971
323   8-4-   A portion of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E.
      1971
326   8-18-  A portion of Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1971
329   10-20- Portions of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E and Sec. 4, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E.
      1971
330   11-14- Annexation agreement between Romeoville and Commonwealth Edison Co.
      1971
331   2-14-  Portions of Sec. 22, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E and Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E -
      1972   280 acres more or less.
374   9-19-  Portions of Sections 22 and 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E (Herbert G. Rhoads, et
      1973   al.).
383   12-27- Allister Construction Company tract.
      1973
368   3-20-  A portion of Sec. 34, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E - 12.8 acres more or less (Ross
      1974   Development).
396   4-10-  Territory adjacent to IL State Route 53.
      1974
443   1-2-   Territory owned by First National Bank of Joliet, Trust no. 829.
      1975
472   9-17-  Alpike Industries, Inc. tract.
      1975
473   10-1-  Fillup, Inc. tract.
      1975
474   10-1-  A portion of Sec. 23, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E and part of U.S. Highway Route 66
      1975   (A).
484   2-18-  Six acres, more or less, in Sec. 26, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1976
488   4-7-   Approximately 124.5 acres including portions of Hampton Park Subdivision no. 7,
      1976   and Abbott’s Subdivision.
494   4-21-  First amendment to Alderman, et al., annexation of 2-14-1972.
      1976
495   4-21-  Amendment to David Mayes, et al., annexation of 5-3-1971.
      1976
506   7-7-   Agreement with City National Bank as trustee - McPhee Funeral Home.
      1976
507   7-7-   A portion of Sec. 34, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E - 1.1 acres more or less.
      1976
520   11-20- Amendment to Allister Construction Company, tract agreement of 9-19-1973.
      1976
523   2-9-   Amendment to agreement, regarding Marquette Center Business and Industrial
      1977   Park, of February 14, 1972.
527   3-16-  Second amendment to David Mayes, et al., annexation of May 3, 1971.
      1977
531   5-4-   Portions of Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
      1977
555   9-7-   Pre-annexation agreement with Vito Falco.
      1977
556   9-7-   Agreement for the Kirman Farm (amended by Ord. 798).
      1977
567   10-5-  Annexation of the Kirman Farm.
      1977
568   10-5-  Pre-annexation agreement for the premises known as Lewis University.
      1977
576   10-26- Agreement for premises owned by B. Wysocki, E. Ward and W. Ward.
      1977
577   10-26- Agreement for premises owned by B. Wysocki.
      1977
578   10-26- Agreement for premises known as Santa Fe Land Improvement Company.
      1977
579   10-26- Agreement for premises owned by Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America.
      1977
575   11-10- Agreement for annexation of Robert M. Haley Farm.
      1977
583   11-16- Annexation of Robert M. Haley Farm.
      1977
584   11-16- Annexation of Santa Fe Land Improvement Company property.
      1977
585   11-16- Annexation of Natural Gas Pipeline Company property.
      1977
586   11-16- Annexation of B. Wysocki, E. Ward and W. Ward property.
      1977
587   11-16- Annexation of B. Wysocki property.
      1977
595   1-4-   Agreement pertaining to property owned by Commonwealth Edison Company.
      1978
596   1-4-   Agreement for Spangler Tract.
      1978
597   1-4-   Annexation of Commonwealth Edison Company substation.
      1978
601   1-18-  Agreement for James P. Zeiger property, Post no. 3582, VFW, Inc.
      1978
602   2-1-   Annexation of James P. Zeiger property, Post no. 3582, VFW, Inc.
      1978
618   5-17-  Agreement for Grabow Park.
      1978
621   6-7-   Agreement for Apollo Restaurant.
      1978
622   6-21-  Annexation of Spangler property.
      1978
624   7-5-   Amendment to pre-annexation agreement regarding Lewis University.
      1978
625   7-5-   Agreement for Bell Realty property.
      1978
626   7-5-   Annexation of Bell Realty property.
      1978
627   7-5-   Annexation of Vito Falco property.
      1978
628   7-5-   Annexation of Grabow Park.
      1978
629   7-5-   Amendment to pre-annexation agreement for Haley Farm, 11-14-1977.
      1978
630   7-5-   Annexation of Lewis University property.
      1978
637   7-12-  Annexation of Apollo Restaurant property.
      1978
639   7-19-  Annexation of Lewis University property south of Airport Road.
      1978
644   7-26-  Agreement for Gurrie C. Rhoads property.
      1978
670   2-21-  Annexation of Gurrie C. Rhoads property.
      1979
675   3-7-   Annexation of C.P. Hall property. Portions of Sec. 13, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E
      1979   and part of U.S. Highway 66 (A).
676   3-21-  Agreement for property owned by W. Vinckus and B. Vinckus.
      1979
682   4-4-   Annexation of Vinckus property.
      1979
704   12-19- Agreement for premises owned by Will County Board of School Trustees (WILCO).
      1979
705   12-19- Annexation of WILCO property.
      1979
745   8-7-   Agreement for certain premises owned by Stephen S. Ward estate.
      1980
746   8-7-   Annexation of certain property owned by Stephen S. Ward estate.
      1980
750   8-20-  Preannexation agreement for certain premises owned by Joseph Imesch, as
      1980   successor trustee.
751   8-20-  Annexation of certain property owned by Joseph Imesch, as successor trustee.
      1980
779   4-1-   Agreement for annexation of George Hayes and Priscilla Hayes property. Part of
      1981   the west half of the northwest quarter of Sec. 26, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
782   4-15-  Annexation of George Hayes and Priscilla Hayes property. Part of the west half
      1981   of the northwest quarter of Sec. 26, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
795   9-2-   Preannexation agreement for certain premises owned by La Salle National Bank as
      1981   trustee.
797   9-16-  Annexation of certain property owned by La Salle National Bank as trustee.
      1981
798   9-16-  Amendment to the Kirman Farm agreement of 9-7-1977.
      1981
827   7-21-  Amendment to annexation agreement dated 9-2-1981 for certain premises owned by
      1982   Louis J. Osodjan and LaSalle National Bank as trustee.
831   7-28-  Amendment to preannexation agreement dated 8-20-1980 for certain property owned
      1982   by Joseph Imesch, as successor trustee.
859   8-3-   Amendment to annexation agreement dated 8-6-1980 for certain property owned by
      1983   Stephen S. Ward estate.
867   11-2-  Authorizing execution of annexation of certain property owned by George Gee and
      1983   Virginia Mikan.
871   11-16- Annexation of certain property owned by George Gee and Virginia Mikan.
      1983
941-  2-5-   Extending for an additional ten years the terms of certain annexation
86    1986   agreements dated 9-7-1977.
960-  8-6-   Annexation of a one-half-acre parcel in Sec. 34, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
86    1986
962-  8-6-   Annexation of part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E.
86    1986
964-  8-6-   Annexation of part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 26, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
86    1986
966-  8-6-   Annexing, and zoning as R-5 One-Family Residence, parts of the southwest
86    1986   quarter of Sec. 36, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
968-  8-20-  Annexation of part of Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
86    1986
1017- 9-30-  Second amendment to preannexation agreement dated 10-5-1977 for certain
87    1987   property owned by Lewis University, Robert Brugh, Stanley Strzelcki and Brian
             Quirk.
1045- 8-3-   Annexation of part of Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
88    1988
1055- 8-24-  Authorizing execution of annexation of certain property owned by Dura
88    1988   Development Corporation.
1056- 8-24-  Annexation of part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 33, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
88    1988
2004- 6-7-   Annexation of part of Lot 2 in Unit no. 2 of Reeds Crest of Hill Estates
89    1989   Subdivision.
2014- 6-28-  Authorization to execute an annexation agreement between the village and the
89    1989   First Midwest Bank of Joliet and the Commercial National Bank of Berwyn with
             respect to the Kotnour property.
2045- 12-21- Annexing part of the southeast quarter of Sec. 23, the northeast quarter of
89    1989   Sec. 26 and the northwest quarter of Sec. 25, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E of the
             Third Principal Meridian, DuPage Township.
2072- 11-28- Annexing the west 80 acres of the northwest quarter of Section 33, Twp. 37 N,
90    1990   Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
2079- 1-23-  Annexing the following three parcels:
91    1991
           (A) The southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Sec. 16, Twp. 36 N, Range
             10 E.
           (B) The northwest quarter of Sec. 15 and that part of the northeast quarter of
             Sec. 16, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E.
           (C) The south 70 feet of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Sec.
             15, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E.
2082- 1-23-  Annexing part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Sec. 16,
91    1991   containing 40 acres, more or less, of Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E.
2087- 1-23-  Annexing part of the south west quarter of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E and
91    1991   part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E.
2104- 6-19-  Annexation agreement (Colonial Restaurant).
91    1991
2106- 7-10-  Annexing certain property to the village legally described and generally
91    1991   depicted with Exhibits A, B and C to this ordinance (Kotnour).
2108- 7-10-  Annexing certain property to the village legally described and generally
91    1991   depicted with Exhibits A and A-1 to this ordinance (Colonial Steakhouse).
2111- 7-10-  Annexing certain property to the village legally described and generally
91    1991   depicted with Exhibits A and A-1 to this ordinance (Accurate Pump and Tank).
2129- 9-18-  Executing a preannexation agreement between Lewis University and the village
91    1991   and amendment to preannexation agreement between Lewis University, et al. and
             the village dated 10-5-1977.
2134- 10-2-  Annexing certain property to the village legally described and generally
91    1991   depicted with Exhibit A to this ordinance (Port District).
2150- 1-22-  Annexing certain property to the village legally described and generally
92    1992   depicted with Exhibits A and A-1 to this ordinance (Frieh Family General
             Partnership).
2153- 1-22-  Annexing certain property to the village legally described and generally
92    1992   depicted with Exhibits A and A-1 to this ordinance (Industrial Developments
             International).
2207- 3-17-  Executing a preannexation agreement between the village and Robert F. Wagner
93    1993   and Deborah J. Wagner.
2216- 4-21-  Executing a preannexation agreement (Leonard Cox and Margaret Cox).
93    1993
2221- 6-2-   Annexing certain property to the village legally described and generally
93    1993   depicted within the Planning Commissions Report PC-9303 (Peterson - 13247 High
             Road).
2223- 6-2-   Execution of an annexation agreement between the village and Arthur Peterson
93    1993   and Elsie Peterson (Peterson - 13247 S. High Road).
2272- 6-15-  Execution of an annexation agreement regarding certain property owned by Inland
94    1994   Capital Fund, LP.
2273- 6-15-  Annexing certain property to the village legally described and generally
94    1994   depicted with Exhibits A and B to this ordinance (Inland Capital Fund, LP/
             Inland Group, Inc.).
2282- 8-3-   Executing a preannexation agreement regarding certain property owned by Weber
94    1994   Road Venture c/o Marquette Property Investments.
2309- 1-18-  Executing a preannexation agreement regarding certain property owned by Leroy
95    1995   Gaskin.
2310- 2-1-   Annexing certain property owned by Blanche, Earl and Brent Hassert (Hassert
95    1995   Landscape).
             Annexing certain property to the village legally described and generally
2311- 2-1-   depicted within the Planning and Zoning Commissions Report PZC-9443 and
95    1995   Development Review Compliance Reports herewith attached to this ordinance
             (Hassert Landscape - Bluff and Joliet Roads).
2345- 7-12-  Annexing property owned by Helan Ward, consisting of approximately 49 acres
95    1995   located in unincorporated Will County and legally described on Exhibit A to
             this ordinance (Helen Ward).
2348- 7-12-  Annexing real estate owned by Nick Ryan, Marquette Companies, consisting of
95    1995   approximately 76 acres located in unincorporated Will County and legally
             described on Exhibit A to this ordinance (Nick Ryan, Marquette Companies).
2352- 7-12-  Annexing real estate owned by Material Service Corporation consisting of
95    1995   approximately 80 acres located in unincorporated Will County and legally
             described in Exhibit A to this ordinance (Material Service Corporation).
2355- 7-12-  Annexing real estate owned by Nick Ryan, Marquette Companies consisting of
95    1995   approximately 86 acres located in unincorporated Will County and legally
             described in Exhibit A to this ordinance (Nick Ryan, Marquette Companies).
2359- 7-12-  Annexing real estate owned by Material Service Corporation consisting of
95    1995   approximately 102.6 acres located in unincorporated Will County and legally
             described in Exhibit A to this ordinance (Material Service Corporation).
2362- 7-12-  Annexing real estate owned by Zedd Investment, Inc. consisting of approximately
95    1995   80 acres located in unincorporated Will County and legally described in Exhibit
             A to this ordinance (Zedd Investment, Inc.).
2365- 7-12-  Annexing real estate owned by Material Service Corporation consisting of
95    1995   approximately 16.5 acres located in unincorporated Will County and legally
             described in Exhibit A to this ordinance (Material Service Corporation).
2368- 7-12-  Annexing real estate owned by Neumann Homes/Gladys King consisting of
95    1995   approximately 211 acres located in unincorporated Will County and legally
             described in Exhibit A to this ordinance (Neumann Homes/Gladys King).
2349- 7-19-  Annexing the Nick Ryan, Marquette Companies property to the village (PIN
95    1995   numbers attached).
2351- 7-19-  Authorizing concept approval of a preliminary planned unit development for
95    1995   newly annexed territory (Nick Ryan, Marquette Companies).
2353- 7-19-  Annexing the Material Service Corporation property to the village (PIN numbers
95    1995   attached).
2403- 3-6-   Annexing the Dean Johnson/Waver Armstrong property together with those portions
96    1996   of Lockport/Plainfield (151st Street) Road which have not been annexed
             previously.
2450- 12-18- Amending Ord. 2309-95, the pre-annexation agreement between Gaskin/Mikan and
96    1996   the village.
2455- 1-27-  Annexing approximately 67 acres related to the Glahn-Neumann Homes.
97    1997
2457- 1-27-  Directing the execution of the first amendment to the annexation agreement,
97    1997   Ord. 2352-95, between Wespark-Neumann Homes and the village.
2455- 1-27-  Directing the execution of an annexation agreement between the village and
1-97  1997   Margaret R. Glahn and Neumann Homes, Inc. for property consisting of
             approximately 67 acres.
2462- 2-19-  Annexing Weslake Subdivision, as well as those portions of Taylor Road and
97    1997   Interstate 55 adjacent to it.
2470- 4-23-  Annexation agreement between the village and Northern Trust Bank-Lake Forest,
97    1997   owner of the real estate and Cambridge Properties-Carillon, LLC consisting of
             approximately 8.5 acres.
2471- 4-23-  Annexing the Carillon Court to the village.
97    1997
2505- 10-15- Annexation agreement between the village and Operating Engineers, Local 150,
97    1997   Apprenticeship Fund, owner of the real estate consisting of approximately
             ±106.73 acres.
2506- 10-15- Annexing the property owned by the Operating Engineers, Local 150
97    1997   Apprenticeship Program to the village.
2508- 10-15- Annexation agreement between the village and Hartong Farms Enterprises, Inc.,
97    1997   owner of real estate consisting of approximately ±117.63 acres.
2509- 10-15- Annexing the Hartong Farms Enterprises, Inc. property to the village.
97    1997
2511- 10-15- Annexation agreement between the village and Mistwood Golf Course (IL), Inc.
97    1997   for real estate consisting of approximately ±201.7 acres.
2512- 10-15- Annexing the Mistwood Golf Course (IL), Inc. to the village.
97    1997
2514- 10-15- Annexation agreement between the village and Malibu Builders, Inc. for real
97    1997   estate consisting of approximately ±82.983 acres.
2515- 10-15- Annexing the Malibu Bay Subdivision to the village.
97    1997
2517- 10-15- Annexation agreement between the village and Poplar Ridge Estates Development
97    1997   Company for real estate consisting of approximately ±82 acres.
2518- 10-15- Annexing the Heritage Place Subdivision to the village.
97    1997
2529- 1-7-   Annexation agreement between the village and Paul Swanson Associates, Inc. for
98    1998   real estate consisting of approximately ±76.37 acres.
2549- 4-1-   Annexation agreement between the village and First Midwest Bank as Trustee and
98    1998   Walter Vinckus for real estate consisting of approximately ±21 acres.
2550- 4-1-   Annexing First Midwest Bank/Walter Vinckus property to the village.
98    1998
2562- 5-20-  Annexing Paul Swanson/Fairfield Meadows subdivision to the village.
98    1998
2566- 6-3-   Annexing the “International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 150, Local
98    1998   150A, Local 150B, Local 150C Building Corporation to the village.
2568- 6-3-   Annexing Joliet Regional Port District/Lewis University Airport to the village.
98    1998
2571- 7-1-   First amendment to an annexation agreement with Neumann Homes Weslake
98    1998   Subdivision.
2572- 7-1-   Annexing property designated as PINS 06-03-12-300-003-0000.
98    1998
2606- 10-19- Annexation agreement with Neumann Homes, Inc. - Wesglen.
98    1998
2607- 10-19- Annexing property designated as partial of PINS 11-04-07-100-005-0000,
98    1998   approximately 101 acres.
2644- 3-31-  Annexation agreement with Lakewood Falls Phase 5 for approximately 180 acres.
99    1999
2645- 3-31-  Annexing property designated as PINS 06-03-12-300-012-0000, Budler Property -
99    1999   91.15 acres; 06-03-12-400-010-0000, Graham Property - 28.41 acres; 06-03-12-
             400-011-0000, Graham Property - 59.97 acres.
2650- 4-5-   Annexing property designated as PINS 02-31-200-014 and 01-36-400-012.
99    1999
2685- 8-18-  Annexation agreement between the village and Romeoville Properties, LLC for
99    1999   acquisition of real estate described as the southwest corner of Weber Road and
             N. Carillon Drive.
2686- 8-18-  Annexing property designated as PIN 02-31-480-003, southwest corner of Weber
99    1999   Road and N. Carillon Drive.
             First amendment to annexation agreement dated 3-31-1999 by and between the
2695- 9-15-  village and Mary C. Graham, as trustee of the Mary C. Graham revocable trust
99    1999   dated 4-20-1994; Charles H. Budler, as trustee under trust agreement dated 5-
             30-1996; and Lakewood Falls Phase 5, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability company.
2700- 10-6-  Annexation agreement for real estate consisting of approximately ten acres
99    1999   located in unincorporated Will County.
2701- 10-6-  Approving the annexation and zoning of property designated as the east half of
99    1999   the northwest quarter of Sec. 12, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal
             Meridian in Will County.
2713- 12-1-  Annexation agreement between the village and Pizzuti Equities, Inc. to annex
99    1999   property designated as PINS 04-05-100-004-0000 and 04-05-300-005-0000, north of
             Taylor Road.
2723- 12-1-  Annexing certain territory north of Taylor Road, designated as PINS 04-05-100-
99    1999   004-0000 and 04-05-300-005-0000.
2726- 12-15- Amendment to an annexation agreement between the village and Webster Road
99    1999   Venture dated 8-3-1994.
2727- 12-15- Amendment to an annexation agreement between the village and Neumann Homes,
99    1999   Inc. dated 10-19-1998.
2747- 4-15-  Annexation agreement between the village and Lakewood Homes for real estate
00    2000   consisting of approximately 61.44 acres in unincorporated Will County.
2748- 4-15-  Approving the annexation of property located at the north side of Airport Road,
00    2000   immediately east of I-55 and west of Budler Road.
2753- 4-19-  Approving the annexation of property located at the southwest corner of I-55
00    2000   and Weber Road, consisting of approximately two acres.
2756- 5-3-   Amendment to an annexation agreement between the village and Neumann Homes,
00    2000   Inc. dated 7-1-1998.
2760- 5-17-  Annexing certain territory being part of the southeast quarter of Sec. 30, Twp.
00    2000   37 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
2760- 5-17-  Amending the annexation agreement between the village and Amli Will County
00-01 2000   Venture Limited Partnership.
2763- 5-17-  Annexing certain territory known as the former Material Service Railroad right-
00    2000   of-way property.
2765- 5-23-  Annexing approximately 155 acres located in unincorporated Will County,
00    2000   designated as PIN 12-02-28-300-002-0000 and PIN 12-02-28-300-001-0000.
2773- 6-21-  Annexing the south 381.5 feet of the east 422.0 feet of the southwest quarter
00    2000   of Sec. 1, Twp. 36 N, Range 9 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
2774- 8-21-  Annexing property located at the northwest corner of Taylor Road and Old Budler
00    2000   Road, consisting of 3.696 acres and zoned B-2.
2800- 11-1-  Amendment to annexation agreement between the village; Romoeville/TN, LLC; and
00    2000   Pizzuti Management, LLC for the property located at the north and southwest
             corner of Sec. 5, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
2801- 11-1-  Annexing property located on the north side of Normantown Road, west of the
00    2000   Commonwealth Edison right-of-way, consisting of 155 acres, and designated as
             PIN 12-02-28-300-002-0000 and PIN 12-02-28-300-001-0000.
2809- 12-20- Annexation agreement between the village and I-P Weber Road, LLC for the east
00    2000   74 acres of the east half of the southwest quarter of Sec. 7, Twp. 36 N, Range
             10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
2810- 12-20- Annexing property located at the northwest corner of Weber Road and Airport
00    2000   Road, consisting of 74 acres and zoned B-3 and R-4.
      1-24-  Annexation agreement between the village, Taylor Road, LLC and Pizzuti
8-01  2001   Management, LLC for property located at the north and southwest quarter of Sec.
             8, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
      1-24-  Annexation agreement between the village; Pizzuti Land, LLC; and Pizzuti
9-01  2001   Management, LLC for property located at the east half of the southeast quarter
             of Sec. 5, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
10-01 1-24-  Annexation agreement between the village, Spangler, and Pizzuti for property
      2001   located east of Weber Road and north of Taylor Road, consisting of 70 acres.
      1-24-  Annexation agreement between the village, Anthony Bromberek and Kenneth
11-01 2001   Bromberek and Pizzuti Management, LLC for the Pinnacle Business Center/
             Bromberek Property.
      1-24-  Annexation agreement between the village; Pinnacle Land, LLC; and Pizzuti
12-01 2001   Management, LLC for property located at the east half of the northwest quarter
             of Sec. 8, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
             Annexation agreement between the village, First National Bank of Joliet and
13-01 1-24-  Pizzuti Management, LLC for property located at the west half of the northeast
      2001   quarter of Sec. 8 and the west half of the southeast quarter of Sec. 5, Twp. 36
             N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
      1-24-  Annexing property located at the northeast corner of Weber Road and 151st
16-01 2001   Street, extending to south of Taylor Road, consisting of approximately 227
             acres.
      1-24-  Annexing approximately 67 acres of the east half of the southeast quarter of
17-01 2001   Sec. 5, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian, except the north
             490 feet of the east half of said south east quarter.
      1-24-  Annexing property located on the south side of Taylor Road, consisting of
20-01 2001   approximately 120 acres, and designated as PIN 04-08-200-005, 04-08-200-006,
             04-08-200-007 and 04-09-100-001.
      2-21-  (A) Annexing approximately 80 acres of the east half of the northwest
38-01 2001   fractional quarter (except the north 40 acres) of Sec. 5, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E
             of the Third Principal Meridian.
             (B) Annexing approximately 65 acres of the east half of the southwest quarter
           of Sec. 5 (except the north 490 feet), Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third
             Principal Meridian.
             Annexation agreement between the village and Cardinal Development Corporation
42-01 3-7-   for property located in the west half of the southeast quarter of Sec. 4, Twp.
      2001   36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian, consisting of approximately
             64 acres.
      3-7-   Approving the annexation of property located in the east half of the southwest
43-01 2001   quarter of Sec. 4, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian,
             consisting of approximately 64 acres.
      3-14-  (A) Annexation agreement between the village and Lakewood Falls Phase 7, LLC;
44-01 2001   Gerald and Richard Boucher; and Joan and John Fiddyment and Helen Levy for real
             estate consisting of approximately 500 acres in Will County.
           (B) Amendment to an annexation agreement between the village and Hartong Farms
             Enterprises, Inc., dated 10-15-1997.
45-01 3-14-  Annexing property located at the northwest corner of Renwick Road and Weber
      2001   Road, consisting of approximately 392 acres.
48-01 3-14-  Annexation agreement with Community Home Builders to develop real estate
      2001   consisting of approximately 43 acres.
49-01 3-14-  Annexation of property located at south side of Taylor Road and west of Weber
      2001   Road.
      6-20-  Annexing approximately 63 acres of the west half of the southwest quarter and
75-01 2001   the west 5 acres of the east half of said southwest quarter of Sec. 4, Twp. 36
             N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
      8-15-  Amendment to an annexation agreement between the village and Lakewood Falls
86-01 2001   Phase 7, LLC; Gerald and Richard Boucher; Joan and John Fiddyment; and Helen
             Levy dated March 14, 2001.
      8-15-  Amendment to an annexation agreement between the village and Robert Wagner for
87-01 2001   the property located at the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Sec.
             8, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
88-01 8-15-  Annexing approximately 38 acres designated as PIN 04-08-300-005.
      2001
             (A) Amendment to an annexation agreement between the village and Bigelow Homes,
85-01 9-5-   Inc., for the property located at the southeast quarter (except the east 74
      2001   acres thereof) of Sec. 7, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal
             Meridian.
             (B) Amendment to an annexation agreement between the village and Bigelow Homes,
           Inc., for a portion of the east half of the northeast quarter of Sec. 7, Twp.
             36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
91-01 9-5-   Annexation agreement between the village; Pizzuti Management, LLC; and Anthony
      2001   and Kenneth Bromberek for real estate, consisting of approximately 68 acres.
             Annexation agreement between the village and Isenstein/Pasquinelli, LLC for
0019- 4-3-   property located in the east half of the northwest quarter of Sec. 13, Twp. 36
02    2002   N, Range 9 E of the Third Principal Meridian, consisting of approximately 75
             acres.
0020- 4-3-   Annexing property located at the east and west half of Sec. 13, Twp. 36 N,
02    2002   Range 9 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
0028- 5-15-  Amendment to the annexation agreement between the village; Pinnacle Land
02    2002   Company, LLC; and Pizzuti Management, LLC dated May 21, 2001.
0029- 5-15-  Annexing property located at the west half of the southwest quarter of Sec. 4,
02    2002   Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
0044- 6-19-  Second amendment to annexation agreement between the village and Lakewood Falls
02    2002   Phase 7, LLC dated 3-14-2001.
0057- 8-21-  Annexation agreement (Dollinger/Sharp) for property located at the west half of
02    2002   the northwest quarter of Sec. 13, Twp. 36 N, Range 9 E of the Third Principal
             Meridian.
0058- 8-21-  Annexation agreement with Dollinger/Sharp for property located at the west half
02    2002   of the northwest quarter of Sec. 13, Twp. 36 N, Range 9 E of the Third
             Principal Meridian.
0062- 9-5-   Annexing property located at the west half of the northwest quarter of Sec. 13,
02    2002   Twp. 36 N, Range 9 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
0077- 10-29- Annexing property located at 14631 S. Budler Road, Plainfield Township.
02    2002
0083- 11-6-  Amendment to the annexation agreement between the village, First Midwest Bank
02    2002   as Trustee and Walter Vinckus dated 4-1-1998.
0084- 11-20- Amendment to the annexation agreement between the village, Midwest Bank and
02    2002   Lakewood Estates Partners dated 3-25-1991.
0012- 2-19-  Annexation agreement between the village, Ryan Companies US, Inc., Orman Boldt
03    2003   and William Edwards for the properties located:
             (A) In the west 40 acres of the southeast quarter and the east half of the
           southwest quarter of Sec. 29, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal
             Meridian; and
           (B) In the southeast quarter of Sec. 29, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E of the Third
             Principal Meridian.
0013- 3-19-  (A) Annexing property located at the west 40 acres of the southeast quarter and
03    2003   the east half of the southwest quarter of Sec. 29, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E of the
             Third Principal Meridian.
           (B) Annexing property located at the southeast quarter of Sec. 29, Twp. 37 N,
             Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
03-   12-17- Amendment to the annexation agreement between the village and Firstar Naper
0097  2003   Bank Trust.
03-   2-4-   Annexing property located on the north side of Taylor Road, 1 mile west of
0082  2004   Weber Road, across from Marquette’s Crossing West.
04-   2-4-   Annexing property located on the north side of Taylor Road, one mile west of
0112  2004   Weber Road, across from Marquette’s Crossing West.
04-   7-21-  Approving the annexing of property located on the east half of the northeast
0160  2004   quarter of Sec. 33, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
04-   7-21-  Executing the annexing of property located on the east half of the northeast
0166  2004   quarter of Sec. 33, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
04-   8-18-  Annexing of property located on the north side of Airport Road approximately
0175  2004   three-fourths mile east of Weber Road and approximately one and one-half miles
             west of Independence Boulevard in Lockport Township.
             Annexing of property located on the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter
04-   8-18-  of Sec. 8, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principle Meridian, and also the
0177  2004   east half of the southeast quarter of Sec. 8, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the
             Third Principle Meridian.
             Annexing of property located on the west half of the southwest quarter of Sec.
04-   8-18-  9, excepting therefrom the east 8.46 chains of the south 11.82 1/8 chains of
0178  2004   the west half of the southwest quarter of Sec. 9, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E of the
             Third Principle Meridian.
04-   8-18-  Annexing of property located approximately three-fourths mile east of Weber
0179  2004   Road and approximately one and one-half miles west of Independence Boulevard in
             Lockport Township.
04-   11-17- Approving the annexation of territory at 301 W. Normantown Road (Bible Baptist
0217  2004   Church Parcel).
             Annexation agreement for property located on the south 164.30 feet of the north
04-   12-15- 657.02 feet of the west half of the southwest quarter of Sec. 17, Twp. 36 N,
0210  2004   Range 10 E of the Third Principle Meridian, excepting the land conveyed to the
             county recorded as document no. R79-37719.
04-   12-15- Annexing certain territory to the village, S-Cubed Storage 03-65B.
0211  2004
04-   12-15- Classifying newly annexed territory, S-Cubed Storage 03-65E as and in within
0212  2004   the B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping zoning classification.
05-   7-6-   Annexation agreement for approximately 70 acres located on the west one-half of
0292  2005   the southwest quarter of Sec. 9.
05-   7-6-   Annexing the Gully Property to the village.
0293  2005
05-   8-3-   Amendment to the annexation agreement with Carlson Bros./South Creek
0297  2005   Enterprises, LLC for property along Airport Road.
05-   8-3-   Annexing the east half of the southeast quarter of Sec. 8, Twp. 36 N, Range 10
0299  2005   E of the Third Principal Meridian.
05-   9-21-  Annexing property, consisting of 80.74 acres, located on the east side of South
0315  2005   Creek Parkway approximately one-half mile north of Airport Road and one-quarter
             mile south of Taylor Road in Lockport Township.
05-   10-5-  Annexing property, consisting of 22.008 acres, known as the Margaret Kozak
0323  2005   Farm.
05-   10-5-  Annexing property, consisting of 33.148 acres, known as the Material Service
0325  2005   Property.
05-   10-5-  Annexing property, consisting of 2.41 acres, known as the Fitzpatrick House and
0327  2005   located at 15701 S. Independence Boulevard.
05-   10-5-  Annexing property, consisting of 27.624 acres, known as the Andy Kozak Farm.
0329  2005
05-   12-21- Annexing property, consisting of 14 acres, located at the northwest corner of
0344  2005   Budler Road and Airport Road.
05-   12-21- Approving the execution of an annexation agreement for Budler Retail Center.
0346  2005
05-   5-3-   Annexing 77.88 acres located on the north side of Renwick Road, approximately
0317  2006   one mile east of Weber Road and one and one-fourth miles west of Independence
             Boulevard.
05-   5-3-   Annexing 75.66 acres located on the south side of Airport Road, approximately
0319  2006   one-half mile east of Weber Road.
06-   5-3-   Annexing approximately 65 acres.
0405  2006
06-   5-3-   Annexing territory described as the west half of the southeast quarter of Sec.
0412  2006   26, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E of the Third Principal Meridian.
06-   9-20-  Annexing approximately 30 acres described as Lots 2, 3 and 4 in T.H. Abbott’s
0441  2006   Subdivision.
06-   9-20-  Annexing property, consisting of 59± acres, known as the Lambert/Homerding
0442  2006   property.
06-   9-20-  Annexing property located one-third mile north of Romeo Road, northwest of the
0448  2006   Romeoville Recreation Center and east of the detention ponds at Marquette’s
             Estates.
06-   1-17-  Annexing property located north of Taylor Road, east of the ComEd right-of-way,
0505  2007   south of the ComEd right-of-way and west of the Lakewood Falls Subdivision.
07-   5-16-  Annexation of territory located at the northeast corner of Romeo Road and
0537  2007   Independence Boulevard.
07-   6-20-  Annexation agreement for approximately two and one-half acres, located in
0547  2007   unincorporated Will County.
07-   9-5-   Annexation of property located at 20345 W. Normantown Road, consisting of 2.6
0569  2007   acres.
07-   9-5-   Annexation of property located at the northeast corner of Romeo Road and
0579  2007   Independence Boulevard, consisting of four lots totaling two and one-half
             acres.
07-   9-19-  Annexation of property located on the south side of Taylor Road, one-half mile
0585  2007   west of IL 53, consisting of two lots totaling 78.18 acres.
07-   9-19-  Annexation agreement for property consisting of approximately 78.17 acres,
0589  2007   located in unincorporated Will County.
08-   12-3-  Annexation agreement for property consisting of approximately 41.28 acres,
0672  2008   located in unincorporated Will County.
08-   1-7-   Annexation of property consisting of five lots and adjacent right-of-way
0673  2009   totaling 45.67 acres.
10-   3-3-   Annexation of property known as Renwick Road Parcel or Lewis Parcel Six located
0822  2010   at the northeast corner of Renwick Road and Wilco Boulevard in Lockport
             Township.
10-   3-3-   Annexation of property known as the Kozak Farmstead Parcel of Lewis Parcels
0824  2010   Seven and Eight located on the north side of Renwick Road in Lockport Township.
10-   3-3-   Annexation of the property known as the Joseph Kozak House or Lewis Parcels
0826  2010   Nine located on the north side of Renwick Road in Lockport Township.
10-   3-3-   Annexation of a part of Lewis Main Campus consisting of 24+ acres.
0828  2010
10-   3-3-   Annexation of Com Ed Property, south of Romeo Road, consisting of 5.94 acres.
0829  2010
10-   3-3-   Annexation of Crossroads Property, consisting of 0.49 acres.
0830  2010
10-   3-3-   Annexation of Mink Creek Property, consisting of 0.24 acres.
0831  2010
10-   3-3-   Annexation of O’Hara Woods Property, consisting of 3.49 acres.
0832  2010
10-   3-3-   Annexation of Weber 55 Property, consisting of 1.7795 acres.
0833  2010
11-   9-7-   Annexation of Mistwood Golf Course, consisting of 2.8 acres.
0919  2011
12-   7-11-  Annexation of three tracts totaling 236.7 acres in the Forest Preserve
0996  2012   District.
12-   7-11-  Annexation agreement for Forest Preserve District property.
1001  2012
14-   5-21-  Sixth amendment to an annexation agreement dated April 5, 1999.
1119  2014
14-   8-20-  Approving annexation of 11 E. Romeo Road, Vinkus Property.
1130  2014
14-   8-20-  Amendment to an annexation agreement recorded on March 19, 2008.
1133  2014
15-   5-6-   Annexation of property at 20340 Airport Road (Filotto) and 20352 Airport Road
1173  2015   (Edgar).
15-   5-6-   Amendment to an annexation agreement dated April 2, 2014.
1186  2015
14-   7-1-   Approving annexation of 160 N. Independence Boulevard.
1138  2015
15-   7-1-   Approving annexation of 1881 W. Normantown Road.
1191  2015
15-   7-1-   Annexation agreement with Normantown ECS, LLC for the Elmhurst Chicago Stone
1195  2015   property.
15-   7-1-   Annexation agreement with VNA Health Care for the Kotnour Route 53 property.
1197  2015
15-   11-4-  Approving annexation of properties along the Des Plaines River and 135th
1225  2015   Street.
15-   11-4-  Amendment to an annexation agreement dated July 12, 2012.
1228  2015
15-   12-2-  Annexation agreement with Airport Road Holdings, LLC, Keith Schacht, Kathy
1239  2015   Schacht and REM Acquisitions, LLC.
15-   12-23- Annexation agreement with Ottawa Farm & Fleet, Inc. for the property at the SE
1254  2015   corner of Airport Road and Weber Road.
15-   1-6-   Annexation agreement with Ottawa Farm & Fleet, Inc. for property at the
1250  2016   southeast corner of Airport Road and Weber Road.
15-   1-20-  Annexation agreement with Airport Road Holdings, LLC for properties at 20413
1235  2016   and 20401 W. Airport Road.
16-   5-18-  Authorizing the execution of a first amendment to an existing annexation
1285  2016   agreement.
16-   7-6-   Approving annexation of property at the south side of Joliet Road and
1292  2016   Independence Blvd.
16-   7-6-   Authorizing annexation agreement with Abbott Land Gateway, LLC for property
1300  2016   located in unincorporated Will County.
17-   2-1-   Authorizing annexation agreement and development agreement with Series N of IBT
1350  2017   Holdings, LLC for property located in unincorporated Will County.
17-   3-1-   Authorizing annexation and development agreement with Series N of IBT Holdings,
1354  2017   LLC for property located in unincorporated Will County.
16-   5-3-   Approving the annexation of territory located at 20545 Normantown Road.
1326  2017
17-   8-16-  Approving the annexation of territory located at 335 Independence, Parcel II.
1393  2017
17-   11-1-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline
1415  2017   Company of America, LLC.
17-   12-6-  Approving the annexation of territory running north and south from Renwick Road
1359  2017   to Normantown Road, consisting of 29.8 acres.
17-   12-6-  Approving the annexation of three tracts of land along the north side of
1427  2017   Renwick Road, Airport Logistics Center.
17-   12-6-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with Duke Realty Limited
1441  2017   Partnership.
17-   12-6-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with CT MIC Bluff Road
1442  2017   Venture, LLC.
17-   12-20- Approving the annexation of territory along the south side of Bluff Road,
1424  2017   formerly known as the Jurca Farm.
18-   1-17-  Approving the annexation of 19808 W. Airport Road, containing 60 acres or less.
1446  2018
18-   1-17-  Approving the annexation of Airport Parcel 2, containing 60 acres or less.
1447  2018
18-   1-17-  Approving the annexation of 21440 W. Renwick Road, containing 60 acres or less.
1448  2018
18-   1-17-  Approving the annexation of 20746 W. Renwick Road, containing 60 acres or less.
1449  2018
18-   1-17-  Approving the annexation of 19206 and 19220 W. Renwick Road, containing 60
1450  2018   acres or less.
19-   5-1-   Approving the annexation of the U-Haul property at 681 S. Weber Road,
1559  2019   containing 3.3 acres.
19-   5-1-   Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with AMERCO.
1567  2019
19-   6-5-   Approving the annexation of the Swing Bridge Parcel, containing approximately
1573  2019   six acres and zoning E-R.
20-   2-19-  Approving the annexation of the Lafarge Parcel, consisting of 17.24 acres and
1625  2020   zoning E-R.
20-   6-17-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with FRED-Romeoville HC,
1646  2020   LLC.
20-   8-19-  Approving the annexation of a tract of land on the east side of Weber Road,
1641  2020   formerly known as the Walsh parcel.
21-   2-3-   Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an annexation agreement with Duke
1686  2021   Realty Limited Partnership.
21-   2-3-   Authorizing the execution of an annexation and development agreement with Duke
1687  2021   Realty Renwick Road, LLC for Jenkins, Kozak, Renwick Road parcels.
21-   2-17-  Approving annexation of territory with Duke Realty Limited Partnership (Airport
1681  2021   Logistics Center Phase II).
21-   8-4-   Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with DND Endeavors, LLC.
1719  2021
21-   10-6-  Authorizing the annexation of territory with Suncera Motor Cars, Inc. (Mercedes
1714  2021   Benz of Romeoville).
22-   2-2-   Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an annexation agreement with Gully
1757  2022   Investments Holding Company, LLC and Bridge Industrial Acquisition, LLC.
22-   4-6-   Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with Molto Properties, LLC
1772  2022   (Weber 55 Logistics Park).
22-   6-1-   Approving the annexation of territory by Molto Properties, LLC (Weber 55
1768  2022   Logistics Park).
23-   2-1-   Authorizing the execution of the second amendment to the annexation agreement
1820  2023   dated 8-18-2004 by and between the village and South Creek Enterprises, LLC.
23-   4-19-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement (Investors Lands Holding
1847  2023   of Romeoville, LLC - Hampton Manor Senior Housing Development).
23-   6-7-   Approving the annexation of territory by Romeoville Investors Land Holding
1841  2023   (Hampton Manor).
23-   10-18- Authorizing the execution of a second amendment to an annexation agreement
1868  2023   (Duke Realty Limited Partnership).
24-   6-26-  Authorizing the execution of an annexation and development agreement for Edward
1922  2024   Rose Properties, Inc.
24-   9-4-   Approving the annexation of territory for Edward Rose Properties, Inc. (Monarch
1915  2024   Grove).
24-   12-18- Authorizing the third amendment to annexation agreement dated 8-18-2004 by and
1957  2024   between the village, an Illinois Municipal Corporation and South Creek
             Enterprises, LLC.
25-   9-3-   Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an annexation agreement (Natural
2004  2025   Gas Pipeline Company of America, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
             corporation).
25-   12-3-  Annexing certain territory (Ward Farmhouse Site).
2027  2025
            
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./   Date
Res.    Passed Description
No.
2298    - -    Contract to supply amusements with All Around Amusement, Inc.
76      7-2-   Agreement with the town of Lockport concerning jurisdiction over bridges across
        1906   the Des Plaines River.
203     5-11-  Franchise with Commonwealth Edison Company to construct, operate and maintain
        1960   an electric light and power system.
226     2-26-  Franchise with Alexander Utilities Corporation to construct, operate and
        1965   maintain a water and sewer public utility.
306     2-17-  Agreement to acquire and operate a Joint Waterworks System with Lockport,
        1971   Joliet, Rockdale, Mokena, New Lenox and Frankfort.
355     1-17-  Cable television franchise agreement with Village Communications, Inc., to
        1973   construct, operate and maintain a CATV system.
Res. -  4-4-   Agreement to have Illinois Municipal League act as clearing house to collect
        1974   Fire Department tax.
406     5-15-  Amendment to CATV franchise agreement.
        1974
Res. -  5-15-  Approving grant agreement for public roadway with Commonwealth Edison Company.
        1974
Res. -  11-20- Mutual aid agreement for fire assistance with City of Naperville.
        1974
Res. -  1-2-   Planning agreement between the village and the county.
        1975
453     3-5-   Amendment to CATV franchise agreement.
        1975
Res. -  3-19-  Agreement with Honeytree Town Home Improvement Association for the enforcement
        1975   of traffic regulations.
Res. -  10-1-  Agreement to enforce traffic regulations at the 7-11 Store on Dalhart Avenue.
        1975
Res. -  10-1-  Agreement to enforce traffic regulations at the 7-11 Store on Romeo Road.
        1975
Res. -  12-17- Planning agreement between the village and the county.
        1975
Res. -  3-3-   Agreement to enter joint governmental purchasing program with the state.
        1976
Res. -  1-19-  Planning agreement between the village and the county.
        1977
689     3-16-  Contract with Western Disposal, Inc. for refuse collection.
        1977
593     11-30- Franchise with Illinois Bell Telephone for general telephone operations.
        1977
668     1-17-  Intergovernmental agreement for continuation of Special Recreation Association.
        1979
Res.    5-16-  Agreement to enter joint governmental purchasing program with the state.
43-79   1979
691     7-18-  Amending contract with Western Disposal, Inc. for refuse collection.
        1979
Res.    10-17- Intergovernmental agreement for investigation of narcotics violations.
61-79   1979
Res.    11-7-  Agreement with LaGrange State Bank U/T/A #4300 for the enforcement of traffic
63-79   1979   regulations within the Romeo Shopping Plaza.
Res.    12-5-  Mutual aid agreement with Lisle-Woodridge fire district.
70-79   1979
716     2-6-   Approving articles for agreement for Special Recreation Association.
        1980
717     2-20-  Contract with Western Disposal, Inc. for refuse collection.
        1980
718     2-20-  Amending contract with Western Disposal, Inc. for refuse collection.
        1980
Res.    4-2-   Agreement to enforce traffic regulations on Valley View Community Unit School
79-80   1980   District property.
Res.    5-7-   Mutual aid agreement with City of Naperville for mutual aid and sharing of
86-80   1980   emergency medical services.
Res.    11-19- Agreement and statement of understanding with American Red Cross as to mutual
105-80  1980   responsibilities in time of disaster.
773     2-18-  Mutual aid agreement with the Lockport Township Fire and Ambulance Protection
        1981   District for emergency medical assistance.
781     4-15-  Agreement between the village and Romeoville Towing for towing of motor
        1981   vehicles.
787     6-17-  Mutual aid agreement with the Lermont Township Fire Protection District for
        1981   paramedic services.
788     7-1-   Mutual aid agreement with the Bolingbrook Fire Department for paramedic
        1981   services.
812     1-6-   Contract with Western Disposal Inc. for refuse collection.
        1982
820     4-7-   Agreement with Valley View Community Unit School District no. 365U relating to
        1982   the proration of cost of construction of water main.
Res.    5-5-   Contract with Fritz, Griffin and Company for audit service.
188-82  1982
Res.    10-6-  Agreement with James B. Clarage and Associates for architectural services for
210-82  1982   fire station addition.
835     10-20- Amending contract with Joyce Cable, Inc. for cable television services.
        1982
Res.    12-8-  Agreement with Robinson Engineering Company, Ltd., for engineering services.
218-82  1982
Res.    1-5-   Agreement with Robinson Engineering Company, Ltd. for engineering services.
230-83  1983
Res.    2-2-   Intergovernmental agreement for the establishment of a regional training
236-83  1983   program.
Res.    3-16-  Cooperation agreement with DuPage Township for a secondary application covering
246-83  1983   housing rehabilitation under the Block Grant program.
Res.    6-1-   Agreement with the Town of DuPage for revenue sharing.
264-83  1983
Res.    9-21-  Adopting IMCA deferred compensation plan, retirement trust and trust agreement.
281-83  1983
Res.    11-2-  Agreement with International Graphic Services, Inc. for installation of three
285-83  1983   bus shelters.
Res.    2-15-  Agreement with Automatic Data Processing, Inc. for payroll processing service.
305-84  1984
Res.    10-3-  Agreement with Philip G. Prassas, managing agent for Hampton Park Terrace
357-84  1984   Shopping Center for enforcement of traffic regulations.
901     1-2-   Amendment to agreement with Illinois Bell Telephone Company.
        1985
917     6-5-   Authorization to American Cablesystems Midwest to construct, operate and
        1985   maintain a cable television system in the village.
Res.    10-2-  Agreement with American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
422-85  1985   Local 1034 public works bargaining unit.
Res.    11-20- Agreement with American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
426-85  1985   Local 1034 clerical bargaining unit.
Res.    1-15-
435-1-  1986   Agreement with Combined Counties Police Association.
86
Res.    4-2-   Three-year Paratransit Grant Agreement with the Suburban Bus Division of the
447-86  1986   Regional Transportation Authority.
Res.    9-3-   Agreement with American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
469-86  1986   AFL-CIO Council 31.
Res.    3-4-   Mutual aid agreement for the Village Fire Department.
498-87  1987
1074-88 12-14- Adopting the Des Plains River Valley Enterprise Zone Intergovernmental
        1988   Agreement, as amended.
1075-88 12-14- Amendment of § 2 of Ord. 1074-88, listed above.
        1988
1078-88 12-14- Authorizing a credit, refund or exemption of local sales tax paid under the
        1988   Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act in Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone.
1086-89 3-1-   Amendment of § 2 of Ord. 1074-88, listed above.
        1989
1087-89 3-1-   Amendments of “Exhibit A” of Ord. 1074-88, listed above.
        1989
Res.    8-16-  An agreement between the village and the Land and Lakes Company to provide
644-89  1989   residential curbside recycling services.
Res.    9-8-   Agreement for the Mutual Aid Box Alarm System.
639-89  1989
        9-27-  Authorizing a re-development agreement between the village and Westbank/
2028-89 1989   Naperville trustee under trust number 88-076, Timothy Andersen and Jill
               Stanton.
        9-29-  Authorizing a re-development agreement between the village and Westbank/
2029-89 1989   Naperville trustee under trust number 88-063 and 88-064, Brian Andersen and
               Patrick Stanton.
Res.    10-18- Agreement to enforce traffic regulations at Gonzo’s.
650-89  1989
Res.    10-18- Agreement to enforce traffic regulations in the parking area of the United
651-89  1989   Presbyterian Church.
Res.    11-1-  Authorizing an agreement between Brian Andersen and Patrick Stanton and the
655-89  1989   village for the purchase of a lot in Marquette Industrial Park for future fire
               station site.
Res.    11-15- Agreement between the village and the Santa Fe Pacific Realty Corporation
659-89  1989   regarding the relocation of a water line easement.
Res.    12-6-  Agreement to enforce traffic regulation at Serenity Chapels Funeral Home.
661-89  1989
Res.    2-21-  Agreement between the village and Commonwealth Edison.
674-90  1990
Res.    5-16-  Agreement between the village and the Combined Counties Police Association
691-90  1990   (Romeoville Chapter).
Res.    8-1-   Agreement between the village and the Natural Gas Pipeline Co. of America.
702-90  1990
Res.    8-15-  Agreement enforcing traffic regulations at Fountaindale Public Library
703-90  1990   District.
Res.    9-5-   Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement for a metropolitan area narcotics
704-90  1990   squad.
Res.    10-3-  Authorizing a mutual aid agreement with the Des Plaines Valley Fire Chief’s
710-90  1990   Association.
2077-91 1-23-  Amending and extending a 1977 agreement by and between the village and Lewis
        1991   University.
2078-91 1-23-  Authorizing a preannexation agreement by and between the village and Lewis
        1991   University.
Res.    2-20-  Authorizing a contract on behalf of the village to purchase 207 acres of land
737-91  1991   at a price of $13,250 per acre.
Res.    2-20-  Authorizing a contract on behalf of the village providing for engineering
741-91  1991   services with Robinson Engineering, Ltd.
Res.    3-20-  Agreement to enforce traffic regulations on Lewis University property.
744-91  1991
Res.    4-17-  Authorizing an agreement for financial planning services.
745-91  1991
Res.    5-15-  Authorizing an agreement with Northern Illinois Gas Company for bi-monthly
758-91  1991   water meter reading.
2113-91 7-10-  Amending Ord. 1074-88 as amended by Ord. 1077-88 adopting the Des Plaines River
        1991   Valley Enterprise Zone Intergovernmental Agreement.
Res.    9-5-   Village of Bolingbrook E-9-1-1 agreement.
768-91  1991
Res.    11-20- Authorizing contract with Linden Oaks Hospital (Employee Assistance Program).
796-91  1991
2146-92 1-8-   Agreement for use of the public way.
        1992
Res.    4-24-  Authorizing the Village President and Village Clerk to enter into a
820-92  1992   modification agreement with AMLI Realty Company.
Res.    5-20-  Authorizing first amendment to TIF Redevelopment Agreement dated 5-2-1990
825-92  1992   between the village and Anton Group, Ltd. and Westbank/Naperville TUT 88-076.
Res.    8-5-   Authorizing consent to assignment of utilities agreements and assumption
841-92  1992   agreements by and between Cenvill Illinois Corporation and Zedd Investments,
               Inc.
Res.    8-5-   Contracting services with William Lindley of Lindley and Sons, Inc., 9200
842-92  1992   Kingery Road, Hinsdale, Ill. 60521.
2183-92 8-19-  Approving the recapture due to oversizing of public utilities in the area of
        1992   the Joliet Junior College.
2191-92 10-7-  Authorizing service agreement between the village and Romeoville Public
        1992   Television.
Res.    10-21- Authorizing an agreement between the village and the Combined Counties Police
868-92  1992   Association (Romeoville Chapter).
Res.    10-21- Authorizing an agreement between the village and The American Federation of
869-92  1992   State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO Council 31.
2196-92 12-2-  Approving first amendment to inter-governmental cooperative agreement between
        1992   the village and the Village of Bolingbrook.
Res.    1-6-   Authorizing employment agreement with the village and Police Chief.
878-93  1993
Res.    2-17-  Approving supplemental agreement for consultant services for proposed
885-93  1993   improvement of 135th Street bridge.
2205-93 3-3-   Authorizing and directing the execution of a certain sewer and water service
        1993   agreement between the village and Lewis University.
Res.    6-2-   Approving the automatic first response agreement with the Village of
925-93  1993   Bolingbrook.
2226-93 6-16-  Amendment #1 to Ord. 2191-92 service agreement between the village and
        1993   Romeoville Public Television (RPTV).
Res.    7-7-   Approving the agreement with the Greater Will County Mutual Aid Association.
927-93  1993
Res.    10-6-  Approving the agreement for engineering services for Romeoville Gardens Water
950-93  1993   Main, sanitary sewer and storm sewer installation.
Res.    10-20- Authorizing Village President and Village Clerk to enter into an agreement with
956-93  1993   Stat Electronic Billing Service for the collection of third-party ambulance
               bills.
Res.    11-17- Authorizing enforcement of traffic regulations at the Beacon Building.
964-93  1993
Res.    12-21- Approving an intergovernmental agreement between the village and the Village of
975-93  1993   Bolingbrook - antenna.
Res.    1-5-   Creating the Interstate 355 Southern Extension (FAP 340) Corridor Planning
978-94  1994   Council.
Res.    1-19-  Authorizing agreement with the Department of Recreation and the Pony Baseball
982-94  1994   Organization providing for the construction, operation and maintenance of a
               batting cage and storage facility on village property.
Res.    7-6-   Intergovernmental agreement creating the Interstate 355 Southern Extension
1045-94 1994   Corridor Planning Council.
Res.    8-3-   Second supplemental engineering agreement for the proposed improvement of 135th
1053-94 1994   Street bridge.
               Entering into an intergovernmental agreement with the Valley View School
Res.    9-7-   District no. 365U for the purpose of providing for the assignment of a police
1064-94 1994   officer to the school district as a police-school liaison officer and the
               sharing of the cost of this service.
Res.    10-12- Authorizing an agreement between the village and the Combined Counties Police
1077-94 1994   Association (Romeoville Chapter).
Res.    10-19- Authorizing an agreement between the village and the American Federation of
1076-94 1994   State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO Council 31.
Res.    11-2-  Approving the contract for specific and aggregate insurance for employee health
1082-94 1994   insurance for the village.
Res.    11-2-  Approving the contract for specific and aggregate insurance for employee life
1083-94 1994   insurance for the village.
2296-94 11-2-  Authorizing service agreement between the village and Romeoville Public
        1994   Television (R.P.T.V.).
Res.    11-16- Extending the contract for financial advisory services approved by Res. 951-93
1087-94 1994   for the village for period of two years.
Res.    11-29- Approving refuse hauling agreement between the village and Banner/Western
1090-94 1994   Disposal Company.
Res.    1-18-  Amending Res. 982-94 construction of building and batting cage facility at the
1102-95 1995   Romeoville Recreation Department.
Res.    2-1-   Authorizing an agreement between the village and Knight Security Alarms, Inc.
1105-95 1995
Res.    2-1-   Approving addendum to Coca-Cola contract.
1108-95 1995
2317-95 2-15-  Authorizing entering into an agreement for the purchase of an ambulance for the
        1995   village.
Res.    3-1-   Approving annual Cathodic Protection System contracts at the following
1119-95 1995   locations: Normantown Tank, Marquette Standpipe, Marquette Elevated Tank and
               Fairfax Elevated Tank.
Res.    4-5-   Approving metering agreement with Lakewood Falls Community Association, Inc. to
1127-95 1995   facilitate the use of electronic water meters.
Res.    4-5-   Approving metering agreement with Lakewood Homes to facilitate the use of
1128-95 1995   electronic water meters.
Res.    4-5-   Approving metering agreement with Codycomm to facilitate the use of electronic
1129-95 1995   water meters.
Res.    4-5-   Amendment to agreement between village and Combined Counties Police Association
1135-95 1995   (Romeoville Chapter) dated 10-27-1994.
Res.    4-19-  Approving agreements between the village and State Department of Conservation.
1136-95 1995
Res.    4-19-  Approving agreements between the village and J.D. Munch Vending Company.
1142-95 1995
Res.    4-19-  Approving an agreement between the village and Township of Dupage.
1144-95 1995
Res.    4-19-  Approving the statement of understanding between the village and the Mid-
1145-95 1995   America Chapter of the American Red Cross.
2331-95 5-3-   Authorizing a service agreement between the village and Romeoville Public
        1995   Television.
Res.    5-17-  Approving the contract for third-party claims administrator for employee health
1162-95 1995   insurance for the village.
Res.    6-7-   Approving agreement between the village and Knight Security Alarms, Inc.
1164-95 1995
Res.    7-5-   Authorizing an extension of the Wheelabrator Clean Water Systems/Bio Gro
1170-95 1995   contract.
Res.    7-5-   Approving agreement between the village and Radio Communications Corporation.
1173-95 1995
Res.    7-19-  Agreement for engineering services for hydrologic review for material service
1176-95 1995   property.
Res.    7-19-  Approving the contract for dental insurance coverage with Delta Dental of
1178-95 1995   Illinois.
Res.    8-2-   Approving the contract for public official liability insurance for the village.
1180-95 1995
Res.    8-2-   Approving agreement between the Fire Department and Wizard of Wheels Yamaha/
1182-95 1995   Kawasaki.
Res.    8-16-  Authorizing the village to enter into a contract with Layne-Western Company.
1192-95 1995
Res.    9-6-   Approving agreement between the village and the county.
1198-95 1995
Res.    9-6-   Approving the contract with Data Transmission Network.
2000-95 1995
2381-95 9-20-  Amending Article II of the contract and bylaws of the Southwest Agency for Risk
        1995   Management.
Res.    10-18- Approving agreement with Lumina, Inc. for fireworks display.
2016-95 1995
Res.    10-18- Authorizing and supporting a contract between the Police Department and the IBM
2017-95 1995   Corporation for a software service contract.
Res.    11-1-  Approving the contract for specific and aggregate insurance for employee health
2021-95 1995   insurance for the village.
Res.    11-1-  Approving an agreement between the village and Music Mania Mobile Sound
2022-95 1995   Entertainment, Inc. for employee Christmas party.
Res.    11-1-  Approving an agreement between the village and Minolta Business Systems for
2023-95 1995   service maintenance.
Res.    12-6-  Approving agreement between the village and Midwest Promotional Services, Inc.
2034-95 1995   for music and DJ service.
Res.    1-17-  Approving the contract between the village and Commonwealth Edison for electric
2048-96 1996   service.
Res.    1-17-  Approving contract for audit services with McGladrey & Pullen.
2049-96 1996
Res.    3-6-   Approving agreement between the village and Miller Amusements, Inc.
2072-96 1996
        3-13-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement to provide for the recapture of
2409-96 1996   payment for oversizing sewer and water mains and related facilities (Lakewood
               Falls).
Res.    4-17-  Approving the agreement with American Video Services for promotional services.
2082-96 1996
Res.    4-17-  Approving contract with Municipal Actuarial Services, Inc. to compile the
2083-96 1996   actuarial statement for the village police and fire fighters pension funds.
Res.    4-17-  Approving contract with D & L Tuckpointing & Chimney Repair for the
2086-96 1996   tuckpointing of the Village Hall Building.
2423-96 5-15-  Amendment to the Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone intergovernmental
        1996   agreement.
Res.    6-5-   Intergovernmental agreement between the county and village regarding 135th
2104-96 1996   Street between Illinois Route 53 and New Avenue.
Res.    6-19-  Agreement between Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago and the Village
2109-96 1996   Recreation Department.
Res.    7-3-   Authorizing the agreement with Industrial Appraisal.
2116-96 1996
Res.    7-17-  Authorizing the participation of the village to enter into an agreement with
2125-96 1996   Illinois Convenience and Safety Corporation.
2442-96 10-16- Authorizing the redevelopment agreement pertaining to Lots 1 through 5 of the
        1996   Oaks of Ridgewood Subdivision in the Marquette Redevelopment Project Area.
Res.    11-6-  Intergovernmental agreement between the county and village for Child Sexual
2156-96 1996   Notification Act.
Res.    11-20- Agreement between village and Robinson Engineering, Ltd., for engineering
2160-96 1996   services for the improvement of a traffic signal and channelization at the
               intersection of State Route 53 and Montrose Drive and appurtenant work.
Res.    12-18- Authorizing execution of memorandum of agreement concerning revenue bonds for
2165-96 1996   the Metropolitan Industries, Inc. project.
Res.    1-22-  Approving the facilities rental agreement with Lewis University.
2169-97 1997
Res.    1-22-  Approving the purchase of a Recreation Department 15-passenger van.
2170-97 1997
Res.    2-19-  Agreement between village and Robinson Engineering, Ltd., for engineering
2182-97 1997   services for a master water main and trunk sanitary sewer plan for the
               comprehensive planning areas of the village.
Res.    4-2-   Providing for the financing by the village of the Metropolitan Industries
2194-97 1997   project, land acquisition, construction and other activities.
Res.    5-21-  Agreement for the purchase of a 1997 Ford Club Wagon van.
2201-97 1997
2504-97 9-27-  Intergovernmental agreement between the village and the Lockport Township Fire
        1997   and Ambulance District.
2531-98 1-21-  Execution of a sewer and water line easement agreement with the Amoco Oil
        1998   Company.
Res.    3-18-  Agreement for RomeoFest entertainment and/or other RomeoFest related items.
2242-98 1998
Res.    4-15-  Authorizing execution of memorandum of concerning industrial development
2247-98 1998   revenue bonds for the acquisition and construction of a manufacturing facility
               in the village.
Res.    5-6-   Approving contract for audit services with McGladrey & Pullen, Certified Public
2251-98 1998   Accountants.
Res.    5-6-   Agreement between the village and Lumina, Inc.
2254-98 1998
Res.    5-7-   Agreement between Romeoville Little League and the Village Recreation
2253-98 1998   Department.
Res.    5-7-   Agreement between the village and K.C. Audio.
2255-98 1998
2559-98 6-3-   Authorizing the execution of a recapture agreement with Quantum Properties,
        1998   LLC.
2584-98 7-1-   Authorizing the execution of a recapture agreement with William E. Gahlberg &
        1998   Associates.
2585-98 7-1-   Authorizing the execution of a recapture agreement with William E. Gahlberg &
        1998   Associates.
2586-98 7-1-   Authorizing the execution of a recapture agreement with William E. Gahlberg &
        1998   Associates.
2587-98 7-1-   Authorizing the execution of a recapture agreement with William E. Gahlberg &
        1998   Associates.
2588-98 7-1-   Authorizing the execution of a recapture agreement with William E. Gahlberg &
        1998   Associates.
2589-98 7-1-   Authorizing the execution of a recapture agreement with William E. Gahlberg &
        1998   Associates.
2592-98 7-15-  Authorizing the execution of an Intergovernmental Agreement between the village
        1998   and the Lemont Fire Protection District.
2600-98 8-19-  Authorizing entering into an agreement for the lease purchase of a 1999 Pierce
        1998   Aerial fire truck.
2602-98 8-19-  Approving the execution of a license agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline
        1998   Company of America.
2604-98 10-7-  Intergovernmental automatic aid agreement for fire and EMS service between the
        1998   village and the Lockport Township Fire and Ambulance District.
Res.    11-20- Agreement between St. Andrews Parish School and the village.
2299-98 1998
2619-98 11-20- Agreement between the village and Valley View School District no. 365U.
        1998
Res.    12-2-  Successor collective bargaining agreements between the village and the American
2303-98 1998   Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31, AFL-CIO for
               the public works unit and the clerical unit.
Res.    12-16- Approving agreement between the village and the Natural Pipeline Company of
2305-98 1998   America.
2621-99 1-19-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement between the village and the Lockport
        1999   Fire and Ambulance District - Antenna.
2628-99 2-5-   Approving an intergovernmental cooperative planning and boundary agreement
        1999   between the City of Joliet and the village.
2629-99 2-5-   Amending Ord. 1074-88 as amended by Ord. 1077-88 and Ord. 2113-91 adopting the
        1999   Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone intergovernmental agreement.
2632-99 2-5-   Approving the execution of an agreement permitting the conduct of a live burn
        1999   training exercise.
        2-5-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement concerning the donation of the
2633-99 1999   Wesglen Elementary School site to the Valley View Public Schools Community Unit
               District no. 365-U.
2634-99 2-5-   Amending the Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone intergovernmental
        1999   agreement.
2631-99 2-8-   Authorizing the execution and delivery of an intergovernmental cooperation
        1999   agreement.
Res.    2-16-  Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement with Jack D. Pickett &
2312-99 1999   Associates.
Res.    2-16-  Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement with LandTech.
2313-99 1999
Res.    4-19-  Approving agreement between Romeoville Little League and the Village Recreation
2322-99 1999   Department.
2653-99 4-19-  Indemnification and release agreement between the village and Amli Will County
        1999   Properties Limited Partnership.
Res.    5-17-  Authorizing enforcement of traffic regulations at Highpoint Community.
2335-99 1999
Res.    5-17-  Authorizing enforcement of traffic regulations at Mid-Northern Equities
2336-99 1999   Management, Ltd.
2664-99 5-17-  Agreement with the First National Bank of Chicago to procure a business credit
        1999   card for the village.
Res.    6-7-   Approving agreement between the village and Lumina, Inc. for the purpose of
2341-99 1999   supplying fireworks.
Res.    6-21-  Amending Res. 2334-99 Intergovernmental Range Agreement with the City of
2344-99 1999   Darien.
Res.    6-28-  Intergovernmental Agreement with the State Department of Transportation.
2345-99 1999
2673-99 7-6-   Approving the Job Classification and Compensation plan as submitted by DMG
        1999   Maximus.
2675    7-19-  Intergovernmental cooperative agreement with the Village of Bolingbrook.
        1999
2676-99 7-19-  Confirming the payment schedule for certain payments to be made to the Village
        1999   of Bolingbrook pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement dated 7-26-1998.
Res.    8-18-  Authorizing the President and Clerk to execute an agreement with A-Beep for the
2358-99 1999   purchase of communication equipment for the Department of Public Works.
Res.    9-15-  Authorizing the President and Clerk to execute an agreement with Worden-Martin
2365-99 1999   GMC for the purchase of a vehicle for the Department of Public Works.
Res.    9-15-  Authorizing the President and Clerk to execute an agreement with Flexible
2366-99 1999   Pavement for the renovation of the main entrance at the recreation center.
Res.    10-6-  Authorizing the President and Board of Trustees and the Village Clerk to
2380-99 1999   execute an agreement with Hampton Park Liquor for the enforcement of traffic
               regulations within Hampton Park Liquor property.
Res.    10-6-  Authorizing an agreement between the village and Robinson Engineering, Ltd.
2383-99 1999   (135th Street - Project no. CMM-7003(743)).
2706-99 10-6-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement between the village and Wheatland
        1999   Township Road District.
               Directing the execution of an agreement with the State Department of
2707-99 10-6-  Transportation to transfer jurisdiction of Frontage Road running generally
        1999   parallel to and immediately to the south of Interstate 55 from Weber Road to
               Budler Road.
Res.    10-20- Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Northern Illinois Fence, Inc.
2392-00 1999   for the reconstruction of Ball Diamond #3 at Village Park.
Res.    11-3-  Authorizing an agreement between the village and Hitchcock Design Group for
2410-99 1999   Wesglen Park.
Res.    11-3-  Approving a sewer/water study pursuant to an agreement with the Village of
2411-99 1999   Bolingbrook.
2721-99 11-17- Municipal facilities use agreement between the village and Metricom, Inc. for
        1999   telecommunications facilities.
Res.    12-15- Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Carlson Brothers for the
2421-99 1999   construction of the Century Park Washroom/Picnic Shelter facility.
Res.    12-15- Authorizing the execution of an agreement with D. Shab Construction for the
2425-99 1999   renovation of the Concession Stand at Village Park.
2724-99 12-15- Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and the State
        1999   Department of Transportation for reconstruction of 135th Street.
2725-99 12-15- Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and the Orland
        1999   Central Emergency Communications Center.
Res.    1-5-   Authorizing an agreement with All Around Amusement, Inc. for a carnival from
2429-99 2000   August 9, 2000 to August 13, 2000.
2730-99 1-5-   Authorizing an amendment to an intergovernmental agreement between the village
        2000   and Valley View School Community Unit District no. 365U.
Res.    2-2-   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
2438-00 2000
Res.    2-2-   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
2439-00 2000
Res.    2-2-   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
2440-00 2000
2737-00 2-16-  Approving the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the village
        2000   and the Lockport Township Road District.
2738-00 2-16-  Directing the execution of a Local Agency State Agreement for Jurisdictional
        2000   Transfer with the State Department of Transportation.
2740-00 3-1-   Amending the intergovernmental agreement establishing the Des Plaines River
        2000   Valley Enterprise Zone.
Res.    3-15-  Authorizing an inter-governmental agreement with the Metropolitan Area
2460-00 2000   Narcotics Squad.
Res.    3-15-  Authorizing an agreement for RomeoFest entertainment and/or other related
2466-00 2000   items.
Res.    3-15-  Agreement between the Romeoville Fire Department and Security Link by Ameritech
2467-00 2000   for the purpose of monitoring the alarm board at Orland Fire Protection
               District.
2743-00 3-15-  Providing for the addition of Frontage Road south of Interstate 55 to Budler
        2000   Road/Wheatland Township Line to the municipal street system of the village.
2744-00 3-15-  Providing for the addition of Taylor Road from Weber Road to Illinois Route 53
        2000   to the municipal street system of the village.
2745-00 3-15-  Providing for the addition of Joliet-Naperville Road from the village corporate
        2000   limits to Illinois Route 53 to the municipal street system of the village.
Res.    4-3-   Agreement between the village and the county with respect to development and
2472-00 2000   ongoing operation of a common GIS database.
Res.    4-5-   Authorizing execution of an agreement with Finish Line Car Wash for the
2477-00 2000   enforcement of traffic regulations.
Res.    4-19-
2479-   2000   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
00-01
2759-00 5-4-   Providing for the recapture of the cost of certain water and sewer system
        2000   improvements between the village and Neumann Homes, Inc.
Res.    6-7-   Contract with Land Planning Services.
2501-00 2000
Res.    6-7-   Agreement between Romeoville Little League, Inc.; Romeoville Pony Baseball,
2502-00 2000   Inc.; and the village.
Res.    6-7-   Agreement with Illinois Central Railroad.
2503-00 2000
Res.    6-7-   Agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
2504-00 2000
Res.    5-23-  Agreement with Jack D. Pickett & Associates.
2508-00 2000
Res.    5-23-  Agreement with Hitchcock Design Group.
2509-00 2000
Res.    6-21-  Agreement between Romeoville and Lumina, Inc.
2510-00 2000
Res.    6-21-  Agreement between Romeoville and KC Audio.
2511-00 2000
Res.    8-2-   License agreement between the village and Romeoville Spartan Youth Football.
2537-00 2000
Res.    8-16-  Agreement with LandTech.
2535-00 2000
Res.    8-16-  Agreement with Kenneth Company.
2536-00 2000
Res.    9-6-   Contract with McCahill Paint.
2542-00 2000
Res.    9-6-   Contract with Zoll.
2543-00 2000
Res.    9-6-   Contract with Hitchcock Design Group.
2544-00 2000
Res.    10-4-  Agreement with Patrick Landscaping.
2551-00 2000
Res.    10-4-  Contract with Bill Jacobs Chevrolet.
2552-00 2000
Res.    10-4-  Contract with K-Five Construction Corporation.
2554-00 2000
Res.    10-4-  Contract with Corlands.
2559-00 2000
Res.    10-4-  Contract with LandTech.
2560-00 2000
Res.    10-4-  Agreement with G.A.T., Ltd.
2561-00 2000
Res.    10-4-  Agreement with State Department of Transportation.
2562-00 2000
Res.    10-4-  License agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America.
2563-00 2000
2795-00 10-18- Local Agency State Agreement for Jurisdictional Transfer and a reimbursement
        2000   agreement.
Res.    11-1-  Contract with Hastings Air Energy Control.
2575-00 2000
Res.    11-15- Contract with Horton Ambulance.
2578-00 2000
Res.    11-15- Contract with McCann Industries.
2579-00 2000
Res.    11-15- Contract with McCann Industries.
2580-00 2000
               Agreement that expands the scope of reciprocal reporting of criminal
Res.    11-15- information between the village and Plainfield School District no. 202, and the
2581-00 2000   other law enforcement agencies having jurisdiction with Plainfield School
               District no. 202.
Res.    12-6-  Agreement with Flexible Pavement.
2586-00 2000
Res.    12-6-  Agreement with Petrovic Construction, Inc.
2587-00 2000
Res.    12-6-  Contract with Henry Brothers Construction Management Services, Inc.
2588-00 2000
14-01   1-24-  Infrastructure service agreement with Pizzuti Management.
        2001
Res.    2-7-   Authorizing the Village Manager to enter into an agreement for RomeoFest
13-01   2001   Entertainment and/or other RomeoFest related items.
Res.    2-7-   Contract with Hitchcock Design Group.
14-01   2001
Res.    2-7-   Successor collective bargaining agreements between the village and the American
25-01   2001   Federation of State, County and Municipal employees, Council 31, AFL-CIO for
               the public works unit and the clerical unit.
Res.    3-20-  Agreement between the village and DMG-Maximus, Inc. for human resource
38-01   2001   management consulting services.
51-01   3-21-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the village
        2001   and the Village of Bolingbrook.
52-01   3-21-  Approving the execution and delivery of an intergovernmental agreement
        2001   described as the first time homebuyer’s assist program.
Res.    4-4-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Strand Associates, Inc.
40-01   2001
Res.    4-18-  Agreement between the Village Recreation Department and the Romeoville Little
62-01   2001   League.
Res.    5-16-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Romeoville
73-01   2001   Public Television.
Res.    5-16-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the village
75-01   2001   and State Department of Transportation.
Res.    5-16-  Agreement between the village and Lumina, Inc.
85-01   2001
Res.    6-6-   Agreement with KC Audio.
94-01   2001
71-01   6-6-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Lakewood
        2001   Falls Phase 7, LLC.
Res.    7-11-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Hassert
119-01  2001   Landscaping.
Res.    7-11-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and V-
120-01  2001   3 Construction Group, Ltd.
Res.    7-18-  Agreement between the Village Recreation Department and Romeoville Spartan
131-01  2001   Youth Football.
Res.    8-1-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and James D.
133-01  2001   Fiala Paving Co., Inc.
Res.    8-1-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Hawk
135-01  2001   Enterprises.
Res.    8-15-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Natgun
139-01  2001   Corporation.
Res.    8-15-  Authorizing a change order for the contract between the village and V-
140-01  2001   3 Construction.
Res.    9-5-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and 5-ALARM.
144-01  2001
Res.    9-5-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Dawn
145-01  2001   Companies.
Res.    9-5-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Standard
147-01  2001   Equipment.
Res.    9-19-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Waste
150-01  2001   Management.
Res.    10-17- Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Hendricksen.
152-01  2001
Res.    11-7-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Tire Tracks.
160-01  2001
Res.    11-7-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Stoller
161-01  2001   International, Inc.
Res.    11-20- Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and McCann
165-01  2001   Construction Company.
Res.    1-2-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the Village Recreation
176-01  2002   Department and Coca-Cola Bottling Company.
106-01  1-2-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Third
        2002   Millennium Associates, Inc.
0004-02 2-6-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and James D.
        2002   Fiala Paving for the reconstruction of Taylor Road Phase II.
0013-02 2-20-  Authorizing the execution of a recapture agreement between the village and
        2002   Catellus Commercial Development Corporation.
Res.    3-6-   Authorizing the Village Manager to enter into an agreement for RomeoFest
0012-02 2002   entertainment and/or RomeoFest related items.
Res.    3-6-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Hitchcock
0013-02 2002   Design Group.
Res.    3-6-   Authorizing the execution of an interlocal agreement between the village and
0014-02 2002   the Valley View Community Unit School District.
Res.    3-20-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Braniff
0017-02 2002   Communications.
Res.    3-20-  Authorizing the Village Manager to enter into an agreement with Wight and
0018-02 2002   Company.
0018-02 4-3-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Wespark
        2002   Master Association.
0022-02 4-3-   Intergovernmental agreement for joint issuance, sale and delivery of bonds to
        2002   obtain funds to finance the acquisition of mortgage-based securities.
Res.    4-3-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Hitchcock
0032-02 2002   Design Group.
Res.    4-17-  Approving the agreement between the village Pony League Baseball and the
0033-02 2002   Village Recreation Department.
Res.    4-17-  Approving agreement between Romeoville Little League baseball and the Village
0037-02 2002   Recreation Department.
Res.    4-17-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Duke Realty
0038-02 2002   Corporation.
Res.    4-17-  Contract between the village and V-3 Infrastructure Services, Ltd. for
0040-02 2002   preparing contract documents to provide and install preemptive signalization
               equipment.
Res.    5-1-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Knowles
0044-02 2002   Printing.
Res.    5-1-   Supplemental agreement between the village and Pizzuti Management, LLC.
0045-02 2002
Res.    5-15-  Authorizing a change order for the contract with V3 Construction.
0055-02 2002
Res.    5-15-  Approving agreement between village and Baxter & Woodman.
0056-02 2002
Res.    6-12-  Approving agreement between village and Baxter & Woodman.
0066-02 2002
Res.    6-19-  Authorizing village to enter into contract with Wight Construction Services,
0067-02 2002   Inc.
Res.    6-19-  Approving an agreement between Romeoville Spartan Football and the Village
0072-02 2002   Recreation Department.
Res.    6-19-  Addendum to agreement with State Department of Transportation for road
0073-02 2002   improvement dated 12-14-2000.
Res.    6-19-  Authorizing a license agreement between Crossroads Lakes, LLC and NGLPA.
0077-02 2002
Res.    7-3-   Approving an agreement between the village and V3 Infrastructure Services.
0086-02 2002
Res.    7-3-   Contract between the village and Harry W. Kuhn, Inc. for the reconstruction of
0087-02 2002   Normantown Road.
Res.    7-17-  Approving an agreement between the village and Commonwealth Edison.
0090-02 2002
Res.    8-7-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Denler, Inc.
0106-02 2002
Res.    8-8-   Consenting to the change of control of the cable television franchisee from
0076-02 2002   AT&T Corporation to AT&T Comcast Corporation.
Res.    8-21-  Approving an agreement between the village and Morris Engineering, Inc.
0117-02 2002
Res.    8-21-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Wight
0118-02 2002   Construction Services, Inc.
Res.    8-26-  Agreement between the village and the Remington Apartment Complex for law
0126-02 2002   enforcement presence.
0060-02 9-5-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between village and Hondo, Inc.
        2002
Res.    9-5-   Agreement between the village and the Jewel/Osco for law enforcement presence.
0125-02 2002
Res.    9-6-   Agreement between the village and the State Police.
0079-02 2002
Res.    9-18-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Extended Stay America for law
0129-02 2002   enforcement presence.
Res.    9-18-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Extended Stay America for
0130-02 2002   traffic enforcement.
Res.    9-18-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and the Wesglen
0131-02 2002   Country Club Association for traffic enforcement.
Res.    9-18-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and the Wesglen
0132-02 2002   Country Club Association for law enforcement presence.
Res.    9-19-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement between the county and the village
0054-02 2002   for construction of sidewalks, streetlights and crosswalks.
Res.    9-19-  Agreement between the village and the county for construction of sidewalks,
0054-02 2002   streetlights and crosswalks.
Res.    10-16- Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement between the village and the Village
0076-02 2002   of Bolingbrook.
0090-02 12-4-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the village
        2002   and the Lockport Township Park District.
Res.    12-4-  Agreement between the village and All World Storage for traffic enforcement.
0091-02 2002
Res.    12-4-  Agreement between the village and All World Storage for law enforcement
0092-02 2002   presence.
Res.    12-4-  Agreement between the village and the Crazy Rock for traffic enforcement.
0093-02 2002
Res.    12-4-  Agreement between the village and the Crazy Rock for law enforcement presence.
0094-02 2002
Res.    12-4-  Agreement between the village and the St. Andrews School Parish School for the
0166-02 2002   use of the recreation center facilities.
Res.    12-4-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Duke Realty
0167-02 2002   Corporation to improve Schmidt Road.
Res.    1-22-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Hitchcock
0005-03 2003   Design Group to create a master plan for the downtown area.
Res.    1-22-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement with the village and TRKLA,
0006-03 2003   Pettigrew, Allen & Payne, Inc. to complete studies and plans for the possible
               establishment of a Tax Increment Finance District.
Res.    2-5-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and Wight
0009-03 2003   Construction Services for the addition to Fire Station no. 2 and practical
               training tower.
0006-03 2-12-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental cooperation agreement.
        2003
        2-19-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to the intergovernmental agreement
0011-03 2003   between the village and the Lockport Township Fire and Ambulance District dated
               9-23-1997.
Res.    2-19-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the village
0011-03 2003   and the state to participate in the State Law Enforcement Alarm System.
Res.    3-5-   Authorizing the execution of a license agreement (and a supplemental agreement
0012-03 2003   pertaining to such license agreement) between the village and Natural Gas
               Pipeline Company of America.
Res.    3-19-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement between the village and American
0015-03 2003   Association of Utility Auditors, Inc.
Res.    3-19-  Authorizing the Village Manager to enter into an agreement for RomeoFest
0017-03 2003   entertainment and/or RomeoFest related items.
0024-03 3-19-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the Village
        2003   or Romeoville and the Village of Bolingbrook.
Res.    4-2-   Contract with Steve Spiess Construction, Inc. for construction of the Berkshire
0028-03 2003   Avenue Storm Sewer Extension.
Res.    4-2-   Contract with Steve Spiess Construction, Inc. for the construction of the Lilly
0029-03 2003   Cache Relief Sewer.
Res.    4-2-   Agreement with Daystar Computer Systems, Inc.
0031-03 2003
Res.    4-2-   Authorizing a data license intergovernment agreement with the county.
0032-03 2003
Res.    4-2-   Approving agreement between Romeoville Little League Baseball and Village
0034-03 2003   Recreation Department.
Res.    4-16-  Contract with James D. Fiala Asphalt for the Taylor Road Reconstruction
0042-03 2003   Project.
Res.    4-16-  Contract with Knowles Printing, Ltd. for Recreation Department brochure
0043-03 2003   printing services.
Res.    5-7-   Contract with Recreation Concepts of Oswego, Illinois for playground equipment.
0047-03 2003
Res.    5-7-   Accepting proposal from Kovilic Construction Company for the interim
0048-03 2003   improvements located at Wastewater Treatment Plant no. 1.
0036-03 5-21-  Authorizing an amendment to the Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone
        2003   intergovernmental agreement.
Res.    5-21-  Accepting proposal from Petrovic Construction for the installation of the
0053-03 2003   Airport Road water main - Phase 3.
Res.    5-21-  Accepting proposal from Infrastructure Construction Services for the
0054-03 2003   installation of the Belmont Drive Storm Sewer and Reconstruction.
Res.    5-21-  Authorizing a change order for V3 Construction.
0055-03 2003
Res.    5-21-  Agreement with Grand Haven Homeowners Association.
0058-03 2003
Res.    5-21-  Adopting collective bargaining agreements between the village and the
0059-03 2003   Metropolitan Alliance of Police (Romeoville Chapter).
Res.    6-4-   Contract with Nextel.
0062-03 2003
Res.    6-4-   Agreement with Frontier Construction for drawing and construction of the
0066-03 2003   storage area in the Recreation Center.
Res.    6-4-   Settlement agreement between the village and Westfalia Surge, Inc.
0068-03 2003
Res.    6-18-  Execution of a right-of-way acquisition agreement.
0070-03 2003
Res.    6-18-  Agreement between Romeoville Spartan Football and the Village Recreation
0071-03 2003   Department.
Res.    6-18-  Agreement with the State Department of Transportation.
0073-03 2003
Res.    6-18-  Execution of an agreement with Country Inns and Suites.
0074-03 2003
Res.    9-3-   Contract with URS-TRAP for the study of the Downtown Phase II and Phase III TIF
03-0100 2003   District Study.
03-0061 9-3-   Execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Woodridge.
        2003
Res.    10-1-  Execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the county regarding the
03-0126 2003   maintenance of certain traffic control devices.
Res.    10-15- Execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the county regarding the
03-0136 2003   maintenance of certain traffic control devices.
Res.    11-19- Agreement for RomeoFest Entertainment and/or other RomeoFest related items.
03-0153 2003
Res.    11-19- Agreement for certain street repairs and improvements in Lakewood Estates
03-0158 2003   Subdivision.
Res.    12-3-  Execution of a license agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America.
03-0162 2003
Res.    12-3-  Accepting bid by Braniff Communications for SCADA Siren Control System.
03-0163 2003
Res.    12-3-  Adopting successor collective bargaining agreements between the village and the
03-0164 2003   American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31, AFL-
               CIO for the public works unit and the clerical unit.
Res.    1-7-   Execution of an agreement with Industrial Appraisal Company.
04-0173 2004
Res.    1-7-   Accepting proposal from E. Stone, Inc. for the installation of emergency
04-0174 2004   generation equipment at the Romeoville Recreation Center.
Res.    2-4-   Accepting proposal from Meade Electric for the annual street light maintenance
04-0181 2004   activities.
Res.    2-4-   Execution of a compliance commitment agreement (CCA) with the State
04-0182 2004   Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) for radium compliance and authorizing
               engineering work by Strand Associates.
Res.    3-3-   Entering into a contract with Hitchcock Design Group for the design of
04-0199 2004   Volunteer Park, Phase II.
Res.    4-7-   Approving an agreement between Little League Baseball and the Recreation
04-0212 2004   Department.
Res.    4-7-   Approving an agreement between Pony League Baseball and the Recreation
04-0213 2004   Department.
Res.    4-21-  Execution of a tiered corrective action agreement with BP Products North
04-0219 2004   America, Inc.
Res.    6-16-  Accepting the proposal for the O’Hara Woods Pavilion renovation project.
04-0251 2004
Res.    6-16-  Authorizing a 457 Plan with Hartford.
04-0253 2004
04-0168 7-7-   Intergovernmental agreement for the Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone,
        2004   amendment to.
Res.    7-7-   Approving Robinson Engineering, Ltd. to complete a drainage study of the
04-0268 2004   Marquette Business Park.
Res.    7-21-  Approving an agreement between Spartan Football and the Recreation Department.
04-0271 2004
Res.    7-21-  Authorizing the acceptance of bids and the execution of contracts for the
04-0272 2004   construction of Yarmolek and Hassert Parks.
Res.    7-21-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with Valley View School District.
04-0274 2004
              
Res.    7-21-  Execution of an agreement with Weslake Country Club for traffic enforcement.
04-0275 2004
Res.    7-21-  Agreement between the village and Lockport Township and the Lockport Township
04-0278 2004   Commissioner of Highways.
Res.    8-18-  Waiving the bid procedure for Security Light Installation and approving a
04-0292 2004   contract with Kevin Electric.
Res.    8-18-  Waiving the bid procedure for the purchase of Skate Board Ramps from True Ride
04-0293 2004   for Volunteer Park Phase II, and entering agreement to install.
Res.    8-18-  Awarding the Airport Road Water Treatment Plant bid.
04-0299 2004
Res.    8-18-  Awarding bid by Braniff Communications.
04-0303 2004
Res.    9-15-  Acceptance of bid and execution of contract for folding and inserting machine.
04-0310 2004
Res.    9-15-  Waiving the bids for and accepting a contract with Frontier Construction.
04-0311 2004
Res.    9-15-  Authorizing the acceptance of and the execution of a contract for the lease of
04-0312 2004   and maintenance of copy equipment.
Res.    9-15-  Authorizing the acceptance of and the execution of a contract for Nextel
04-0316 2004   Phones.
Res.    10-6-  Awarding contract to Pro Circuit Lighting for install on diamond #3.
04-0323 2004
Res.    11-3-  Approving agreement between Professional Meters, Inc. and the village.
04-0339 2004
Res.    12-15- Awarding three-year contract to Lumina, Inc.
04-0352 2004
Res.    12-15- Approving the tax collection fee settlement agreement with the American
04-0354 2004   Association of Utility Auditors.
Res.    1-5-   Authorizing agreement between the village and Quantum Foods.
05-0362 2005
Res.    1-19-  Authorizing agreement between the village and Kane, McKenna and Associates.
05-0372 2005
Res.    2-2-   Waiving bids and accepting contract with Vohne Liche Kennels.
05-0375 2005
Res.    2-2-   Waiving bids and accepting contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
05-0378 2005
05-0249 2-16-  Wetland Credit Agreement with Land and Water Resources, Inc.
        2005
Res.    2-16-  Agreement between village and JAIS, Inc.
05-0383 2005
Res.    3-2-   Intergovernmental agreement with Joliet Regional Port District for acquisition
05-0384 2005   of public roadway right-of-way.
05-0262 3-16-  Wetland Credit Agreement with Land and Water Resources, Inc.
        2005
Res.    3-16-  Awarding sludge removal contract to Continental Farms.
05-0387 2005
Res.    3-16-  Authorizing contracts for RomeoFest related activities.
05-0388 2005
Res.    3-16-  Approving bid for 2005 sewer rehabilitation project.
05-0389 2005
Res.    3-16-  Approving bid for construction of Fairfax Avenue Ion Exchange Plant.
05-0391 2005
Res.    4-6-   Approving three-year carnival contract with All Around Amusements for
05-0394 2005   RomeoFest.
Res.    4-6-   Approving agreement between Romeoville Pony League Baseball and the Village
05-0397 2005   Recreation Department.
Res.    4-6-   Approving agreement between Romeoville Little League Baseball and the Village
05-0398 2005   Recreation Department.
Res.    4-20-  Approving bid for 2005 manhole rehabilitation project.
05-0407 2005
Res.    4-20-  Waiving bids and awarding contract to R.A. Rolink for concrete rehabilitation
05-0409 2005   program.
Res.    4-20-  Waiving bids and awarding contract to Neumann Company Contractors for painting
05-0410 2005   water storage reservoir.
Res.    4-20-  Accepting unit prices for annual resurfacing program from Orange Crush, Inc.
05-0411 2005
Res.    4-20-  Agreement between village and PSA Dewberry for space needs analysis.
05-0412 2005
Res.    4-20-  Approving bids for street light maintenance by Meade Electric.
05-0413 2005
05-0274 5-4-   Authorizing intergovernmental cooperation agreement related to the issuance of
        2005   revenue bonds.
Res.    5-18-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Bolingbrook
05-0428 2005   concerning the extension of Remington Boulevard.
Res.    5-18-  Authorizing agreement between the village and C.H. Johnson Consulting, Inc.
05-0429 2005
Res.    6-1-   Contract with Green-Up Landscaping for construction of Kiwanis Park.
05-0433 2005
Res.    6-1-   Authorizing execution of a public works intergovernmental mutual aid agreement
05-0435 2005   with the County Governmental League.
Res.    6-1-   Agreement between the village, Harbour Construction and the Fred Barofsky
05-0436 2005   Company.
Res.    6-15-  Contract with Flexible Paving for construction of Boucher Park.
05-0444 2005
Res.    6-15-  Waiving bid requirements and contracting for the purchase of firefighting
05-0445 2005   vehicles.
Res.    6-15-  Execution of contracts for the lease purchase agreements for vehicles.
05-0447 2005
Res.    6-15-  Traffic enforcement agreement with Pasquinelli-Creekside, Inc.
05-0446 2005
05-0290 7-6-   Redevelopment and intergovernmental agreement (Valley View School District
        2005   transportation facility).
Res.    7-6-   Waiving bid requirements and awarding contract for Police Department equipment.
05-0448 2005
05-0295 7-20-  Intergovernmental agreement and real estate purchase contract.
        2005
Res.    8-3-   Waiving bid requirement and awarding contract for Fire Department staff cars.
05-0456 2005
Res.    8-3-   Waiving bid requirement and awarding contract for Police Department equipment.
05-0457 2005
Res.    8-3-   Waiving bid requirement and awarding contract for Police Department equipment.
05-0458 2005
Res.    8-3-   Contract with Williams Brothers Construction, Inc. for the wastewater treatment
05-0460 2005   facility consolidation project.
Res.    8-23-  Waiving bid requirement and approving purchase of one Ingersoll-Rand Roller.
05-0466 2005
Res.    8-23-  Waiving bid requirement for the purchase of playground equipment for Boucher
05-0467 2005   Prairie Park.
Res.    8-23-  Agreement between Romeoville Spartan Football and the Village Recreation
05-0468 2005   Department.
Res.    9-7-   Waiving bid requirement for construction of the Carillon Drive Ion Exchange
05-0474 2005   Plant.
Res.    9-7-   Traffic enforcement agreement with St. Andrew the Apostle.
05-0475 2005
Res.    9-7-   Local agency agreement for federal participation - Phase I and the preliminary
05-0476 2005   engineering services agreement for the intersection upgrades at Illinois Route
               53 and University Parkway.
05-0310 9-7-   Execution of a development agreement.
        2005
Res.    10-5-  Approving the purchase of bulk road salt from Cargill Incorporated Salt
05-0483 2005   Division.
Res.    11-2-  Authorizing the purchase of one walking/bike path asphalt paver from Casey
05-0494 2005   Equipment Company.
Res.    11-2-  Waiving bid requirement and approving the purchase of one Ford F-450 service
05-0497 2005   truck with insulated aerial bucket lift.
Res.    11-2-  Waiving bids for landscaping and accepting Walsh Landscape proposal.
05-0498 2005
Res.    11-16- Waiving bid requirement and authorizing the purchase of 28 personal computer
05-0503 2005   systems and two laptop computers systems from Hewlett Packard.
Res.    12-7-  Authorizing the purchase of one compact excavator through McCann Industries.
05-0507 2005
Res.    12-21- Waiving bid requirement for the purchase of two emergency sirens from Braniff
05-0515 2005   Communications.
Res.    12-21- Approving bid from Spiess Construction, Inc. for the 2005 Manhole
05-0516 2005   Rehabilitation Project - Phase 2.
Res.    12-21- Approving bid from National Power Rodding Corporation for the 2005 Preparatory
05-0518 2005   Cleaning and Internal Television Inspection.
05-0347 12-21- Agreement between the village and Professional Realty Development Corporation.
        2005
05-0359 12-21- Development agreement between the village and the Huskies Hockey Club.
        2005
Res.    1-4-   Contract with Hitchcock Design Group for the purpose of designing the
05-0520 2006   Normantown Road Islands.
Res.    2-1-   Contract with PSA Dewberry for architectural services.
06-0522 2006
Res.    2-1-   Contract with PSA Dewberry for architectural services.
06-0523 2006
Res.    2-1-   Waiving public bidding requirement and approving purchase of one 32-ton vehicle
06-0526 2006   lift system from Gray Equipment.
Res.    2-1-   Authorizing contract between Halo Entertainment and the Recreation Department.
06-0527 2006
06-0371 2-1-   Agreement between the village and Chicago Tube and Iron.
        2006
06-0372 2-1-   Agreement between the village and Pollmann North America.
        2006
Res.    2-15-  Authorizing execution of an ordinance enforcement agreement with the Lakewood
06-0540 2006   Falls 7C Homeowners’ Association.
06-0378 2-15-  Execution of an antenna license agreement.
        2006
Res.    3-1-   Agreement and contract with Rochelle Printing for program brochures.
06-0541 2006
Res.    3-1-   Agreement between Romeoville Little League Baseball and the Village Recreation
06-0542 2006   Department.
Res.    3-1-   Agreement between Romeoville Pony League Baseball and the Village Recreation
06-0543 2006   Department.
Res.    3-1-   Waiving public bidding requirements on Police Department equipment.
06-0544 2006
Res.    3-1-   Waiving competitive bidding process and authorizing the purchase of 160
06-0545 2006   Microsoft Office 2003 licenses.
Res.    3-1-   Waiving public bidding requirement for ballfield lighting.
06-0547 2006
Res.    3-1-   Waiving public bidding and entering into a contract with J. Hassert Landscaping
06-0549 2006   for the Route 53 Beautification Project.
Res.    3-1-   Executing an ordinance enforcement agreement with the owners of Rose Plaza
06-0551 2006   Property.
Res.    3-15-  Waiving public bidding requirement for Police Department equipment.
06-0552 2006
Res.    3-15-  Approving purchase of one 2006 Ford F-550 service truck from Bod Ridings.
06-0553 2006
Res.    3-15-  Approving purchase of one 2006 Chevrolet Silverado 2500HD pick-up truck from
06-0554 2006   Green Chevrolet.
06-0385 3-15-  Amendment to a development agreement with Professional Realty and Development
        2006   Corporation (PRDC).
Res.    4-5-   Approving purchase of one Amkus Rescue Tool from Amkus Rescue Systems.
06-0561 2006
Res.    4-5-   Waiving public bidding requirements for FY06/07 concrete rehabilitation
06-0562 2006   program.
Res.    4-5-   Waiving public bidding requirements and awarding contract to Flexible Paving
06-0563 2006   for the construction of soccer fields at Wesglen Park.
Res.    4-5-   Waiving public bidding requirements and awarding contract to Northwest Fence
06-0564 2006   for the construction of outfield fencing at Volunteer Park.
Res.    4-15-  Waiving public bidding requirement for Police Department equipment.
06-0558 2006
Res.    4-19-  Waiving public bidding requirements and awarding contract for Police Department
06-0567 2006   equipment.
Res.    4-19-  Awarding contract with Lyons Electric Company, Inc. for the 2006/2007 Traffic
06-0572 2006   Signal Maintenance Project.
Res.    5-3-   Authorizing contract between Gainer’s Gymnastics and the Recreation Department.
06-0575 2006
Res.    5-3-   Authorizing contract with Flexible Pavement to construct the ComEd Bike Trail,
06-0576 2006   Phase I.
Res.    5-3-   Waiving public bidding requirements and approving contract with McCann
06-0577 2006   Equipment.
Res.    5-3-   Waiving public bidding requirements and accepting proposal from Orange Crush,
06-0589 2006   LLC.
Res.    5-17-  Waiving public bidding requirement and accepting proposal from Neumann Company
06-0581 2006   Contractors.
Res.    5-17-  Approving contract with James D. Fiala Paving for Airport Road Phases 3 and 4A
06-0586 2006   reconstruction.
Res.    5-17-  Waiving public bidding requirements and accepting proposal from Fiala Paving
06-0588 2006   Company, Inc.
Res.    6-7-   Waiving public bidding requirements for the lease purchase of a Pierce Enforcer
06-0591 2006   Pumper from Global Emergency Products, Inc.
Res.    6-7-   Execution of an agreement between the village and the Orland Central Emergency
06-0592 2006   Communications Center.
Res.    6-7-   Execution of an Odor Alert Network membership agreement.
06-0593 2006
Res.    6-7-   Execution of contracts with Chase Equipment Leasing, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
06-0594 2006   Bank, NA.
Res.    6-7-   Execution of contracts with Chase Equipment Leasing, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
06-0595 2006   Bank, NA.
Res.    6-7-   Executing an agreement with Austin Tyler Company for the Normantown Road Island
06-0597 2006   project.
Res.    6-7-   Waiving public bidding requirements and approving purchase from Standard
06-0599 2006   Equipment Company.
Res.    6-7-   Authorizing agreement between the village and Bensinger, DuPont & Associates.
06-0600 2006
Res.    6-7-   Approving contract with Tri-Tech Electric, Inc.
06-0601 2006
Res.    6-7-   Execution of a license agreement.
06-0602 2006
Res.    6-21-  Waiving bidding requirements and accepting proposal from Recreation Concepts.
06-0604 2006
Res.    6-21-  Waiving bidding requirements and accepting price quotation from Hewlett
06-0606 2006   Packard.
Res.    6-21-  Waiving bidding requirements and entering into an agreement with W.S. Darley &
06-0607 2006   Company & Fireground Supply.
Res.    7-19-  Waiving bidding requirements and accepting bids from CDS Office Technologies
06-0617 2006   and Kustom Signals.
Res.    7-19-  Approving contract with George’s Landscaping, Inc. for Weslake Park
06-0619 2006   improvements.
Res.    7-19-  Approving contract with Len Cox and Sons Excavating for Malibu Drive extension.
06-0622 2006
Res.    8-2-   Waiving bidding requirements and accepting bid from American Forklifter.
06-0624 2006
Res.    8-2-   Agreement between Romeoville Spartan Football and the Village Recreation
06-0627 2006   Department.
Res.    8-16-  Agreement between the village and Brunswick Zone Romeoville.
06-0625 2006
Res.    8-16-  Agreement between the village and First Baptist Church of Romeoville.
06-0635 2006
Res.    9-6-   Executing a contract with George’s Landscaping for the Village Park Tennis
06-0638 2006   Court renovation project.
Res.    9-6-   Waiving bidding requirements and awarding bid to Martin Whalen Office
06-0642 2006   Solutions.
Res.    9-6-   Professional services agreement with Azavar Technologies.
06-0647 2006
Res.    10-18- Waving bidding process and entering into a contract with Metalline Steel
06-0652 2006   Fabricators.
Res.    10-18- Waiving bidding requirements and awarding bid to Sportsfield, Inc.
06-0653 2006
Res.    10-18- Waiving bidding requirements and accepting bid of Great Midwest Contracting
06-0654 2006   Corporation.
Res.    11-15- Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Lakewood Falls Phase 5.
06-0666 2006
Res.    11-15- Waiving bidding requirements and accepting proposal submitted by Orange Crush,
06-0667 2006   LLC.
Res.    11-15- Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Waste Management.
06-0669 2006
06-0482 12-6-  Executing a development agreement with the Meadowdale Estates Townhome
        2006   Association.
Res.    12-6-  Waiving public bidding requirements and purchasing a camera.
06-0670 2006
Res.    12-6-  Waiving public bidding requirements and purchasing equipment through Kustom
06-0671 2006   Signals, Inc.
Res.    12-6-  Waiving bidding requirements and accepting bid of Cues, Inc.
06-0673 2006
Res.    12-6-  Authorizing the participation in the Northern Illinois Municipal Electric
06-0680 2006   Cooperative (NIMEC) and authorizing the Village Manager to approve a contract
               with the lowest cost electricity provider.
Res.    12-6-  Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement with NITEC Communications,
06-0681 2006   Inc.
Res.    1-17-  Authorizing the acceptance of and the execution of a contract with Whalen
07-0713 2007   Office Solutions, Inc.
Res.    2-7-   Authorizing the execution of an ordinance enforcement agreement (Malibu Bay).
07-0716 2007
Res.    2-7-   Authorizing the approval and ratification of a 15- month contract with
07-0718 2007   Constellation New Energy, Inc.
07-0512 2-21-  Executing a contract for purchase of property commonly described as 20345 W.
        2007   Normantown Road.
Res.    2-21-  Waiving public bidding requirements and purchasing a car.
07-0719 2007
Res.    3-7-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing three trucks through Hennessy Ford.
07-0721 2007
Res.    3-7-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing four trucks through Hennessy Ford.
07-0722 2007
Res.    3-7-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing two vehicles through Hennessy Ford.
07-0723 2007
Res.    3-7-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing one truck from Bob Ridings.
07-0724 2007
Res.    3-7-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing one van through Hennessy Ford.
07-0728 2007
07-0520 3-21-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to the intergovernmental agreement
        2007   with the Lockport Fire Protection District.
Res.    3-21-  Waiving the bidding process and purchasing seven cars through Sutton Ford.
07-0729 2007
Res.    3-21-  Waiving the bidding process and purchasing two cars through Miles Chevrolet.
07-0730 2007
Res.    4-4-   Approving an agreement between Romeoville Pony League Baseball and the village.
07-0734 2007
Res.    4-4-   Approving an agreement between Romeoville Little League Baseball and the
07-0735 2007   village.
Res.    4-4-   Executing an agreement with Hassert Landscaping.
07-0737 2007
Res.    4-4-   Waiving the public bidding requirements and purchasing equipment from Zoll
07-0738 2007   Medical Corporation.
Res.    4-4-   Waiving the public bidding requirements and accepting bid from R.A. Rolnik.
07-0739 2007
Res.    4-4-   Waiving the competitive bid process and purchasing computers from CDW.
07-0740 2007
Res.    4-18-  Approving an agreement between Romeoville Girls’ Softball Booster Club and the
07-0736 2007   village.
Res.    4-18-  Waiving bidding requirements and purchasing a tractor from JW Turf.
07-0742 2007
Res.    4-18-  Waiving bidding requirements and purchasing a mower from JW Turf.
07-0743 2007
Res.    4-18-  Waiving bidding requirements and entering into a contract with The Fence Store.
07-0744 2007
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the public bidding requirements and accepting the proposal submitted by
07-0747 2007   Orange Crush, LLC.
Res.    4-18-  Awarding contract for the 2007/2008 street lighting maintenance project.
07-0748 2007
Res.    4-18-  Approving the bid from Michels Corporation.
07-0750 2007
Res.    4-18-  Approving the bid from Insituform Technologies USA, Inc.
07-0751 2007
Res.    4-18-  Approving the bid from Kim Construction Co., Inc.
07-0752 2007
Res.    4-18-  Agreement for the installation of traffic signals.
07-0754 2007
Res.    4-18-  Approving an agreement with ComEd.
07-0756 2007
Res.    4-18-  Waiving public bidding requirements and proceeding with J. Hassert Landscaping.
07-0758 2007
Res.    5-2-   Waiving public bidding requirements and proceeding with J. Hassert Landscaping.
07-0762 2007
Res.    5-2-   Authorizing a lease agreement with Direct Fitness Solutions and Allstate
07-0766 2007   Capital.
Res.    5-2-   Waiving public bidding requirements and purchasing equipment from Zoll Medical
07-0769 2007   Corporation.
Res.    5-2-   Agreement between the village and the county.
07-0770 2007
Res.    5-2-   Waiving public bidding requirements and purchasing street signs from Traffic
07-0771 2007   Control Corporation.
Res.    5-16-  Approving the bid from Flexible Paving.
07-0776 2007
Res.    6-6-   Waiving the bidding requirements and purchasing a brush chipper.
07-0782 2007
Res.    6-6-   Awarding a contract to Denler, Inc.
07-0783 2007
Res.    6-6-   Waiving the public bidding requirements and accepting bid from Austin-Tyler
07-0784 2007   Construction, LLC.
Res.    6-6-   Authorizing the acceptance of a bid and the execution of a contract with
07-0785 2007   Kenneth Company.
Res.    6-6-   Waiving the bidding process and accepting bid of Kustom Signals, Inc. and CDS
07-0787 2007   Office Technologies.
Res.    6-6-   Waiving the bidding requirement and entering into a contract with Robinette.
07-0788 2007
Res.    6-6-   Waiving the bidding process and accepting bid from James D. Fiala Paving.
07-0789 2007
Res.    6-6-   Execution of a contract with Henkels & McCoy.
07-0790 2007
Res.    6-6-   Authorizing the execution of an ordinance enforcement agreement (Honeytree
07-0791 2007   Improvement Association/Meadowalk).
Res.    6-6-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing one truck from Bob Ridings.
07-0792 2007
Res.    6-6-   Entering into a contract with V3 Companies of Illinois.
07-0793 2007
Res.    6-6-   Authorizing the execution of a graffiti removal agreement with Chicagoland
07-0794 2007   Graffiti Removal.
Res.    6-6-   Authorizing the execution of a graffiti removal agreement with Mobile Anti-
07-0795 2007   Graffiti Coating.
Res.    6-20-  Waiving the bidding process and purchasing equipment through Ray O’Herron Co.,
07-0797 2007   Inc.
Res.    6-20-  Accepting bid from Tri-Tech Electric Inc.
07-0799 2007
Res.    6-20-  Accepting bid from Dawn Companies, Inc.
07-0800 2007
Res.    6-20-  Waiving the public bidding requirements and entering into a contract with K-
07-0801 2007   Five Construction Corporation.
Res.    6-20-  Waiving the public bidding requirements and accepting proposal by Orange Crush,
07-0802 2007   LLC.
Res.    6-20-  Authorizing the execution of a contract with Leopardo.
07-0804 2007
07-0565 7-18-  Authorizing the execution of an economic incentive agreement.
        2007
Res.    7-18-  Waiving public bidding requirements and entering into a contract with Musco
07-0807 2007   Lighting.
Res.    7-18-  Entering into an agreement with Illinois Convenience and Safety Corporation.
07-0808 2007
Res.    7-18-  Adopting successor collective bargaining agreements between the village and the
07-0809 2007   American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31, AFL-
               CIO.
Res.    7-18-  Authorizing the execution of an ordinance enforcement agreement with Pointe at
07-0810 2007   Fieldstone.
Res.    8-1-   Waiving the public bidding requirements and purchasing equipment from Zoll
07-0815 2007   Medical Corporation.
Res.    8-1-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing squad car equipment through CDS and
07-0816 2007   Chicago Communications.
Res.    8-1-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing one squad car through Sutton Ford.
07-0817 2007
Res.    8-1-   Approving bid from H&H Electric Company.
07-0820 2007
Res.    8-1-   Waiving the bidding process and accepts the proposal from Orange Crush, LLC.
07-0821 2007
Res.    8-1-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Romeoville Public Television
07-0822 2007   (RPTV).
Res.    8-1-   Waiving the bidding process and entering into a contract with Steven Spiess
07-0823 2007   Construction.
07-0577 8-15-  Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with Air-Web, LLC.
        2007
Res.    8-15-  Approving agreement between Romeoville Spartan Football and the Recreation
07-0824 2007   Department.
Res.    8-15-  Authorizing the village to execute a 20-month contract with the GAD Group, LLC.
07-0830 2007
Res.    9-5-   Approving agreement with AT&T.
07-0831 2007
Res.    9-5-   Approving agreement with Comcast Cable.
07-0832 2007
Res.    9-19-  Authorizing a development agreement with McDonald’s.
07-0837 2007
Res.    9-19-  Waiving the bidding requirements and extending the 2007 roadway crack sealing
07-0845 2007   contract.
Res.    10-3-  Executing a contract with Flexible Pavement, Inc.
07-0847 2007
Res.    10-3-  Entering into a contract with Commonwealth Edison.
07-0853 2007
Res.    10-17- Authorizing a compliance/amnesty program with Romeoville Commercial Industrial
07-0839 2007   Park.
Res.    10-17- Utilizing the state bid purchasing program and contracting with Morton Salt.
07-0855 2007
Res.    10-17- Entering into a contract with Kenneth Company.
07-0856 2007
Res.    10-17- Executing an agreement with Industrial Appraisal Company.
07-0858 2007
Res.    10-17- Waiving bidding requirements and authorizing a contract with Land and Lakes
07-0860 2007   Company.
Res.    10-17- Authorizing a contract with Leopardo Companies.
07-0861 2007
Res.    11-7-  Waiving bidding requirements and approving purchase from Stoller International.
07-0862 2007
Res.    11-7-  Entering into a contract with Fuerte Systems, Inc.
07-0864 2007
Res.    11-7-  Authorizing contract with Electronic Commerce Link, Inc.
07-0869 2007
Res.    11-7-  Waiving bidding process and authorizing purchase from Hewlett Packard.
07-0870 2007
Res.    11-7-  Entering into a contract with The Fence Store.
07-0871 2007
07-0612 11-21- Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement between the village and the Forest
        2007   Preserve District of the county.
Res.    11-21- Authorizing execution of a contract with PSA Dewberry.
07-0874 2007
Res.    12-19- Entering into a contract with GLI, Inc.
07-0884 2007
Res.    12-19- Authorizing the execution of consulting agreement with Dr. Vilem Petr of the
07-0887 2007   Colorado School of Mines.
Res.    12-19- Authorizing an agreement with the Office of the State Fire Marshal.
07-0888 2007
Res.    1-16-  Entering into a contract with Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Chicago.
07-0885 2008
Res.    1-16-  Waiving bids and awarding a one-year contract to Lumina, Inc.
07-0894 2008
Res.    2-6-   Waiving bidding requirements and entering into a contract with Great Midwest.
08-0899 2008
Res.    2-6-   Waiving bidding requirements and entering into a contract with Testing Service
08-0900 2008   Corporation.
Res.    2-6-   Waiving bidding requirements and entering into a contract with Testing Service
08-0901 2008   Corporation.
Res.    2-20-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Citgo Petroleum
08-0906 2008   Corporation and PDV Midwest Refining, LLC.
Res.    3-5-   Entering into an agreement with Hitchcock Design Group.
08-0907 2008
Res.    3-5-   Entering into an agreement with Hitchcock Design Group.
08-0908 2008
Res.    3-5-   Approving an agreement between Romeoville Pony League Baseball and Recreation
08-0909 2008   Department.
Res.    3-5-   Waiving bidding process and authorizing the execution of a management agreement
08-0911 2008   with Caton Commercial Real Estate Group.
Res.    3-19-  Executing an intergovernmental agreement with Valley View School District.
08-0913 2008
Res.    3-19-  Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement.
08-0915 2008
Res.    4-2-   Utilizing the State Bid Purchasing Program and purchasing from Bob Ridings.
08-0923 2008
Res.    4-2-   Utilizing the State Bid Purchasing Program and purchasing from Bill Jacobs of
08-0924 2008   Joliet.
Res.    4-2-   Waiving bidding requirements and proceeding with J. Hassert Landscaping.
08-0925 2008
Res.    4-16-  Waiving the bidding process and purchasing through Sutton Ford.
08-0927 2008
Res.    4-16-  Waiving the bidding process and approving the purchase of squad car equipment.
08-0928 2008
Res.    4-16-  Executing a contract with Crowther Roofing.
08-0929 2008
Res.    4-16-  Awarding a contract to Denler, Inc.
08-0937 2008
Res.    4-16-  Awarding a contract to Globe Construction, Inc.
08-0938 2008
Res.    4-16-  Awarding a contract to Meade Electric Company, Inc.
08-0939 2008
08-0650 4-16-  Adopting successor collective bargaining agreement between the village and the
        2008   Metropolitan Alliance of Police (Romeoville Chapter).
Res.    5-7-   Awarding a contract to Orange Crush, LLC.
08-0943 2008
Res.    5-7-   Awarding a contract to Orange Crush, LLC.
08-0944 2008
Res.    5-7-   Awarding a contract to Orange Crush, LLC.
08-0945 2008
Res.    5-7-   Approving a contract with Commonwealth Edison.
08-0946 2008
Res. -  5-7-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement for the TERT
        2008   Taskforce.
Res. -  5-7-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the County of
        2008   Kendall.
Res. -  5-7-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the County of
        2008   Kankakee.
Res. -  5-7-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the County of
        2008   Grundy.
Res.    5-7-   Awarding a contract to Orange Crush, LLC.
08-0956 2008
Res.    5-7-   Executing contracts with various contractors for the construction of the
08-0957 2008   Village Hall/Police Facility.
Res.    5-21-  Authorizing an agreement with Gruen Gruen and Associates.
08-0959 2008
Res.    5-21-  Waiving the bidding process and authorizing an agreement with Telecom
08-0961 2008   Innovations.
Res.    5-21-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Lewis University.
08-0962 2008
Res.    6-4-   Waiving bidding requirements and proceeding with J. Hassert Landscaping.
08-0963 2008
Res.    6-18-  Waiving the bidding process and purchasing from Bill Jacobs Chevrolet.
08-0968 2008
Res.    6-18-  Waiving the bidding process and purchasing through Ray O’Herron, StopTech, Car
08-0970 2008   Reflections and Chicago Communications.
Res.    6-18-  Utilizing the Illinois Association of County Board Members Contract and
08-0971 2008   purchasing from JW Turf.
Res.    6-18-  Waiving bidding and authorizing the purchase from Video Services of America.
08-0973 2008
Res.    7-2-   Waiving bidding requirements and entering into a contract with Wick Buildings.
08-0977 2008
Res.    7-16-  Extending the 2008 roadway crack sealing contract with Denler, Inc.
08-0982 2008
Res.    7-16-  Approving the bid from Visu-Sewer.
08-0985 2008
Res.    8-6-   Entering into a contract with J. Hassert Landscaping.
08-0990 2008
Res.    8-6-   Waiving the bidding process and entering into a contract with Identix.
08-0991 2008
Res.    8-6-   Authorizing the participation in the Northern Illinois Municipal Electric
08-0994 2008   Cooperative (NIMEC) and authorizing the Village Manager to approve a contract
               for 36 months.
Res.    8-6-   Authorizing the execution of a consent to a collateral agreement between
08-0996 2008   Rubloff Romeoville, LLC.
Res.    8-20-  Entering into a contract with George’s Landscaping, Inc.
08-0999 2008
Res.    8-20-  Authorizing the approval and ratification of a 36- month contract with Exelon
08-1000 2008   Energy Company.
Res.    8-20-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Weber Venture, LLC.
08-1002 2008
Res.    8-20-  Awarding a contract with George’s Landscaping, Inc.
08-1004 2008
Res.    9-3-   Approving the proposal from J. Russ and Company.
08-1005 2008
Res.    9-3-   Entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
08-1007 2008
Res.    9-3-   Entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
08-1008 2008
Res.    9-3-   Executing a development agreement with Nor-Web LLC.
08-1011 2008
Res.    9-3-   Authorizing an agreement with Kane, McKenna and Associates, Inc.
08-1013 2008
Res.    9-17-  Waiving the bids and awarding a contract to K-Five Construction.
08-1012 2008
Res.    9-17-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Lewis University.
08-1016 2008
Res.    10-1-  Utilizing the state bid purchasing program and approving contract with Cargill,
08-1017 2008   Inc.
Res.    10-1-  Authorizing an agreement with LandVision.
08-1021 2008
Res.    10-1-  Waiving the bidding process and entering into a contract with Hewlett Packard.
08-1022 2008
Res.    10-1-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Joliet
08-1027 2008   Regional Port District.
Res.    10-1-  Authorizing the execution of a traffic ordinance enforcement agreement for
08-1028 2008   Romeoville Crossings.
Res.    10-1-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Prologis Development
08-1030 2008   Services, Inc.
Res.    10-1-  Entering into a contract with DeKalb Paving, Inc.
08-1031 2008
Res.    10-15- Waiving bidding process and entering into a contract with All Traffic
08-1032 2008   Solutions.
Res.    10-15- Entering into a contract with V3 Construction.
08-1033 2008
Res.    10-15- Waiving bidding requirements and entering into a contract with J. Hassert
08-1035 2008   Landscaping.
Res.    11-5-  Waiving public bidding requirements and entering into a contract with
08-1038 2008   Steelcase/Interiors.
Res.    11-5-  Entering into a contract with Denler, Inc.
08-1043 2008
Res.    11-5-  Waiving competitive bid process and entering into a contract with CDS Office
08-1044 2008   Technologies.
Res.    11-5-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to a development agreement with Citgo
08-1047 2008   Petroleum Corporation and PDV Midwest Refining, LLC.
Res.    11-5-  Authorizing an agreement with United Communication Systems, d/b/a Call One.
08-1050 2008
Res.    11-5-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county.
08-1051 2008
Res.    11-5-  Authorizing the execution of a traffic/general ordinance enforcement agreement
08-1052 2008   with the owners of the Honeytree Subdivision property.
Res.    11-5-  Creating a neighborhood sign grant program.
08-1053 2008
Res.    11-19- Entering into a contract with C&T Construction.
08-1054 2008
Res.    11-19- Entering into a contract with Hitchcock Design Group.
08-1055 2008
Res.    11-19- Authorizing the execution of a traffic ordinance enforcement agreement with the
08-1059 2008   Valley View School District no. 365U property.
Res.    11-19- Authorizing the acceptance of and the execution of the contract for the lease
08-1060 2008   purchase agreement with Municipal Asset Management, Inc.
08-0730 12-3-  Authorizing the execution of an economic incentive agreement.
        2008
Res.    12-3-  Acceptance of utility easement agreement with RR Donnelly Logistics.
08-1065 2008
08-0742 1-7-   Authorizing the execution of a revised economic incentive agreement.
        2009
Res.    1-21-  Authorizing entering into an agreement with Reach Sports Marketing Group.
09-1077 2009
09-0745 1-21-  Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with SPX at 1385 N. Weber
        2009   Road.
Res.    1-21-  Authorizing entering into a contract with AT&T.
09-1080 2009
Res.    2-4-   Utilizing State Purchasing Program and purchasing a truck with Prairie
09-1082 2009   International.
Res.    2-4-   Utilizing State Purchasing Program and purchasing a truck with Prairie
09-1083 2009   International.
Res.    2-4-   Authorizing the execution of an ordinance enforcement agreement with the owners
09-1084 2009   of the Meadowdale Estates detention pond property.
Res.    2-18-  Authorizing entering into a contract with Corporate Construction.
09-1093 2009
Res.    3-4-   Entering into a contract with Midwest Transit Equipment.
09-1085 2009
Res.    3-4-   Waiving bidding requirement and awarding a one- year contract to Lumina, Inc.
09-1096 2009
Res.    3-4-   Authorizing the execution of a traffic/general ordinance enforcement agreement
09-1097 2009   with the owners of Bennish Car Wash.
Res.    3-18-  Approving an agreement between Romeoville Pony League Baseball and the Village
09-1100 2009   Recreation Department.
Res.    3-18-  Approving an agreement between Romeoville Little League Baseball and the
09-1101 2009   Village Recreation Department.
Res.    3-18-  Authorizing an agreement with Free Green Cans.
09-1102 2009
Res.    3-18-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Kehe Food
09-1103 2009   Distributors, Inc.
Res.    3-24-  Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement with LaSalle Bank National
09-1104 2009   Association.
Res.    4-1-   Entering into a three-year contract with Rochelle Printing Company.
09-1099 2009
Res.    4-1-   Waiving bidding process and entering into a contract with Bill Jacobs of
09-1106 2009   Joliet.
Res.    4-1-   Entering into a contract with Len Cox & Sons Excavating.
09-1107 2009
Res.    4-15-  Entering into a contract with Wick Building Systems, Inc.
09-1109 2009
Res.    4-15-  Entering into a contract with Midwest Coverall.
09-1110 2009
Res.    4-15-  Entering into a contract with Scott’s Lawn Care.
09-1111 2009
Res.    4-15-  Awarding contract to Denler, Inc.
09-1112 2009
Res.    4-15-  Waiving bidding requirements and entering into a contract with Comcast.
09-1117 2009
Res.    5-20-  Waiving the bidding process and purchasing three squad cars through Sutton
09-1120 2009   Ford.
Res.    5-20-  Waiving the bidding process and approving the purchase of Group 1 remote access
09-1122 2009   licenses and maintenance agreements.
Res.    5-20-  Waiving the bidding process and purchasing squad car equipment through Kustom
09-1123 2009   Signals, Inc. and CDS Office Technologies.
Res.    5-20-  Authorizing the execution of a consulting agreement between the village and
09-1124 2009   Brent Hassert Consulting, LLC.
Res.    5-20-  Awarding a contract to Meade Electric Company, Inc.
09-1131 2009
Res.    5-20-  Awarding a contract to Globe Construction, Inc.
09-1136 2009
Res.    5-20-  Utilizing state purchasing program and purchasing one 2009 Ford F550 from
09-1137 2009   Landmark Ford.
Res.    5-20-  Utilizing contract #06-LT00777 to purchase one John Deere 4720 Compact Tractor
09-1138 2009   from J.W. Turf.
Res.    5-20-  Utilizing state purchasing program to purchase one dump body, hydraulics, snow
09-1139 2009   plow and salt spreader from Monroe Equipment.
Res.    5-20-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Orland
09-1143 2009   Fire Protection District.
Res.    6-3-   Entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
09-1146 2009
Res.    6-17-  Awarding a contract to Flexible Pavement, Inc.
09-1148 2009
Res.    6-17-  Awarding a contract to Flexible Pavement, Inc.
09-1150 2009
Res.    6-17-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the County Highway Department.
09-1151 2009
Res.    6-17-  Awarding a contract to Orange Crush, LLC.
09-1153 2009
Res.    7-1-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with Valley View
09-1154 2009   School District.
Res.    7-1-   Authorizing a development agreement with St. Andrew the Apostle Parish.
09-1156 2009
Res.    7-15-  Waiving the bidding process and utilizing the Illinois Association of County
09-1159 2009   Board Members Joint Purchasing Contract to purchase one new JD4720 Compact
               Utility Tractor with JW Turf.
Res.    7-15-  Entering into a contract with Wingren Landscape, Inc.
09-1163 2009
Res.    7-15-  Authorizing contracts with various contractors for the construction of Deer
09-1164 2009   Crossing Park.
Res.    7-15-  Waiving the bidding procedure and accepting proposal from J.S. Alberico
09-1165 2009   Construction, Inc.
Res.    8-5-   Waiving bidding requirements and awarding a contract to American Fire Training
09-1162 2009   Systems, Inc.
Res.    8-5-   Executing an intergovernmental agreement with Valley View School District.
09-1169 2009
Res.    8-5-   Entering into a contract with Green-Up Landscaping, Inc.
09-1170 2009
Res.    8-5-   Entering into a contract with Beechen and Dill Homes, Inc.
09-1171 2009
Res.    8-5-   Awarding a contract to Visu-Sewer, Inc.
09-1173 2009
Res.    8-5-   Awarding a contract to Tri-Tech Electric, Inc.
09-1174 2009
Res.    8-5-   Authorizing and accepting the contract for the lease purchase agreement with
09-1175 2009   Municipal Asset Management, Inc.
Res.    8-19-  Authorizing a license agreement with Speedway SuperAmerica, LLC.
09-1180 2009
        9-2-   Adopting successor collective bargaining agreements between the village and The
09-0781 2009   American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31, AFL-
               CIO.
Res.    9-2-   Authorizing execution of a license agreement with Premcor Refining Group.
09-1182 2009
Res.    9-16-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of
09-1185 2009   Bolingbrook.
Res.    9-16-  Authorizing a contract with Motorola.
09-1188 2009
Res.    10-7-  Accepting a bid and entering into a contract with Continental Construction
09-1191 2009   Company.
Res.    10-7-  Waiving the bidding process and using Specialty Floors, Inc.
09-1192 2009
Res.    10-7-  Authorizing the acceptance and execution of a contract with Canon Financial
09-1193 2009   Services, Inc.
Res.    10-7-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Misty Ridge, LLC.
09-1195 2009
Res.    10-7-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Duke Realty
09-1196 2009   Corporation.
Res.    10-21- Waiving the bidding process and utilizing the state purchasing pricing to
09-1197 2009   purchase three one-ton Ford F550 trucks through Landmark Ford.
Res.    10-21- Waiving the bidding process and utilizing the state purchasing pricing and
09-1198 2009   purchasing three dump bodies, three hydraulic systems, three snow plows and one
               salt spreader from Monroe Truck Equipment.
Res.    11-4-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Misty Ridge, LLC.
09-1205 2009
Res.    11-4-  Waiving the bidding process and authorizing a contract with Motorola, Inc.
09-1206 2009
Res.    11-18- Authorizing a contract with Martin Whalen Office Solutions, Inc.
09-1208 2009
Res.    11-18- Awarding a contract to Robinson Engineering, Ltd.
09-1211 2009
Res.    11-18- Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with High Road Bible Church.
09-1212 2009
Res.    11-18- Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with ERS of Illinois.
09-1214 2009
Res.    12-2-  Waiving bidding process and authorizing a contract with Express Signs.
09-1215 2009
Res.    12-16- Awarding a contract to Steve Spiess Construction, Inc.
09-1217 2009
Res.    1-6-   Awarding a contract with Telcom Innovations Group.
09-1218 2010
Res.    1-6-   Accepting bid from Maxim Construction Corporation.
09-1220 2010
Res.    1-20-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an economic incentive agreement
09-1219 2010   with Rubloff Romeoville, LLC.
Res.    1-20-  Entering into a contract with Comcast.
10-1221 2010
Res.    1-20-  Entering into a contract with Commonwealth Edison.
10-1222 2010
Res.    1-20-  Authorizing the execution of a traffic ordinance enforcement agreement for
10-1223 2010   Grand Haven Community Property.
Res.    1-20-  Authorizing an agreement between the village and Kane, McKenna & Associates.
10-1224 2010
Res.    2-3-   Executing a consulting agreement with Ice Miller, LLP.
09-1204 2010
Res.    2-17-  Entering into a contract with Cargill Salt.
10-1226 2010
Res.    2-17-  Entering into a contract with Sound, Inc.
10-1228 2010
Res.    3-3-   Awarding a contract to Hitchcock Design Group.
10-1231 2010
Res.    3-3-   Approving an agreement between Romeoville Pony League Baseball and the
10-1232 2010   Recreation Department.
Res.    3-3-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Lockport
10-1233 2010   Township Road District.
Res.    3-17-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with PDV Midwest Refining,
10-1236 2010   LLC.
Res.    3-17-  Amending contract with Comcast Businesses.
10-1239 2010
Res.    3-17-  Entering into a contract with Call One.
10-1240 2010
        4-7-   Approving Northern Will County Joint Action Intergovernmental Agreement by and
10-0850 2010   among the Villages of Bolingbrook, Plainfield, Homer Glen, Woodridge and
               Romeoville.
Res.    4-7-   Authorizing the execution of an employment agreement with Andrew J. Barto.
10-1242 2010
Res.    4-7-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Township
10-1246 2010   of DuPage.
Res.    4-7-   Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with ASCAP.
10-1249 2010
Res.    4-7-   Awarding the municipal furniture package to BOS.
10-1250 2010
Res.    4-7-   Awarding the municipal furniture package to Henricksen.
10-1251 2010
Res.    4-7-   Awarding contract to Meade Electric Company, Inc.
10-1252 2010
Res.    4-7-   Approving proposal from Abbey Paving.
10-1254 2010
Res.    4-21-  Approving an agreement between Premier Concessions, Inc. and the Recreation
10-1259 2010   Department.
Res.    5-5-   Approving purchase of two squad cars through Sutton Ford.
10-1261 2010
Res.    5-5-   Executing an agreement between the village and Joe Ardovitch.
10-1269 2010
Res.    5-5-   Executing a contract with Whalen Office Solutions, Inc.
10-1270 2010
Res.    5-5-   Executing a three-year contract with New World Systems Corporation.
10-1271 2010
Res.    5-19-  Awarding contract to Genco Industries, Inc.
10-1277 2010
Res.    5-19-  Entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
10-1278 2010
Res.    5-19-  Executing an intergovernmental agreement with Lockport Township Park District.
10-1279 2010
Res.    5-19-  Executing a contract with IEG, Inc.
10-1280 2010
Res.    5-19-  Authorizing the execution of a gas use tax collection agreement.
10-1281 2010
10-0866 6-9-   Executing a redevelopment agreement for 1101 N. Independence Boulevard.
        2010
Res.    6-9-   Awarding contract to Globe Construction, Inc.
10-1283 2010
Res.    6-9-   Authorizing contract with Exelon Energy Company.
10-1284 2010
Res.    6-9-   Amending existing contract with Rochelle Printing Company.
10-1285 2010
Res.    6-9-   Executing a highway authority agreement with the Premcor Refining Group.
10-1286 2010
Res.    6-9-   Authorizing the execution of a traffic ordinance enforcement agreement with
10-1293 2010   Romeobuild, LLC.
Res.    6-9-   Awarding a contract to Denler, Inc.
10-1295 2010
Res.    6-9-   Awarding a contract to PSA Dewberry.
10-1296 2010
Res.    6-9-   Approving contract with James D. Fiala Paving Co.
10-1297 2010
Res.    6-9-   Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Community Christian
10-1298 2010   Church.
Res.    7-7-   Entering into a contract with Continental Farms, Inc.
10-1282 2010
Res.    7-7-   Entering into a contract with Robinette Demolition.
10-1300 2010
Res.    7-7-   Executing a contract with C.H. Johnson Consulting, Inc.
10-1301 2010
Res.    7-7-   Accepting bid from Flexible Pavement, Inc.
10-1302 2010
Res.    7-21-  Accepting a bid and entering into a contract with The Kenneth Company.
10-1303 2010
10-0873 8-4-   Adopting successor collective bargaining agreement between the village and the
        2010   Metropolitan Alliance of Police (Romeoville Chapter).
Res.    8-4-   Waiving bid process and accepting proposal from Steve Spiess Construction, Inc.
10-1310 2010
Res.    8-4-   Waiving bid process and accepting proposal from J.S. Alberico Construction Co.
10-1311 2010
Res.    8-4-   Entering into a contract with Hitchcock Design Group.
10-1314 2010
Res.    8-4-   Waiving bid process and authorizing an agreement with Leopardo Construction.
10-1315 2010
Res.    8-18-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county.
10-1316 2010
Res.    8-18-  Authorizing a contract with Hitchcock Design Group.
10-1317 2010
Res.    9-1-   Authorizing the Village Manager to enter into an agreement with Assurance.
10-1321 2010
Res.    9-15-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal from Neumann Company
10-1323 2010   Contractors.
Res.    9-15-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal from Neumann Company
10-1324 2010   Contractors.
Res.    9-15-  Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement with AT&T.
10-1327 2010
Res.    9-15-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to a development agreement with Bible
10-1328 2010   Baptist Church.
Res.    9-15-  Authorizing the execution of a traffic ordinance enforcement agreement with the
10-1330 2010   owners of the St. Andrew the Apostle Parish Church parking lot property.
Res.    9-15-  Confirming the termination of a construction contract with Continental
10-1331 2010   Construction Co., Inc. and waiving the bid process and authorizing a contract
               with George’s Landscaping, Inc.
Res.    9-15-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with PMM3K Enterprises,
10-1332 2010   LLC and ATG Trust Company.
Res.    10-6-  Utilizing the state bid pricing for the purchase of bulk road salt through
10-1333 2010   Cargill, Inc.
Res.    10-6-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement with White Fence Farm, Inc.
10-1334 2010
Res.    10-6-  Approving bid from Orange Crush, LLC.
10-1339 2010
Res.    10-6-  Approving bid from Globe Construction, Inc.
10-1340 2010
10-0880 10-20- Authorizing an amendment to a redevelopment agreement.
        2010
10-0881 10-20- Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with Steve Spandonidis.
        2010
Res.    10-20- Authorizing the execution of an amendment to a development agreement with Lewis
10-1343 2010   University.
Res.    10-20- Amending Res. 10-1315 and authorizing payment to Leopardo Construction.
10-1344 2010
Res.    11-3-  Authorizing an agreement with Saint Andrews.
10-1346 2010
Res.    11-3-  Entering into an agreement with Musco Lighting.
10-1347 2010
Res.    1-5-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Ameriflex.
11-1363 2011
Res.    1-5-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Joliet
11-1364 2011   Regional Port District.
Res.    1-19-  Authorizing the application for and execution of a technical assistance
11-1365 2011   agreement with the Regional Transportation Authority (RTA).
Res.    1-19-  Authorizing an alarm monitoring services agreement with ADT Security Services,
11-1366 2011   Inc.
Res.    1-19-  Awards the proposal for the MAKO SCBA Air Compressor to Air One Equipment, Inc.
11-1367 2011
Res.    2-9-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Meade Electric.
11-1368 2011
Res.    2-9-   Waiving the bid process and utilizing the state bid purchasing program for the
11-1370 2011   purchase of equipment with Monroe Dump Body.
Res.    2-9-   Entering into a contract with Commonwealth Edison.
11-1371 2011
Res.    3-2-   Waiving the bid process and approves purchase through Sutton Ford.
11-1379 2011
Res.    3-2-   Waiving the bid process and purchasing equipment through distributors Car
11-1380 2011   Reflections and Chicago Communications.
Res.    3-2-   Waiving the bid process and purchasing equipment through Sutton Ford.
11-1381 2011
Res.    3-2-   Waiving the bid process and purchasing equipment through distributors Ray
11-1382 2011   O’Herron, StopTech, Car Reflections, Chicago Communications and through Kustom
               Signals.
Res.    3-2-   Authorizing a recapture agreement with Air-Web, LLC.
11-1383 2011
Res.    3-2-   Awarding a contract to National Power Rodding Corporation.
11-1388 2011
Res.    3-2-   Awarding a contract to Matthew Paving, Inc.
11-1389 2011
Res.    3-2-   Awarding a contract to Insituform Technologies USA, Inc.
11-1390 2011
Res.    3-16-  Waiving the bid process and awarding a contract with J.W. Turf.
11-1392 2011
Res.    3-16-  Waiving the bid process and awarding a contract with McCann Industries.
11-1393 2011
Res.    3-16-  Waiving the bid process and awarding a contract to purchase equipment.
11-1394 2011
Res.    3-16-  Waiving the bid process and awarding a one-year contract to Lumina, Inc.
11-1395 2011
Res.    4-6-   Approving an agreement between Premier Concessions, Inc. and the Village
11-1402 2011   Recreation Department.
Res.    4-6-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental redevelopment agreement with
11-1403 2011   the Des Plaines Valley Public Library District.
Res.    4-6-   Waiving the bid process and accepting a contract with George’s Landscaping,
11-1405 2011   Inc.
Res.    4-6-   Awarding a contract to Meade Electric Company, Inc. for the Street Lighting
11-1407 2011   Maintenance 2011/2012 program.
Res.    4-6-   Authorizing a development agreement with PMM3K Enterprises, LLC.
11-1409 2011
Res.    4-6-   Authorizing a contract with The Fields on Caton Farm.
11-1411 2011
11-0906 4-20-  Adopting a collective bargaining agreement between the village and the
        2011   Romeoville Professional Fire Fighters Union, I.A.F.F. Local #4237.
Res.    4-20-  Waiving the bids and authorizing a contract with George’s Landscaping, Inc.
11-1413 2011
Res.    4-20-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Globe Construction,
11-1416 2011   Inc.
Res.    4-20-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
11-1417 2011
Res.    5-18-  Waiving the bid process and accepting proposal from The Kenneth Company.
11-1421 2011
Res.    5-18-  Awarding the Municipal Complex parking lot addition to P.T. Ferro Construction
11-1422 2011   Co.
Res.    5-18-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county.
11-1423 2011
Res.    5-18-  Waiving the bid process and utilizing the State Purchasing Program to purchase
11-1424 2011   a vehicle through Landmark Ford.
Res.    6-1-   Authorizing a memorandum of agreement with United States Coast Guard, United
11-1425 2011   States Army Corps of Engineers, Lemont Fire Protection District.
Res.    6-1-   Waiving bids and authorizing the execution of a contract with CDW-G.
11-1426 2011
Res.    6-1-   Authorizing the execution of a traffic ordinance enforcement agreement with
11-1427 2011   Weber Venture, LLC.
Res.    6-15-  Awarding a contract to Denler, Inc. for the Roadway Crack Sealing 2011 project.
11-1428 2011
Res.    6-15-  Amendment to an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Bolingbrook.
11-1429 2011
Res.    6-15-  Authorizing the execution of a traffic ordinance enforcement agreement with the
11-1430 2011   owner(s) of the Speedway, LLC property.
Res.    7-6-   Accepting a proposal and entering into a contract with Coca-Cola Bottling
11-1431 2011   Company of Chicago.
Res.    7-6-   Authorizing a redevelopment agreement with Mickey’s Tire & Service, Inc.
11-1432 2011
Res.    7-6-   Waiving the bid process and approving the proposal submitted by George’s
11-1433 2011   Landscaping, Inc.
Res.    7-6-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
11-1434 2011
Res.    7-6-   Entering into a contract with Hitchcock Design Group.
11-1435 2011
Res.    7-6-   Entering into a contract with PSA-Dewberry.
11-1436 2011
Res.    7-6-   Amending Res. 11-1413 authorizing a change order to contract with George’s
11-1441 2011   Landscaping, Inc.
Res.    7-20-  Authorizing an intergovernmental and boundary line agreement between the
11-1444 2011   village and the Village of Plainfield.
Res.    7-20-  Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement with Sikich, LLP.
11-1445 2011
Res.    8-3-   Waiving the bid process and enter into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
11-1452 2011
Res.    8-3-   Waiving the bidding requirements and enter into a contract with Northwest Cedar
11-1453 2011   Products.
Res.    8-17-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Neumann Company
11-1455 2011   Contractors, Inc.
Res.    9-7-   Waiving public bidding requirements and entering into a contract with U.S.
11-1448 2011   Digital Designs.
Res.    9-7-   Authorizing the execution of an amendment to a development agreement with Misty
11-1459 2011   Ridge, LLC.
Res.    9-7-   Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with JBM Golf Properties, LLC.
11-1460 2011
Res.    10-5-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Scannell Development
11-1462 2011   Corporation.
Res.    10-19- Authorizing the village to enter into a professional services and audit
11-1468 2011   agreement with Spyglass Group, Inc.
Res.    10-19- Waiving the bidding requirements and entering into a contract with Northwest
11-1470 2011   Cedar Products.
Res.    11-2-  Utilizing the state bid pricing for the purchase of bulk road salt through
11-1461 2011   Cargill, Inc.
Res.    11-2-  Authorizing the execution of a third amendment to a development agreement with
11-1471 2011   Misty Ridge, LLC.
Res.    11-16- Amending Res. 11-1453 authorizing a contract with Northwest Cedar.
11-1473 2011
Res.    11-16- Waiving the bidding process and authorizing expenditure for payment to
11-1474 2011   Equipment Management Company of Channahon.
Res.    12-7-  Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement and release with Playpower
11-1476 2011   LT Farmington, Inc.
        12-21- Approving Northern Will County Joint Action Intergovernmental Agreement by and
11-0955 2011   among the Villages of Bolingbrook, Homer Glen, Woodridge, Lemont and
               Romeoville.
Res.    12-21- Waiving the bidding process and approving the purchase of five Motorola APX7000
11-1478 2011   800mz portable radio units from Motorola.
Res.    12-21- Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with American Stair
11-1480 2011   Corporation.
Res.    12-21- Waiving the bid process and utilizing the Suburban Purchasing Cooperative Joint
11-1481 2011   Purchasing Program with the County Governmental League for the purchase of
               vehicles from Currie Motors.
Res.    12-21- Waiving the bidding requirements and purchasing one TR320 Compact Track Loader
11-1482 2011   from McCann Equipment.
Res.    12-21- Approving settlement agreement in Airport & Weber, LLC v. Village of Romeoville
11-1484 2011   et al., no. 07MR876 and authorizing Village Manager to execute the same on
               behalf of the village.
Res.    1-18-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Cargill Salt.
12-1486 2012
Res.    2-15-  Waiving public bidding requirements and entering into a contract with Lake
12-1490 2012   Assault Boats of Superior Wisconsin.
Res.    2-15-  Authorizing the execution of a communication agreement with Lewis University.
12-1491 2012
Res.    2-15-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with V3 Engineering.
12-1492 2012
Res.    3-7-   Authorizing the approval and ratification of a 12- month contract with Exelon
12-1494 2012   Energy Company.
Res.    3-7-   Authorizing the execution of a contract for Cartegraph Systems, Inc.
12-1496 2012
Res.    3-7-   Authorizing the execution of a release and settlement agreement with VK
12-1497 2012   Pinnacle Drive, LLC and Firstmerit Bank N.A.
Res.    3-21-  Executing a contract with Martin Whalen Office Solutions, Inc.
12-1500 2012
Res.    3-21-  Waiving the bidding requirements and utilizing the suburban purchasing
12-1501 2012   cooperative joint purchasing program to purchase vehicles from Currie Motors.
        4-4-   Adopting successor collective bargaining agreements between the village and The
12-0976 2012   American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31, AFL-
               CIO for the public works unit and the clerical unit.
Res.    4-4-   Waiving the bidding process and approving the purchase of equipment from
12-1502 2012   Motorola.
Res.    4-4-   Waiving the bidding process and approving the purchase of equipment from
12-1505 2012   Kustom.
Res.    4-4-   Authorizing the execution of a development agreement amendment with Scannell
12-1508 2012   Development Company.
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the bid process and purchasing equipment through Ray O’Herron,
12-1509 2012   StopTech, Car Reflections, Chicago Communications, Kustom Signals and CDS
               Office Technologies.
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the bid process and purchasing a vehicle from Sutton Ford.
12-1510 2012
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the bid process and purchasing a vehicle from Green Chevrolet, Inc.
12-1511 2012
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
12-1514 2012
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with DiGioia Brothers
12-1516 2012   Construction Company.
Res.    4-18-  Adopting an intergovernmental agreement forming the Will Electric Aggregation
12-1517 2012   Group.
Res.    4-18-  Approving an agreement between Premier Concessions, Inc. and the Village
12-1518 2012   Recreation Department.
Res.    4-18-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement amendment with KeHE
12-1519 2012   Distributors, LLC.
Res.    4-18-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the village
12-1521 2012   and the Board of Education of Valley View Community Unit School District 365 U.
        5-2-   Authorizing an intergovernmental cooperation agreement to provide for the joint
12-0985 2012   issuance of mortgage credit certificates to aid in providing an adequate supply
               of residential housing.
Res.    5-2-   Waiving bidding process and entering into contracts with Flexible Pavement,
12-1524 2012   Inc. and Insituform Technologies USA, Inc.
Res.    5-2-   Approving an amusement contract with All Around Amusement, Inc.
12-1527 2012
Res.    5-16-  Waiving bid process and utilizing the Illinois Association of County Board
12-1529 2012   Members and Commissioners Contract #10-LT00777-A for purchase of equipment from
               J.W. Turf, Inc.
Res.    5-16-  Entering into a contract with Hitchcock Design Group.
12-1532 2012
Res.    6-6-   Waiving bid requirements and awarding a one-year contract to Lumina, Inc.
12-1534 2012
Res.    6-6-   Waiving bid requirements and purchasing equipment from McCann Equipment.
12-1535 2012
Res.    6-20-  Awarding a contract to Denler, Inc.
12-1537 2012
Res.    6-20-  Waiving bid process and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
12-1538 2012
Res.    6-20-  Waiving bid process and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
12-1539 2012
Res.    6-20-  Awarding a contract to Insituform Technologies USA, Inc.
12-1540 2012
Res.    6-20-  Awarding a contract to Kim Construction Company, Inc.
12-1541 2012
Res.    6-20-  Authorizing the execution of a development and settlement agreement with
12-1542 2012   Material Service Corporation.
Res.    7-11-  Entering into an agreement between the village and Will County 911 ETSB.
12-1545 2012
Res.    7-11-  Waiving bid process and purchasing equipment from Standard Equipment.
12-1546 2012
Res.    7-11-  Waiving public bidding requirement and purchasing equipment from Global
12-1547 2012   Emergency Products of Aurora, Illinois.
Res.    7-11-  Approving a contract with Cardno Entrix.
12-1552 2012
Res.    7-18-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Sanctuary Church.
12-1544 2012
Res.    7-18-  Authorizing an execution of an intergovernmental agreement with Valley View
12-1553 2012   School District.
Res.    7-18-  Waiving the bidding process and approving the proposal submitted by George’s
12-1555 2012   Landscaping, Inc. and Musco Sports Lighting, LLC.
Res.    7-18-  Entering into an exclusive developers agreement with Harbour Contractors, Inc.
12-1556 2012
Res.    8-1-   Waiving bidding requirements and purchasing equipment from Currie Motors and
12-1557 2012   Monroe Truck Equipment.
Res.    8-1-   Entering into a contract with Dewberry Architects.
12-1559 2012
Res.    8-1-   Executing an agreement with Edward Hospital.
12-1560 2012
Res.    8-1-   Executing an agreement with Edward Hospital.
12-1561 2012
Res.    8-1-   Executing an agreement with Edward Hospital.
12-1562 2012
Res.    8-1-   Executing a contract for the lease purchase agreement with PNC Equipment
12-1564 2012   Finance.
Res.    9-1-   Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement with Nomanbhoy Family, Ltd.
12-1581 2012   Partners.
Res.    9-5-   Waiving the bidding process and entering into contracts with George’s
12-1565 2012   Landscaping, Nu Toys and Cunningham Recreation.
Res.    9-5-   Waiving bidding requirements and utilizing the state bid purchasing program to
12-1570 2012   purchase equipment from Prairie International and Monroe Truck Equipment.
Res.    9-5-   Waiving the bid process and purchasing equipment from EJ Equipment.
12-1571 2012
Res.    9-5-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Davey Tree Services.
12-1572 2012
Res.    9-5-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Meade Electric.
12-1573 2012
Res.    9-5-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with George’s Landscaping,
12-1574 2012   Inc.
Res.    9-5-   Waiving the bid process and extending the current contract with Insituform
12-1575 2012   Technologies.
Res.    9-5-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
12-1576 2012
Res.    9-5-   Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement with ASIC.
12-1579 2012
Res.    9-5-   Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with LaSalle Bank NA Trust no.
12-1580 2012   55.
Res.    9-19-  Awarding contract to Gallagher Asphalt of Thornton.
12-1582 2012
Res.    9-19-  Waiving the formal bidding process and awarding contract to Steve Spiess
12-1585 2012   Construction, Inc. and Metropolitan Industries, Inc.
12-1008 9-19-  Amending an economic development agreement with Air-Web, LLC.
        2012
Res.    10-2-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
12-1589 2012
Res.    10-2-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Flexible Pavement,
12-1590 2012   Inc.
12-1015 10-17- Authorizing an economic development agreement with Sam’s West, Inc.
        2012
Res.    10-17- Authorizing the execution of a contract with Harbour Contractors.
12-1593 2012
Res.    11-7-  Approving a construction engineering services agreement for federal
12-1595 2012   participation between the village and Robinson Engineering, Ltd.
Res.    11-7-  Approving a local agency agreement for federal participation between IDOT and
12-1596 2012   the village.
Res.    11-7-  Waiving the bids and authorizing purchase of equipment from Video Service
12-1597 2012   America.
Res.    11-7-  Waiving the bids and entering into a contract with Robinette Demolition, Inc.
12-1599 2012
Res.    11-7-  Waiving the bids and entering into a contract with Robinette Demolition, Inc.
12-1600 2012
Res.    11-7-  Entering into a contract with Dewberry Architects.
12-1601 2012
               Authorizing settlement agreement and release to resolve all issues involving
Res.    11-7-  the village in certain litigation presently pending between the village and HOH
12-1602 2012   Water Technology; A&H Mechanical, Inc.; Elmore’s HVAC, Inc.; Mechanical
               Concepts of Illinois, Inc.; and the North American Speciality Insurance
               Company.
Res.    12-5-  Utilizing state bid contract and approving purchase of bulk road salt from
12-1603 2012   Morton Salt.
Res.    12-5-  Executing contract for lease purchase agreement with Fifth Third Bank.
12-1609 2012
Res.    12-19- Waiving bids and awarding a three-year contract to Kelmscott Communications.
12-1611 2012
Res.    12-19- Waiving bids and accepting a contract with George’s Landscaping, Inc.
12-1612 2012
Res.    12-19- Entering into a contract with Hitchcock Design Group.
12-1613 2012
13-1035 1-2-   Authorizing an amendment to the Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone
        2013   intergovernmental agreement.
Res.    1-16-  Executing a contract for the lease purchase agreement with Fifth Third Bank.
13-1615 2013
-       2-6-   Intergovernmental agreement between the village and the county.
        2013
Res.    2-6-   Authorizing the execution of a memorandum of understanding/mutual aid agreement
13-1619 2013   and an agreement for the provision of police service and equipment resources
               (Will County Sheriff Special Operations Group).
Res.    2-6-   Authorizing the execution of a mutual release and settlement agreement with
13-1621 2013   Continental Construction Company, Inc. and Tom Andrews.
Res.    2-20-  Waiving bids and utilizing the state bid contract for the purchase of a vehicle
13-1622 2013   from Bob Ridings Ford.
Res.    2-20-  Waiving bids and utilizing the state bid contract for the purchase of a vehicle
13-1623 2013   from Bob Ridings Ford.
Res.    2-20-  Execution of an agreement of indemnity with Mechanical Concepts, Inc.
13-1628 2013
13-1039 2-20-  Adopting successor collective bargaining agreement between the village and
        2013   Metropolitan Alliance of Police (Romeoville Chapter).
Res.    3-6-   Waiving bids and entering into a contract with North American Salt Company.
13-1629 2013
Res.    3-20-  Authorizing the execution of a recreation center use agreement with St. Andrew
13-1634 2013   the Apostle Parish Church.
Res.    3-20-  Authorizing the approval and ratification of a 12- month contract with
13-1636 2013   Constellation New Energy, Inc.
Res.    3-20-  Authorizing the execution of an educational partnership agreement with
13-1639 2013   Rasmussen College.
Res.    3-20-  Waiving bids and accepting proposal from MT2, LLC.
13-1640 2013
Res.    4-3-   Waiving bids and accepting proposal from Orange Crush, LLC.
13-1641 2013
Res.    4-3-   Waiving bids and entering into a contract with V3 Construction Group, Ltd.
13-1642 2013
Res.    4-3-   Awarding a contract to Meade Electric Company, Inc.
13-1643 2013
Res.    4-17-  Approving a concession stand license agreement between Premier Concessions,
13-1644 2013   Inc. and the village.
Res.    5-1-   Authorizing the participation in the Northern Illinois Municipal Electric
13-1651 2013   Cooperative (NIMEC) and approving a contract with Constellation New Energy,
               Inc.
Res.    5-15-  Authorizing the resolution of a memorandum of understanding between the village
13-1653 2013   and the Village of Woodridge.
Res.    5-15-  Waiving bids and utilizing the state bid contract for the purchase of a vehicle
13-1656 2013   from Prairie International Trucks.
Res.    5-15-  Waiving bids and entering into a contract with Metropolitan Industries.
13-1659 2013
Res.    5-15-  Waiving bids and entering into a contract with Globe Construction.
13-1660 2013
Res.    5-15-  Awarding a contract to Flexible Pavement, Inc.
13-1662 2013
Res.    6-5-   Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with the Chicago Transit Authority.
13-1665 2013
Res.    6-5-   Authorizing the execution of a law enforcement agency agreement with Lewis
13-1666 2013   University.
Res.    6-5-   Waiving bids and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
13-1667 2013
Res.    6-5-   Authorizing the acceptance of and the execution of a five-year contract with
13-1668 2013   New World Systems Corporation.
Res.    6-5-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Outdoor Impact, LLC.
13-1669 2013
Res.    6-5-   Waiving bids and utilizing the state bid contract for the purchase of vehicles
13-1670 2013   from Bob Ridings Ford.
Res.    6-5-   Authorizing the approval and ratification of a 14- month contract with
13-1672 2013   Constellation NewEnergy, Inc.
Res.    6-5-   Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement and release.
13-1673 2013
Res.    6-5-   Waiving bids and executing a contract with Metalmaster Roofmaster, Inc.
13-1674 2013
Res.    6-5-   Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement with AT&T.
13-1675 2013
Res.    6-17-  Waiving bids and awarding a one-year contract to Lumina, Inc.
13-1676 2013
Res.    6-17-  Waiving bids and entering into a contract with Wick Building Systems, Inc.
13-1677 2013
13-1047 6-17-  Approving an amendment to the Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone
        2013   intergovernmental agreement.
Res.    7-2-   Waiving bids and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
13-1680 2013
Res.    7-17-  Authorizing a participation agreement with Government Payment Service, Inc.
13-1681 2013
Res.    8-7-   Waiving bids and authorizing a three year agreement with Environmental Systems
13-1686 2013   Research (ESRI).
Res.    8-7-   Entering into a contract with Tressler, LLP.
13-1691 2013
Res.    8-7-   Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement with Bond Safeguard
13-1694 2013   Insurance Company.
Res.    8-21-  Waiving bids and authorizing a purchase agreement with Best Bus Sales/Illinois
13-1682 2013   Bus Sales.
Res.    8-21-  Waiving bids and awarding a contract to Melrose Pyrotechnics, Inc.
13-1696 2013
Res.    8-21-  Awarding contract to Denler, Inc.
13-1699 2013
Res.    9-4-   Approving restated articles of agreement for the Tri County Special Recreation
13-1701 2013   Association (SRA).
Res.    9-18-  Waiving bids and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
13-1705 2013
Res.    10-9-  Authorizing the execution of an employment agreement with Stephen J. Gulden to
13-1714 2013   serve as Village Manager.
Res.    10-9-  Authorizing the execution of a sponsor agreement with Sam’s West, Inc.
13-1715 2013
Res.    10-9-  Authorizing a contract with Redox Tech, LLC.
13-1716 2013
Res.    10-9-  Authorizing the execution of a severance agreement and release with Daniel R.
13-1717 2013   Bromberek.
Res.    10-9-  Authorizing the village to enter into a contract with Kane, McKenna and
13-1718 2013   Associates for the Lambrecht TIF.
Res.    10-16- Waiving the bidding process and awarding a one- year contract to Melrose
13-1713 2013   Pyrotechnics, Inc.
Res.    10-16- Entering into a contract with Tressler, LLP.
13-1719 2013
Res.    10-16- Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from Neumann Company
13-1720 2013   Contractors, Inc.
Res.    10-16- Authorizing an agreement with Bockyn, LLC.
13-1721 2013
Res.    11-20- Waiving the bidding process and purchasing squad car equipment through
13-1733 2013   distributors Ray O’Herron, Car Reflections, Chicago Communications, Kustom
               Signals and Truck Vault.
Res.    11-20- Entering into a contract with Performance Institute.
13-1740 2013
Res.    11-20- Waiving public bidding requirements and entering into an agreement with Zoll
13-1741 2013   Medical Corporation.
Res.    12-4-  Waiving the bidding process and executing an agreement known as a lease
13-1743 2013   agreement with U.S. Bank.
Res.    12-4-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Clinton Auto Auction.
13-1744 2013
Res.    12-18- Authorizing a lease agreement with Direct Fitness Solutions and Allstate
13-1742 2013   Capital.
Res.    12-18- Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with Duke Realty Limited
13-1752 2013   Partnership.
Res.    12-18- Authorizing the execution of a vending machine location agreement with Lean
13-1753 2013   Green Healthy Vending, Inc.
Res.    12-18- Waiving the bidding process and entering into a contract with Martin Cement
13-1754 2013   Company.
Res.    12-18- Waiving the bidding process and purchasing equipment from McCann Industries.
13-1755 2013
Res.    12-18- Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement with AT&T.
13-1757 2013
Res.    12-18- Authorizing the execution of a utilities agreement with Network Strategy, LLC
13-1760 2013   and Seefried Industrial Properties, Inc.
Res.    12-18- Authorizing a facility management agreement with Indoor Sports Management
13-1761 2013   Group, LLC.
14-1087 1-15-  Authorizing an intergovernmental and boundary line agreement between the
        2014   village and the City of Lockport.
Res.    1-15-  Authorizing a development agreement with BG Investments, LLC.
13-1758 2014
Res.    1-15-  Approving an amusements contract with All Around Amusement, Inc.
14-1762 2014
Res.    1-15-  Renewal of the state bid contract with Morton Salt, Inc.
14-1764 2014
Res.    1-15-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract for the Lake Strimi Well
14-1765 2014   House UV Disinfection Unit.
Res.    1-15-  Authorizing the participation in the NIMEC and authorizing the Village Manager
14-1766 2014   to approve contracts with the lowest cost electricity provider.
Res.    1-15-  Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with Magid Glove and Safety
14-1767 2014   Manufacturing Company, LLC.
Res.    2-5-   Waiving the bidding process and approving the purchase of a vehicle from Sutton
14-1769 2014   Ford.
Res.    2-5-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing police vehicle equipment through
14-1770 2014   distributors Ray O’Herron, Car Reflections and Chicago Communications.
Res.    2-5-   Confirming an assignment of a development agreement with Misty Ridge, LLC to
14-1771 2014   Teton Development, LLC.
Res.    2-5-   Waiving the bidding process and entering into an agreement with Connor Sports.
14-1774 2014
Res.    2-5-   Authorizing a redevelopment agreement with HB Uptown, LLC.
14-1776 2014
Res.    2-19-  Authorizing a development agreement with Citgo Petroleum Company and PDV
14-1778 2014   Midwest Refining Company.
Res.    2-19-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting proposals of North American Salt Co.
14-1779 2014   and Cargill Salt.
Res.    2-19-  Waiving the bidding process and executing an agreement with Haldeman-Homme.
14-1781 2014
Res.    2-19-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with Prologis, LP.
14-1782 2014
Res.    3-19-  Authorizing the execution of a grant management agreement with Adapt, LLC.
14-1784 2014
Res.    3-19-  Waiving the bidding process and executing an agreement with Waste Management.
14-1787 2014
Res.    4-2-   Waiving the bidding process and executing an agreement with Redox Tech, LLC.
14-1789 2014
Res.    4-2-   Authorizing a development agreement with KC Romeo, LLC and the Richard J.
14-1792 2014   Venegoni Trust as the developer and the Blackhawk Restaurant Group, LLC as the
               tenant.
Res.    4-16-  Waiving bidding process and entering into an agreement to purchase equipment
14-1798 2014   from Communications Direct.
Res.    4-16-  Waiving bidding process and entering into an agreement to purchase equipment
14-1799 2014   from AFC International.
Res.    4-16-  Waiving bidding requirements and utilizing state bid contract to purchase
14-1800 2014   vehicles from Bob Ridings Ford.
Res.    4-16-  Awarding contract to Meade Electric Company, Inc.
14-1801 2014
Res.    4-16-  Authorizing an execution of an agreement with Industrial Appraisal Company.
14-1802 2014
Res.    4-16-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement for the Will/Grundy Major Crimes
14-1805 2014   Task Force.
Res.    4-16-  Waiving bidding requirements and utilizing state bid contract to purchase nine
14-1806 2014   Panasonic Toughbooks.
Res.    5-7-   Waiving bidding requirements and purchasing vehicles from Tyson Jeep.
14-1812 2014
Res.    5-7-   Approving an agreement between QR F.I.T. Trail, LLC and the village.
14-1813 2014
Res.    5-7-   Executing a release and settlement agreement with James D. Fiala Paving, Inc.
14-1814 2014
Res.    5-7-   Waiving public bidding procedure and accepts proposal from J. Hassert
14-1815 2014   Landscaping, Inc.
Res.    5-7-   Authorizing an escrow agreement with Chicago Title and Trust Company and ARY
14-1817 2014   Romeoville IL Landlord, LLC.
Res.    5-7-   Waiving bidding requirements and utilizing state bid contract to purchase
14-1819 2014   vehicles from Rush Truck Centers.
Res.    5-7-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the City of
14-1820 2014   Crest Hill.
Res.    5-7-   Authorizing the execution of amendment to an agreement with Outdoor Impact,
14-1821 2014   LLC.
Res.    5-21-  Authorizing an agreement with CDW-G.
14-1827 2014
Res.    5-21-  Authorizing a contract with Globe Construction.
14-1831 2014
Res.    6-4-   Entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
14-1833 2014
Res.    6-4-   Authorizing a contract with Comcast.
14-1834 2014
Res.    6-18-  Authorizing a redevelopment agreement with Duke Realty Limited Partnership.
14-1837 2014
Res.    7-2-   Executing a license agreement with Material Service Corporation.
14-1839 2014
Res.    7-16-  Waiving bids and awarding a contract to Kim Construction Company, Inc.
14-1840 2014
Res.    7-16-  Waiving bids and awarding a contract with Continental Farms, Inc.
14-1841 2014
Res.    8-6-   Utilizing the state bid contract PSD #4017340 with Bob Ridings Ford and Monroe
14-1842 2014   Truck Equipment.
Res.    8-6-   Accepting a contract with George’s Landscaping, Inc.
14-1844 2014
Res.    8-6-   Accepting a contract with George’s Landscaping, Inc.
14-1845 2014
Res.    8-6-   Executing a right-of-way acquisition agreement with Dearborn Street Holdings,
14-1849 2014   LLC.
Res.    8-20-  Entering into a contract with Northwest Cedar Products.
14-1854 2014
Res.    8-20-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the City of
14-1855 2014   Crest Hill.
Res.    8-20-  Entering into a contract with Fiala Paving Company, Inc.
14-1856 2014
Res.    9-3-   Waiving bids and trading-in of used equipment and purchase of gymnastic
14-1861 2014   equipment from Midwest Gym Supply, Inc.
Res.    9-3-   Authorizing the village to enter into the agreement with GOVHR regarding the
14-1863 2014   village’s employee classification and compensation study.
Res.    9-3-   Awarding a contract to Insituform Technologies USA, Inc.
14-1864 2014
Res.    9-3-   Awarding a contract to Len Cox & Sons Excavating.
14-1865 2014
Res.    9-3-   Utilizing the state bid contract PSD #4017340 with Bob Ridings Ford and Monroe
14-1866 2014   Truck Equipment.
Res.    9-3-   Waiving bid process and accepting price quote from Vermeer-Illinois, Inc.
14-1867 2014
Res.    9-3-   Awarding a contract to Denler, Inc.
14-1869 2014
Res.    9-17-  Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with Material Service
14-1873 2014   Corporation.
Res.    10-1-  Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with William Ryan Homes,
14-1858 2014   Inc.
14-1142 10-1-  Authorizing an addendum to mutual aid box alarm system agreement.
        2014
Res.    10-1-  Waiving the bidding process and purchasing police vehicles from Sutton Ford.
14-1876 2014
Res.    10-1-  Execution of a development agreement with S Cubed Storage, LLC.
14-1880 2014
Res.    10-15- Entering into contract with iTouch Biometrics.
14-1882 2014
Res.    10-15- Execution of a development agreement with First Midwest Bank, Joliet, IL.
14-1883 2014
Res.    10-15- State bid contract with Morton Salt, Inc.
14-1884 2014
Res.    10-15- Waiving bidding requirements and utilizing state bid contract PSD #4017340,
14-1885 2014   with Monroe Truck Equipment.
Res.    11-5-  Awarding a one-year contract to Melrose Pyrotechnics, Inc.
14-1881 2014
Res.    11-5-  Accepting a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
14-1890 2014
Res.    11-5-  Entering into a contract with Thorne Electric.
14-1891 2014
Res.    11-5-  Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement with Quantum Foods, LLC.
14-1892 2014
Res.    11-5-  Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement with Wespark Master
14-1893 2014   Association.
Res.    11-5-  Entering into a contract with J. Hassert Landscaping.
14-1894 2014
Res.    11-5-  Entering into a contract with Steve Spiess Const, Inc.
14-1895 2014
Res.    11-19- Entering into a contract with Performance Institute, LLC.
14-1899 2014
Res.    12-3-  Authorizing a contract with Fire Recovery USA, LLC.
14-1902 2014
Res.    12-17- Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with Ashley Furniture Industries,
14-1904 2014   Inc.
14-1167 12-17- Adopting a new Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone intergovernmental
        2014   agreement.
Res.    1-7-   Waiving the bid process and purchasing one new police vehicle through Sutton
15-1907 2015   Ford.
Res.    1-7-   Waiving the bid process and accepting the bid from Traffic Control &
15-1908 2015   Protection, Inc. to purchase a Traffix Devices Scorpion TL3 Impact Attenuator
               with Arrow Board.
Res.    1-7-   Awarding a contract to Genco Industries, Inc.
15-1909 2015
Res.    1-7-   Authorizing a license agreement with MJ Electric, LLC.
15-1912 2015
Res.    1-21-  Waiving the bid requirements and utilizing the state bid contract for the
15-1913 2015   purchase of a vehicle from Bob Ridings Ford.
Res.    1-21-  Authorizing the execution of a naming rights and space lease agreement with
15-1914 2015   Edward Hospital.
Res.    2-4-   Authorizing the execution of a grant agreement with the State Department of
15-1916 2015   Natural Resources.
Res.    2-4-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Lockport
15-1917 2015   Township Park District.
Res.    2-4-   Waiving the bidding process and executing an agreement with Kronos.
15-1919 2015
Res.    2-4-   Amending a redevelopment agreement with Duke Realty Limited Partnership.
15-1920 2015
Res.    2-4-   Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from Fer-Pal
15-1921 2015   Construction USA, LLC.
Res.    2-18-  Waiving the bidding process and entering into a contract with Robinette
15-1924 2015   Demolition, Inc.
Res.    3-4-   Waiving the bidding process and entering into an agreement with South Water
15-1928 2015   Signs, LLC.
Res.    3-18-  Waiving the bidding process and purchasing a taser non-lethal stun gun from
15-1932 2015   Taser International.
Res.    3-18-  Approving the Lemont Refinery tax assessment settlement agreement.
15-1933 2015
Res.    3-18-  Waiving bids and contracting with Hire Safe, a division of Data Research
15-1934 2015   Network, Inc.
Res.    3-18-  Authorizing the execution of a law enforcement mutual aid agreement and the
15-1935 2015   existence and formation of the State Law Enforcement Alarm System by
               intergovernmental cooperation.
Res.    3-18-  Entering into an agreement with Comcast Corporation.
15-1936 2015
Res.    4-1-   Approving an agreement between the state and the village appropriating funds
15-1937 2015   for the Crossroads Parkway local agency functional overlay project.
Res.    4-1-   Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with Cooperative Sourcing I, LLC.
15-1938 2015
Res.    4-1-   Approving an agreement between the state and the village appropriating funds
15-1939 2015   for the Belmont Drive local agency functional overlay project.
Res.    4-1-   Waiving the bidding process and entering into a contract with Total Automation
15-1942 2015   Concepts, Inc.
Res.    4-1-   Awarding a contract to George’s Landscaping, Inc.
15-1943 2015
Res.    4-1-   Authorizing a development agreement with BG Investments, LLC.
15-1944 2015
15-1184 4-15-  Adopting a collective bargaining agreement between the village and the
        2015   Romeoville Professional Firefighters Union, I.A.F.F. Local #4237.
Res.    4-15-  Waiving public bidding requirements and contracting with Air One, Inc.
15-1946 2015
Res.    4-15-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal from Cargill Salt.
15-1947 2015
Res.    4-15-  Approving a professional fee agreement with Ducere, LLC.
15-1949 2015
Res.    4-15-  Waiving the bidding process and entering into a three year masters service
15-1951 2015   agreement with Paymentus.
Res.    5-6-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of
15-1954 2015   Bolingbrook.
Res.    5-6-   Authorizing the execution of a grant agreement with GAMA, LLC.
15-1955 2015
Res.    5-6-   Approving a license and hold harmless agreement with Opus Design Build, LLC.
15-1957 2015
Res.    5-6-   Waiving the bidding process and authorizing a contract with McCann Industries.
15-1960 2015
Res.    5-6-   Waiving the bidding process and authorizing a contract with Allscape
15-1961 2015   Contractors.
Res.    5-6-   Entering into an agreement with Dewberry Architects, Inc.
15-1962 2015
Res.    5-20-  Waiving bidding and authorizing a contract with BWM Global.
15-1966 2015
Res.    5-20-  Waiving bidding requirements and contracting with Larsen Marine.
15-1968 2015
Res.    6-3-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing a vehicle from Police Department
15-1964 2015   Systems and CDS Office Technologies.
Res.    6-3-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Will County and JBM Golf
15-1972 2015   Properties, LLC.
Res.    6-3-   Waiving the bid process and contracting with Vermeer-Illinois, Inc.
15-1973 2015
Res.    6-3-   Waiving the bid process and contracting with Crowther Roofing & Sheet Metal,
15-1974 2015   Inc.
Res.    6-3-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract for the FY15/16 concrete
15-1975 2015   repair program.
Res.    6-3-   Waiving the bid process and accepting the price quote from Standard Equipment
15-1976 2015   Company.
Res.    6-3-   Approving an agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
15-1977 2015
Res.    6-3-   Waiving the bidding process and entering into a contract with Civic Plus.
15-1978 2015
Res.    6-3-   Waiving the bid process and contracting with Interstate Emergency Vehicles,
15-1980 2015   Inc.
Res.    6-16-  Waiving the bids and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
15-1981 2015
Res.    7-1-   Waiving the bids and entering into a contract with Robinette Demolition, Inc.
15-1982 2015
Res.    7-1-   Authorizing a contract with Dewberry Architects.
15-1983 2015
Res.    7-1-   Authorizing a contract with Corporate Construction Services.
15-1984 2015
Res.    7-1-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
15-1991 2015
Res.    7-15-  Executing a supplemental agreement with VNA Health Care.
15-1999 2015
Res.    8-5-   Waiving the bidding process and purchasing vehicles through Sutton Ford.
15-2001 2015
Res.    8-5-   Executing a development agreement with Southcreek Industrial Holdings, LLC.
15-2002 2015
Res.    8-5-   Waiving the bid requirements and executing a contract with Neopost.
15-2004 2015
Res.    8-5-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Arborworks, LLC.
15-2005 2015
Res.    8-19-  Awarding a contract to Fer-Pal Construction USA LLC.
15-2007 2015
Res.    9-2-   Amending a contract with Fire Recovery USA, LLC.
15-2010 2015
Res.    9-2-   Accepting a contract with Clauss Brothers, Inc.
15-2012 2015
Res.    9-2-   Executing a contract with PNC Equipment Finance.
15-2014 2015
Res.    9-16-  Waiving public bidding requirements and entering into an agreement with
15-2017 2015   Interstate Emergency Vehicles, Inc.
Res.    9-16-  Authorizing the Village Manager to enter into certain contracts for the
15-2018 2015   construction of Fire Station no. 1.
Res.    10-5-  Authorizing a contract with Hitchcock Design Group and Robinson Engineering.
15-2021 2015
Res.    10-5-  Utilizing the state purchasing program and purchasing vehicles through Bob
15-2023 2015   Ridings.
Res.    10-5-  Participating in the state bid contract with Cargill Inc.
15-2026 2015
Res.    10-5-  Awarding a contract to Denler, Inc.
15-2028 2015
Res.    10-5-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Standard Equipment
15-2029 2015   Company.
Res.    10-21- Authorizing a redevelopment agreement with McDonald’s USA, LLC.
15-2030 2015
Res.    10-21- Waiving the bidding process and awarding contract to J.S. Alberico Co.
15-2031 2015
Res.    10-21- Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the village
15-2032 2015   and Lockport Township.
Res.    10-21- Approving a contract with Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg, LLP.
15-2033 2015
Res.    10-21- Waiving of bids and awarding a contract to Kelmscott Communications.
15-2035 2015
Res.    10-21- Waiving of bids and awarding a contract to Melrose Pyrotechnics, Inc.
15-2036 2015
15-1227 11-4-  Amendment to an economic incentive agreement with Steve Spandonidis.
        2015
Res.    11-4-  Authorizing a license agreement with HP Romeoville, LLC.
15-2038 2015
Res.    11-4-  Authorizing a development agreement with Romeo Gardens, LLC.
15-2039 2015
Res.    11-18- Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an economic incentive agreement
15-2044 2015   with JBM Golf Properties, LLC.
Res.    12-23- Authorizing an execution of a release and hold harmless agreement with RUBY-08-
15-2050 2015   ROMEOVILLE, LLC.
Res.    12-23- Authorizing an intergovernmental and development agreement with the Board of
15-2051 2015   Trustees of Community College District no. 525, Counties of Will, Grundy,
               Kendall, LaSalle, Kankakee, Livingston and Cook.
Res.    12-23- Accepting the execution of a contract with Martin Whalen/Xerox.
15-2052 2015
Res.    12-23- Authorizing an amendment to a development agreement with BG Investments, LLC.
15-2053 2015
Res.    1-20-  Amended agreement between the state and village appropriating funds for the
16-2054 2016   Belmont Drive local agency functional overlay project.
Res.    2-3-   Waiving public bidding requirements and purchasing vehicles from Tyson Jeep.
16-2055 2016
Res.    2-3-   Authorizing the execution of a release and hold harmless agreement with Misty
16-2056 2016   Ridge Community Association.
Res.    2-3-   Authorizing a development agreement with 615 Romeoville, LLC.
16-2057 2016
16-1261 2-17-  Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with Thomas Motors of Joliet, Inc.
        2016
Res.    2-17-  Waiving bidding and purchasing equipment from Police Department Systems, Ray
16-2059 2016   O’Herron, CDS, Car Reflections and Data 911.
Res.    2-17-  Authorizing the execution of an addendum to the Leangreen Healthy Vending, Inc.
16-2060 2016   location agreement.
Res.    2-17-  Authorizing the execution of an athletic court/field sponsorship agreement with
16-2061 2016   Thomas Motors of Joliet, Inc.
Res.    3-2-   Authorizing a development agreement with Veterans Parkway - Bolingbrook, LLC.
16-2063 2016
Res.    3-16-  Waiving the bidding requirements and contracting with Wright Automotive.
16-2068 2016
Res.    3-16-  Waiving the bidding requirements and contracting with Bob Ridings Fleet Sales.
16-2069 2016
Res.    3-16-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Chicago
16-2070 2016   Metropolitan Agency for Planning.
Res.    3-16-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with the County Sheriff.
16-2071 2016
Res.    3-16-  Waiving the formal bidding process and awarding construction contract to
16-2072 2016   Gallagher Asphalt.
Res.    4-6-   Waiving the bid process and contracting with Wick Buildings.
16-2081 2016
Res.    4-6-   Authorizing the execution of an educational alliance agreement with Rasmussen
16-2082 2016   College.
Res.    4-20-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with Dwight Fire Protection
16-2083 2016   District.
Res.    4-20-  Waiving bid process and accepting proposal from Cintas.
16-2085 2016
Res.    4-20-  Awarding a contract to Meade Electric Company, Inc.
16-2086 2016
Res.    4-20-  Waiving the bidding process and contracting with Police Department Systems, Ray
16-2087 2016   O’Herron, Kustom Signals, Car Reflections and Data 911.
16-1279 5-4-   Adopting successor collective bargaining agreement between the village and
        2016   Metropolitan Alliance of Police.
        5-4-   Adopting successor collective bargaining agreements between the village and the
16-1280 2016   American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31, AFL-
               CIO for the public works unit and the clerical unit.
Res.    5-4-   Awarding a contract to Tri-Tech Electric, Inc.
16-2092 2016
Res.    5-4-   Waiving the bid process and purchasing a backhoe from a case equipment dealer.
16-2093 2016
Res.    5-4-   Waiving the bid process and purchasing a skidsteer loader from a case equipment
16-2094 2016   dealer.
Res.    5-4-   Authorizing the execution of an advanced services agreement with Metro Fiber,
16-2096 2016   LLC, d/b/a Metronet.
Res.    5-4-   Waiving the bidding requirements and entering into a contract with J. Hassert
16-2098 2016   Landscaping.
Res.    5-18-  Waiving the public bidding process and authorizing a contract with LDV, Inc.
16-2102 2016
Res.    5-18-  Waiving the bid process and contracting with McCann Industries.
16-2104 2016
Res.    5-18-  Waiving the bid process and contracting with Monroe Equipment.
16-2109 2016
Res.    5-18-  Waiving the bid process and accepting a proposal from Compass Materials and
16-2110 2016   Cargill Salt.
Res.    5-18-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Globe Construction.
16-2111 2016
Res.    5-18-  Waiving the public bidding process and authorizing a contract with Braniff
16-2117 2016   Communications and Federal Signal.
Res.    6-8-   Waiving bids and authorizing a contract with BWM Global.
16-2123 2016
Res.    6-8-   Waiving the public bidding process and authorizing a contract with Robinette
16-2124 2016   Demolition Inc.
Res.    6-8-   Waiving the public bidding process and authorizing a contract with J. Hassert
16-2129 2016   Landscaping.
Res.    6-8-   Waiving the public bidding process and authorizing a contract with K-Five
16-2130 2016   Construction.
Res.    6-8-   Waiving the bidding process and authorizing a contract with Gallagher Asphalt
16-2131 2016   Corporation.
Res.    6-8-   Waiving the public bidding process and authorizing a contract with The PAL
16-2132 2016   Group.
Res.    7-6-   Waiving the bidding requirements and contracting with Murrow Brothers Ford Inc.
16-2139 2016   and Monroe Truck Equipment.
Res.    7-6-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement with National Cooperative Leasing.
16-2143 2016
Res.    7-6-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the village
16-2144 2016   and the county.
Res.    7-20-  Authorizing a contract with Sutton Ford, Miles Chevrolet, Police Department
16-2145 2016   Systems, Ragan Communications, Kustom Signals, Data 911, Ray O’Herron and Car
               Reflections.
Res.    7-20-  Awarding a contract to Steve Spiess Construction Co.
16-2146 2016
Res.    7-20-  Authorizing an agreement with Motorola.
16-2148 2016
Res.    7-20-  Intergovernmental agreement between the village and the Valley View School
16-2149 2016   District.
Res.    7-20-  Authorizing a contract with Total Automation Concepts, Inc.
16-2150 2016
Res.    7-20-  Approving a concession stand license agreement between Romeoville Youth
16-2151 2016   Football and Cheerleading and the Village Recreation Department.
Res.    7-20-  Authoring a licensing agreement with Multi-Bank Securities, Inc.
16-2152 2016
Res.    7-20-  Authorizing an agreement with The Howard E. Nyhart Company, Inc.
16-2153 2016
Res.    7-20-  Authorizing a development agreement with Pinnacle Drive Realignment-Aryzta,
16-2154 2016   LLC.
Res.    7-20-  Entering into a contract with Hassert Landscaping.
16-2157 2016
Res.    8-17-  Awarding a contract with Denler, Inc.
16-2160 2016
Res.    8-17-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of
16-2166 2016   Bolingbrook.
Res.    8-17-  Approving a sales tax sharing and development agreement with Metal Monkey
16-2168 2016   Brewing, LLC.
Res.    8-17-  Authorizing a development agreement with TD Romeoville, LLC.
16-2170 2016
Res.    8-17-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with the County Emergency Telephone
16-2171 2016   System Board - Mass Notification System.
Res.    9-7-   Approving the local agency agreement and construction engineering services
16-2180 2016   agreement.
Res.    9-7-   Approving a preapproval grading development agreement with Venture One Real
16-2188 2016   Estate, LLC.
16-1320 9-21-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an economic incentive agreement
        2016   with Thomas Motors of Joliet, Inc.
Res.    9-21-  Approving an agreement with Kane, McKenna and Associates.
16-2201 2016
Res.    10-5-  Authorizing a service agreement with Voiance Language Services, LLC.
16-2196 2016
Res.    10-18- Entering into a contract with Tressler LLP.
16-2215 2016
Res.    10-18- Executing an agreement with CDW-G.
16-2216 2016
Res.    10-18- Authorizing a contract with Southwater Signs.
16-2217 2016
Res.    10-18- Authorizing a contract with Vortex Commercial Flooring.
16-2218 2016
Res.    11-2-  Authorizing a contract with Cartegraph.
16-2118 2016
Res.    11-2-  Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with 1149 Frontage, LLC.
16-2222 2016
Res.    11-16- Authorizing a contract with Volunteer Plumbing.
16-2225 2016
Res.    11-16- Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with Valley View Community
16-2229 2016   Unit School District no. 365U.
Res.    11-16- Authorizing the execution of a settlement agreement with Flexible Pavement, RP,
16-2230 2016   Inc.
Res.    11-16- Authorizing the execution of an ordinance enforcement agreement with the Malibu
16-2231 2016   Bay Homeowners’ Association.
Res.    12-7-  Agreement with state and the village.
16-2236 2016
Res.    12-7-  Approving an agreement for the operation and maintenance of a commuter station
16-2238 2016   facility in the village.
Res.    1-4-   Awarding a contract to Melrose Pyrotechnics, Inc.
16-2235 2017
Res.    1-4-   Authorizing an agreement with LDV Inc.
17-2242 2017
Res.    1-4-   Executing an agreement with Currie Motors.
17-2243 2017
Res.    1-4-   Approving an agreement with the state and the village.
17-2246 2017
Res.    1-4-   Approving an amusements contract with All Around Amusement, Inc.
17-2248 2017
Res.    1-4-   Approving a three-year agreement with Environmental Systems Research.
17-2249 2017
Res.    1-25-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with Laraway Communications Center.
17-2255 2017
Res.    1-25-  Entering into a contract with Water Well Solutions IL Division, LLC.
17-2256 2017
Res.    2-15-  Authorizing a contract for professional services with Wight & Company.
17-2262 2017
Res. -  3-1-   Intergovernmental agreement between the village and the county for electronics
        2017   recycling.
Res.    3-1-   Authorizing the amendment of a contract with Fire Recovery USA, LLC.
17-2264 2017
Res.    3-1-   Awarding contract to Front Range Environmental, LLC.
17-2266 2017
Res.    3-1-   Intergovernmental agreement between the village and the county.
17-2267 2017
Res.    4-5-   Approving an office license agreement with Senior Services Center of Will
17-2273 2017   County, Inc.
Res.    4-5-   Approving a sign license agreement with BMO Harris Bank.
17-2274 2017
Res.    4-5-   Authorizing an amendment to an intergovernmental agreement with the Villages of
17-2278 2017   Bolingbrook and Plainfield.
Res.    4-5-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the State
17-2279 2017   Department of Transportation.
Res.    4-5-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the county.
17-2280 2017
Res.    4-5-   Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the county.
17-2281 2017
Res.    4-5-   Authorizing a development agreement with DCT-5 Greenwood, LLC.
17-2282 2017
Res.    4-5-   Waiving the bid process and accepting the price quote from McCann Industries.
17-2283 2017
Res.    4-5-   Awarding contract to Meade Electric Company, Inc.
17-2284 2017
Res.    4-5-   Waiving the bid process and accepting the price quote from S & J Door, Inc.
17-2285 2017
Res.    4-5-   Approving a sign license agreement with Romeoville Dental.
17-2287 2017
Res.    4-19-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the price quote from Tri-Tech Electric.
17-2289 2017
Res.    4-19-  Entering into a contract with Globe Construction.
17-2290 2017
Res.    4-19-  Waiving bid process and accepting the proposal from Water Well Solutions.
17-2291 2017
Res.    4-19-  Approving a sign license agreement with Subway.
17-2294 2017
Res.    4-19-  Authorizing a contract with Tyler Technologies.
17-2295 2017
Res.    4-19-  Awarding a contract to Len Cox & Sons.
17-2296 2017
Res.    4-19-  Entering into a contract with J. Russ & Company, Inc.
17-2297 2017
Res.    5-3-   Approving a supplement to the existing preliminary engineering services
17-2301 2017   agreement for federal participation with V3 Companies of Illinois.
Res.    5-3-   Authorizing an amendment to a development agreement between the village; GPT N.
17-2302 2017   Schmidt Road Owners, LLC; and V1 Schmidt, LLC.
Res.    5-3-   Entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
17-2304 2017
Res.    5-3-   Entering into a contract with P.T. Ferro Construction Corporation.
17-2305 2017
Res.    5-3-   Waiving bid process and purchasing equipment from JX Peterbilt.
17-2306 2017
Res.    5-3-   Waiving bidding requirements and contracting with JX Peterbilt.
17-2307 2017
Res.    5-3-   Authorizing an employment agreement with Stephen J. Gulden.
17-2309 2017
Res.    5-17-  Awarding the contract to Utility Dynamics Corporation.
17-2312 2017
Res.    5-17-  Authorizing an agreement to rescind the agreement dated 12-18-2013 between the
17-2314 2017   village and Indoor Sports Management Group, LLC.
Res.    5-17-  Authorizing a contract with Harbour Contractors.
17-2315 2017
Res.    6-7-   Waiving bid process and accepting price quote from Metropolitan Industries.
17-2321 2017
Res.    6-7-   Waiving bid process and accepting price quote from Tri-Tech Electric.
17-2322 2017
Res.    6-7-   Intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Forest Park.
17-2323 2017
Res.    6-7-   Authorizing a contract with BWM Global.
17-2325 2017
Res.    6-7-   Authorizing a contract with Dewberry.
17-2326 2017
Res.    6-7-   Approving sign lease agreement with Mity Nail Spa.
17-2327 2017
Res.    6-7-   Waiving of bids and purchasing bus from Best Bus Sales.
17-2328 2017
Res.    6-7-   Authorizing a contract with Grosshening, Inc.
17-2329 2017
Res.    6-21-  Entering into contract with Garage Floor Coating of Chicago IL, LLC.
17-2330 2017
Res.    6-21-  Authorizing an amendment to the existing agreement.
17-2332 2017
Res.    6-21-  Waiving bid process and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan Industries.
17-2333 2017
Res.    6-21-  Waiving bid process and accepting the price quote from Metropolitan Industries.
17-2334 2017
Res.    6-21-  Authorizing a contract with Dewberry.
17-2337 2017
Res.    6-21-  Authorizing a contract with CDW.
17-2339 2017
Res.    6-25-  Extension of intergovernmental agreement with Will County Electric Aggregation
17-2319 2017   Group.
Res.    7-19-  Awarding contract to Steve Spiess Construction, Inc.
17-2331 2017
Res.    7-19-  Approving an agreement with the State Department of Transportation and the
17-2342 2017   village.
Res.    7-19-  Waiving bid process and awarding construction project to J. Russ and Company,
17-2343 2017   Inc.
Res.    7-19-  Waiving bid requirement and purchasing vehicle from Bob Ridings Fleet Sale.
17-2344 2017
Res.    7-19-  Authorizing execution of the state public works mutual aid network agreement.
17-2345 2017
Res.    7-19-  Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with Mobilitie, LLC.
17-2347 2017
Res.    7-19-  Authorizing an amendment to a development agreement with Romeo Gardens, LLC.
17-2348 2017
Res.    7-19-  Waiving bid requirements and awarding contract to Landmark Ford.
17-2350 2017
Res.    7-19-  Authorizing a change order for Discovery Park contract with J. Russ and
17-2351 2017   Company.
Res.    7-19-  Lease agreement with Martin Whalen.
17-2355 2017
Res.    7-19-  Agreement with Call One for telecommunications.
17-2356 2017
Res.    7-19-  Authorizing contract with Express Signs.
17-2357 2017
Res.    7-19-  Entering into a contract with Harbour Construction.
17-2358 2017
Res.    8-16-  Authorizing a contract with Miles Chevrolet, Police Department Systems, Ragan
17-2362 2017   Communications, Kustom Signals, BMS/Data 911, Ray O’Herron, Magid and Car
               Reflections.
Res.    8-16-  Authorizing a concession stand license agreement with Romeoville Youth Football
17-2363 2017   and Cheerleading.
Res.    8-16-  Intergovernmental agreement with Valley View Community Unit School District no.
17-2364 2017   365U.
Res.    8-16-  Execution of a lease agreement with MailFinance.
17-2365 2017
Res.    8-16-  Authorizing a contract with ServiceMaster Restore.
17-2366 2017
Res.    8-16-  Authorizing a contract with Hitchcock Design Group.
17-2367 2017
Res.    8-16-  Authorizing a renewal of a bus shelter/advertising agreement with Illinois
17-2368 2017   Convenience & Safety Corporation.
Res.    8-16-  Executing a contract with Harbour Construction.
17-2369 2017
Res.    9-6-   Awarding a contract to Denler, Inc.
17-2372 2017
17-1409 9-20-  Approving an amendment to the Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone
        2017   intergovernmental agreement.
17-1410 9-20-  Approving an amendment to the Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone
        2017   intergovernmental agreement.
Res.    9-20-  Intergovernmental agreement with the county (medication and personal care
17-2381 2017   products disposal).
Res.    9-20-  Authorizing a diesel fuel tax rebate agreement.
17-2382 2017
Res.    9-20-  Authorizing a contract with Digital Sky.
17-2384 2017
Res.    9-20-  Amending an agreement with Cartegraph Systems, Inc.
17-2385 2017
17-1407 10-4-  Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement with Abbott Land
        2017   Gateway, LLC - Gateway North Upper Redevelopment Project Area.
17-1408 10-4-  Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement with Abbott Land
        2017   Gateway, LLC - Gateway South Lower Redevelopment Project Area.
Res.    10-4-  Entering into a contract with MSA/Air One, Inc.
17-2396 2017
17-1414 10-18- Adopting a collective bargaining agreement between the village and the
        2017   Romeoville Professional Firefighters Union, I.A.F.F. Local #4237.
Res.    10-18- Authorizing a service agreement with T&C Trapping.
17-2405 2017
Res.    11-1-  Authorizing a contract with Wright Automotive.
17-2406 2017
Res.    11-1-  Awarding contract to Genco Industries, Inc.
17-2410 2017
Res.    11-1-  Participation in the state bid contract to purchase road salt from Cargill Inc.
17-2411 2017
Res.    11-1-  Authorizing a development agreement with ONEOK North System, LLC.
17-2412 2017
Res.    11-1-  Authorizing the execution of a contract with Passport Parking, Inc.
17-2413 2017
Res.    11-1-  Waiving the bidding requirements and entering into a contract with J. Hassert
17-2414 2017   Landscaping.
Res.    11-15- Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Joliet
17-2416 2017   Regional Port District.
Res.    11-15- Authorizing a contract with ServiceMaster Restore.
17-2417 2017
Res.    11-15- Authorizing an agreement with Alarm Monitoring Services - Tyco Integrated
17-2418 2017   Security.
Res.    12-6-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the county.
17-2420 2017
17-1444 12-20- Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement with CT MIC Bluff Road
        2017   Venture, LLC.
Res.    12-20- Authorizing an amendment to the existing agreement in order to extend the
17-2425 2017   estimated ending date for the Phase I Engineering for I-55 interchanges at
               Illinois Route 126 and Airport Road.
Res.    12-20- Waive the bid process and accept the price quote from Total Automation
17-2426 2017   Concepts, Inc.
Res.    12-20- Authorizing a contract with LDV, Ragan Communications, Ray O’Herron and Car
17-2427 2017   Reflections.
Res.    12-20- Waive the bidding requirements and utilizing the state bid contract to purchase
17-2429 2017   vehicles.
Res.    1-17-  Waive the bidding requirements and utilizing the state bid contract to purchase
18-2432 2018   a vehicle.
Res.    1-17-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with DuPage Township.
18-2435 2018
18-1464 2-7-   Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an economic incentive agreement
        2018   with Thomas Motors of Joliet, Inc.
Res.    2-7-   Waiving the formal bidding process and awarding contract to V3 Construction
18-2436 2018   Group, Ltd.
Res.    2-21-  Waiving the formal bidding process and awarding contract to V3 Construction
18-2445 2018   Group, Ltd.
Res.    2-21-  Authorizing an amendment to a development agreement with William Ryan Homes,
18-2446 2018   Inc.
Res.    2-21-  Amending an agreement dated 11-22-2016.
18-2448 2018
Res.    3-7-   Awarding a contract to Melrose Pyrotechnics, Inc.
18-2449 2018
Res.    3-7-   Authorizing a development agreement with Illini Precast-Romeoville, LLC.
18-2450 2018
Res.    3-21-  Waive the bidding requirements and utilize the suburban purchasing cooperative
18-2452 2018   to purchase a truck.
Res.    3-21-  Reauthorize the waiving of bids to purchase a vehicle.
18-2454 2018
Res.    3-21-  Waiving of bids for the purchase of a vehicle from Landmark Ford, Inc.
18-2455 2018
Res.    3-21-  Waive the bid process and accept the proposal from EMC.
18-2456 2018
Res.    3-21-  Authorizing a contract with FARO.
18-2457 2018
Res.    4-4-   Authorizing an amendment to a development agreement with ONEOK North System,
18-2459 2018   LLC.
Res.    4-4-   Authorizing a concession stand license agreement with Lightning Event and
18-2460 2018   Management, LLC.
Res.    4-4-   Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with North Rock Real Estate, LLC.
18-2462 2018
Res.    4-18-  Authorizing the execution of a memorandum of agreement between the Department
18-2463 2018   of Homeland Security and the Village Police Department.
Res.    4-18-  Authorizing an economic development agreement with Illinois Developers, LLC.
18-2466 2018
Res.    4-18-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the Commuter Rail Division of the
18-2467 2018   Regional Transportation Authority.
Res.    4-18-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the Commuter Rail Division of the
18-2468 2018   Regional Transportation Authority.
Res.    4-18-  Authorizing the execution of a settlement and termination agreement with Indoor
18-2469 2018   Sports Management Group, LLC.
Res.    4-18-  Authorizing a concession stand license agreement with Deer Crossing Park - The
18-2470 2018   Bambini Group, LLC.
Res.    4-18-  Waiving bidding requirements and utilizing state bid contract to purchase a
18-2472 2018   truck from Landmark Ford, Inc.
Res.    4-18-  Approving additional water main construction and an addition to the current
18-2473 2018   water main rehabilitation program contract.
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the bid process and accepting price quote from HydroDyne Engineering.
18-2474 2018
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with Globe Construction.
18-2475 2018
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the bid process and accepting proposal from Central Restaurant
18-2476 2018   Products.
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the bids and authorizing the purchase of software from Cellebrite.
18-2477 2018
Res.    4-18-  Waiving the bids and accepting bid from HTC Commercial Flooring.
18-2478 2018
Res.    5-2-   Waiving the bidding requirements and utilizing the NJPA to purchase a truck.
18-2482 2018
Res.    5-2-   Waive the bid process and accepting the price quote from Husqvarna.
18-2483 2018
Res.    5-2-   Waive the bid process and enter into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
18-2484 2018
Res.    5-2-   Entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
18-2485 2018
Res.    5-2-   Waive the bid process and accepting the price quote from Shorewood Home & Auto.
18-2486 2018
Res.    5-2-   Authorizing a contract with BWM Global.
18-2488 2018
Res.    5-2-   Authorizing a contract with George’s Landscaping, Inc.
18-2489 2018
Res.    5-2-   Authorizing a contract with George’s Landscaping, Inc.
18-2490 2018
Res.    5-2-   Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Elmhurst and the
18-2493 2018   Villages of Frankfort, Lemont, New Lenox, Shorewood and Westmont.
Res.    5-2-   Authorizing an amendment to a concession stand license agreement with Lightning
18-2494 2018   Event and Management, LLC.
Res.    5-16-  Executing a master equity lease agreement with Enterprise FM Trust.
18-2496 2018
Res.    5-16-  Approving an agreement with Statewide Amusement, Inc.
18-2497 2018
Res.    5-16-  Waive the bidding requirement and utilizing the suburban purchasing cooperative
18-2499 2018   for the purchase of a vehicle.
Res.    5-16-  Waive the bidding requirements and utilizing the NJPA for purchase of
18-2500 2018   equipment.
Res.    5-16-  Authorizing a contract with Hitchcock Design Group.
18-2501 2018
Res.    5-16-  Waiving the bid process and authorizing the purchase of equipment from CDW-G.
18-2503 2018
18-1488 6-20-  Authorizing the issuance and sale of revenue refunding bonds (Lewis
        2018   University), Series 2018.
Res.    6-20-  Authorizing a second amendment to a development agreement with ONEOK North
18-2505 2018   System, LLC.
Res.    6-20-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the State Department of
18-2507 2018   Transportation for street lighting.
Res.    6-20-  Approving an interagency agreement with the State Police (criminal history
18-2508 2018   record information).
Res.    6-20-  Authorizing a redevelopment agreement (TD Romeoville, LLC - Route 53 and 135th
18-2509 2018   Street).
Res.    6-20-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the Plainfield Park District
18-2510 2018   (Budler Park improvements).
Res.    6-20-  Approving an agreement with BBM Financial (Edward Athletic and Event Center -
18-2512 2018   ATM).
Res.    6-20-  Entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC for the pavement rehabilitation
18-2521 2018   of Volunteer Park.
Res.    6-20-  Accepting a proposal from Peerless Fence for fence repairs at various village
18-2524 2018   parks.
Res.    6-20-  Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement with Act Services, Inc., for
18-2525 2018   a transition plan to make the village’s parks sites accessible.
Res.    7-18-  Authorizing the execution of a concession stand license agreement with
18-2526 2018   Romeoville Football and Cheerleading.
Res.    7-18-  Accepting the proposal from Aqua Designs (irrigation at Fire Station no. 1).
18-2527 2018
Res.    7-18-  Authorizing a sponsorship/naming rights agreement with Thomas Motors of Joliet,
18-2528 2018   Inc.
Res.    7-18-  Authorizing license agreements (Napierville Drive/Honeytree Subdivision rear
18-2530 2018   yard fence replacements).
Res.    7-18-  Extending the intergovernmental agreement with Will County Electric Aggregation
18-2535 2018   Group.
Res.    7-18-  Waiving the bids and entering into a contract with Northwest Cedar Products
18-2536 2018   (Honeytree).
Res.    7-18-  Authorizing the waiving of bids for janitorial services with Integrated Service
18-2537 2018   Solutions, LLC for the Edward Hospital Athletic and Event Center.
Res.    7-18-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal from Denler, Inc. for the
18-2540 2018   placement of high density mineral bond pavement surface treatment.
Res.    8-15-  Authorizing the procurement of professional design and engineering services
18-2543 2018   from Hitchcock Design Group and Robinson Engineering, Ltd.
Res.    8-15-  Approving a license agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America
18-2546 2018   (Airport Road).
Res.    8-15-  Waiving bids to accept a landscape proposal for turf seeding at Discovery Park
18-2548 2018   by George’s Landscaping, Inc.
Res.    8-15-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal for Fer-Pal Infrastructure
18-2552 2018   for the lining of water main along Weber Road.
Res.    8-15-  Authorizing the execution of a tower lease agreement with Lewis University.
18-2554 2018
Res.    9-5-   Awarding the contract for the construction of Phase 2 of the Metra Parking Lot
18-2563 2018   to PT Ferro Construction Co.
Res.    9-5-   Executing the contract for lease purchase agreement with BciCapital, Inc. for
18-2564 2018   an ambulance module.
Res.    9-5-   Amending Res. 18-2536.
18-2565 2018
Res.    9-5-   Approving an amended intergovernmental agreement with the Commuter Rail
18-2566 2018   Division of the Regional Transportation Authority (“Metra”).
Res.    9-5-   Approving an amended intergovernmental agreement with the Commuter Rail
18-2567 2018   Division of the Regional Transportation Authority (“Metra”).
Res.    9-5-   Waiving fo bids to accept a proposal for new decking for the Boardwalk at
18-2568 2018   Century Park from The Kenneth Company.
Res.    9-5-   Awarding the contract for the 2018/2019 Roadway Crack Sealing Program to
18-2572 2018   Denler, Inc.
Res.    9-19-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the Lockport Township Fire
18-2573 2018   Protection District (mobile command center usage).
Res.    9-19-  Entering into a contract with D Construction, Inc. for bridge maintenance work.
18-2577 2018
Res.    9-19-  Entering into a contract with Robert Juris and Associates for architectural
18-2578 2018   services for public works facility enhancements.
Res.    9-19-  Accepting a proposal for a pavement evaluation condition assessment and
18-2579 2018   pavement management services from Applied Research Associates, Inc. (ARA).
Res.    9-19-  Authorizing the execution of an information technology consulting and support
18-2580 2018   agreement (GAD Group Technology, Inc.).
Res.    9-19-  Authorizing the waiving of bids for the provision of tree planting services for
18-2583 2018   the village tree replacement program and for the purchase of trees (J. Hassert
               Landscaping).
18-1507 10-3-  Approving the third amendment to the Marquette TIF Redevelopment Project Area.
        2018
18-1508 10-3-  Amending Ord. 2010-89 re: the Marquette TIF Redevelopment Project Area.
        2018
18-1509 10-3-  Amending tax increment allocation financing for the Marquette Tax Increment
        2018   Finance District.
        10-3-  Approving the first amendment to a Tax Increment Redevelopment Plan and
18-1510 2018   Redevelopment Project for the Independence Boulevard Redevelopment Project
               Area.
        10-3-  Amending Ord. 18-1455 designating the Independence Boulevard Redevelopment
18-1511 2018   Project Area a redevelopment project area pursuant to the Tax Increment
               Allocation Redevelopment Act.
18-1512 10-3-  Amending Ord. 18-1456 adopting tax increment allocation financing for the
        2018   Independence Boulevard Tax Increment Finance District.
18-1513 10-3-  Approving a tax increment redevelopment plan and redevelopment project for the
        2018   Normantown/Weber Road Redevelopment Project Area.
        10-3-  Designating the Normantown/Weber Road Redevelopment Project Area a
18-1514 2018   redevelopment project area pursuant to the Tax Increment Allocation
               Redevelopment Act.
18-1515 10-3-  Adopting tax increment allocation financing for the Normantown/Weber Road Tax
        2018   Increment Finance District.
Res.    10-3-  Awarding the contract for drilling of Well 14 to Water Well Solutions of
18-2588 2018   Elburn, IL.
Res.    10-3-  Authorizing the execution of a grant agreement - Romeoville Area Chamber of
18-2589 2018   Commerce, Inc.
Res.    10-3-  Authorizing a redevelopment agreement (724 Parkwood, LLC - 724 Parkwood
18-2590 2018   Avenue).
18-1519 11-7-  Approving a recapture agreement (Airport Road Holdings, LLC - Pinnacle Drive).
        2018
Res.    11-7-  Accepting a contract with Midwest Sports Surfaces, LLC for the resurfacing of
18-2600 2018   tennis courts.
Res.    11-7-  Authorizing the execution of an amended and restated agreement with BRT
18-2602 2018   Outdoor, LLC.
Res.    11-7-  A resolution for the participation in the state bid contract for the supplying
18-2605 2018   of bulk road salt.
Res.    11-7-  Accepting the price quote for the installation of snow guards on Public Works
18-2606 2018   and Police Department buildings (Filotto Roofing, Inc.).
Res.    11-7-  Entering into a contract for the installation of a fence - Northwest Cedar
18-2607 2018   Products.
Res.    12-5-  Authorizing a participation agreement for overdose detection mapping
18-2610 2018   application.
Res.    12-5-  Approving a development agreement with Russell, Inc. (Feasibility Cost Study
18-2612 2018   Sharing - Russell, Inc. - SW corner of Weber/Normantown).
Res.    12-5-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to a grant agreement - Romeoville
18-2613 2018   Area Chamber of Commerce, Inc.
Res.    12-5-  Approving a license agreement (3 Phase Line Construction, Inc.).
18-2614 2018
Res.    12-19- Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with Valley View School District -
18-2618 2018   Early Childhood Center Before and After School Program.
Res.    12-19- Authorizing a development agreement with Pal Group, Inc.; 815 Independence,
18-2619 2018   LLC; and 765 Independence, LLC.
Res.    12-19- Accepting a contract with George’s Landscape, Inc. for playground improvements
18-2622 2018   at Budler Park.
19-1538 1-6-   Authorizing execution of playground equipment donation agreement with Kids
        2019   Around the World, Inc.
Res.    1-16-  Approving a facility use agreement with Blue Chip Commerce, LLC.
18-2623 2019
Res.    1-16-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement between the village and Plainfield
19-2627 2019   Community Consolidated School District 202.
Res.    1-16-  Authorizing the execution of a subordination agreement by and between the
19-2633 2019   village and BG Investment Group, LLC.
Res.    2-6-   Accepting proposal from Advance Fire Training, Inc. for repair of Fire
19-2635 2019   Department burn tower.
Res.    2-6-   Approving a roadway agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline Co. of America.
19-2638 2019
Res.    2-6-   Authorizing Advent Systems, Inc. to make upgrades to AV system.
19-2641 2019
Res.    2-6-   Approving amendment to contract with Waste Management for at your door special
19-2642 2019   collection services.
Res.    2-6-   Amending a contract and certain lease agreement with Martin Whalen Office
19-2643 2019   Solutions, Inc. for copy equipment.
Res.    2-20-  Authorizing execution of second amendment to Lean Green Healthy Vending
19-2644 2019   location agreement.
Res.    2-20-  Authorizing beverage sales agreement with Bottling Group, LLC.
19-2645 2019
Res.    2-20-  Approving intergovernmental agreement with the State Office of the Comptroller
19-2646 2019   regarding Comptroller’s Local Debt Recovery Program.
Res.    3-6-   Awarding contract for Decorative Street Lighting Phase 4 project.
19-2649 2019
Res.    3-6-   Approving facility use agreement with Zero Gravity Basketball, LLC.
19-2651 2019
19-1549 3-20-  Authorizing issuance and sale of general obligation bonds, Series 2019.
        2019
Res.    3-20-  Authorizing execution of grant agreement with OAI, Inc. for Fire Academy grant
19-2654 2019   funding.
Res.    3-20-  Approving revised scope of work agreement with Digital Sky.
19-2656 2019
Res.    3-20-  Authorizing contract with Comcast for fiber services.
19-2657 2019
19-1562 4-3-   Reserving volume cap in connection with private activity bond issues.
        2019
Res.    4-3-   Authorizing acceptance of proposal for building insulation for the fitness
19-2658 2019   center, adjoining hallway and mezzanine.
Res.    4-3-   Authorizing contract for purchase of training firearms simulator.
19-2661 2019
Res.    4-3-   Approving independent contractor agreement regarding Edward Athletic Event
19-2662 2019   Center.
Res.    4-17-  Accepting price quote from Crowther Roofing and Sheet Metal, Inc. for roofing
19-2668 2019   at Fire Station no. 2.
Res.    4-17-  Accepting quote from Tri-Tech Electric for drain pipe boring along Oakton
19-2669 2019   Avenue.
Res.    4-17-  Accepting proposals from Midwest Salt and Cargill Salt for supply of bulk rock
19-2673 2019   sale for ion exchange facilities.
Res.    4-17-  Authorizing adoption of proposal from Sikich, LLP for professional auditing
19-2675 2019   services.
Res.    4-17-  Authorizing services agreement T&C Trapping.
19-2677 2019
Res.    4-17-  Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with County Animal Control Services.
19-2678 2019
Res.    5-1-   Authorizing adoption of proposal from Wight & Co. for repair of Deer Crossing
19-2674 2019   Park’s amphitheater seating and playground retaining walls.
Res.    5-1-   Approving proposal from Hitchcock Design Group and Robinson Engineering, Ltd.
19-2680 2019   for renovation of Conservation Park.
Res.    5-1-   Approving proposal from Hitchcock Design Group for design/construction services
19-2683 2019   for installation of playground at Discovery Park.
Res.    5-1-   Awarding contract to Robert Juris & Associates, Inc. for public works
19-2685 2019   facilities construction project.
Res.    5-1-   Entering into contract with P.T. Ferro Construction Co. for street resurfacing
19-2686 2019   project.
Res.    5-1-   Entering into contract with K-Five Construction Co. for hot-mix asphalt
19-2687 2019   program.
Res.    5-1-   Awarding contract to Meade Electric Co., Inc. for traffic signal maintenance
19-2688 2019   program.
Res.    5-1-   Accepting proposal from able Masonry Development, Inc. for improvements to
19-2691 2019   Renwick/Weber road sign.
Res.    5-15-  Approving purchase of equipment for wastewater treatment plant.
19-2700 2019
Res.    5-15-  Approving proposal from Wight & Co. for design/construction of police and
19-2702 2019   service animal memorial.
Res.    5-15-  Approving proposal from Carroll Seating Co. for basketball equipment for
19-2703 2019   Edwards Athletic Center.
Res.    6-5-   Authorizing contract with Wick Buildings, Inc. for purchase of building shell.
19-2704 2019
Res.    6-5-   Adopting Will County Bikeway Plan.
19-2707 2019
Res.    6-5-   Approving facility use agreement with BIG Gymnastics, Inc.
19-2709 2019
Res.    6-5-   Accepting proposal from Caliber Construction Co. for gymnasium insulation at
19-2720 2019   recreation center.
Res.    6-19-  Approving purchase and installation of updates to Lakewood north lift station.
19-2723 2019
Res.    6-19-  Utilizing existing street rehabilitation contracts for S. Pinnacle Drive.
19-2724 2019
Res.    6-19-  Authorizing purchase of extrication tools from Equipment Management Co.
19-2726 2019
Res.    6-19-  Authorizing contract with INAP Disaster Recovery Storage.
19-2727 2019
Res.    7-17-  Authorizing development agreement with Harvest C Romeoville B1, LLC.
19-2725 2019
Res.    7-17-  Accepting bid from Kenneth Co. to install playground at Discovery Park.
19-2731 2019
Res.    7-17-  Awarding contract for 2019/2020 roadway crack sealing program.
19-2734 2019
Res.    7-17-  Authorizing development agreement with Boyer-Rosene Moving & Storage, Inc.
19-2735 2019
Res.    7-17-  Authorizing economic incentive agreement with Project Relax for development of
19-2736 2019   e-commerce facility.
19-1589 8-7-   Adopting successor collective bargaining agreements with Professional Fire
        2019   Fighters Union I.A.F.F. Local #237.
Res.    8-7-   Approving intergovernmental agreement with NE Illinois Regional Crime Lab.
19-2739 2019
Res.    8-7-   Approving amusement contract with all Around Amusement, Inc.
19-2740 2019
Res.    8-7-   Authorizing economic incentive agreement with Euromarket Designs, Inc. for
19-2741 2019   development of e-commerce facility.
Res.    8-7-   Approving purchase of sewer line rapid assessment tool.
19-2744 2019
Res.    8-7-   Entering into contract with P.T. Ferro Construction Co. for bridge maintenance
19-2745 2019   work.
Res.    8-7-   Authorizing contract with Hitchcock Design Group for Athletic and Event Center
19-2749 2019   Phase 2.
Res.    8-7-   Authorizing second amendment to grant agreement.
19-2750 2019
Res.    8-7-   Approving agreement for civil engineering service for Edward Hospital Athletic
19-2751 2019   and Event Center Phase 2.
Res.    8-7-   Authorizing contract with Dewberry for Edward Hospital Athletic and Event
19-2753 2019   Center Phase 2.
19-1590 8-21-  Authorizing the issuance and sale of general obligation bonds, Series 2019B.
        2019
Res.    8-21-  Approving license agreement with NCWPCS MPL 26.
19-2747 2019
Res.    8-21-  Approving construction by Metropolitan Industries of pressure relief valve
19-2757 2019   station improvements.
Res.    8-21-  Approving of addition to water main rehabilitation contract with Len Cox & Sons
19-2758 2019   Excavating.
Res.    8-21-  Accepting proposal from Denler, Inc. for pavement surface treatment.
19-2759 2019
Res.    8-21-  Approving development agreement with TOPE Corporation, Inc. regarding Haley
19-2760 2019   Meadows Pond.
Res.    8-21-  Accepting proposal from Cyberdyne Masonry Corporation for Deer Crossing Park
19-2761 2019   amphitheater and playground.
Res.    8-21-  Adopting early retirement incentive program.
19-2762 2019
Res.    8-21-  Approving agreement with CGI Communications, Inc.
19-2764 2019
Res.    8-21-  Amending Res. 19-2691.
19-2766 2019
Res.    8-21-  Amendment to Downtown TIF District redevelopment plan and project.
19-2767 2019
Res.    9-4-   Authorizing concession stand license agreement with Romeoville Youth Football
19-2768 2019   and Cheerleading.
Res.    9-4-   Approving contract with GLI Services for police and service animal memorial.
19-2772 2019
Res.    9-4-   Accepting proposal from F.H. Paschen for remodel of recreation center desk.
19-2773 2019
Res.    9-4-   Authorizing contract with Harbour Contractors for Athletic and Event Center
19-2774 2019   expansion and pool project.
Res.    9-18-  Authorizing consignment agreement with Enterprise Fleet Management, Inc. for
19-2776 2019   sale of vehicles.
Res.    9-18-  Authorizing contract with Midwest Air Pro, Inc. for vehicle exhaust system for
19-2777 2019   Fire Department.
Res.    9-18-  Executing contract with Pure Technologies regarding ductile iron force main.
19-2778 2019
Res.    9-18-  Executing contract with Steven Spiess Construction, Inc. regarding lift
19-2779 2019   station.
Res.    9-18-  Accepting price quote from Crowther Roofing and Sheet Metal, Inc. for roofing
19-2781 2019   at wastewater treatment buildings.
Res.    9-18-  Authorizing contract for installation of concrete slab floor for REMA building
19-2782 2019   addition.
Res.    9-18-  Approving modifications to wastewater clarifier skimmer arms.
19-2783 2019
Res.    9-18-  Approving installation of wastewater effluent valve.
19-2784 2019
Res.    9-18-  Approving replacement of wastewater non-potable water filter.
19-2785 2019
Res.    9-18-  Approving three-year agreement with Environmental Systems Research.
19-2786 2019
Res.    10-2-  Intergovernmental agreement with State Department of Healthcare and Family
19-2790 2019   Services (GEMT).
Res.    10-2-  Contract with Loomis Armored US, LLC.
19-2791 2019
Res.    10-2-  Agreement with Cardconnect, LLC.
19-2792 2019
Res.    10-2-  Resignation/severance agreement and release with Jason Buckholtz.
19-2793 2019
Res.    10-2-  Resignation/severance agreement and release with Allen Downen.
19-2794 2019
Res.    10-2-  Contract with Johler Demolition.
19-2795 2019
Res.    10-2-  Agreement with ESO Solutions.
19-2796 2019
Res.    10-16- Contract with Compass Materials America, Inc.
19-2799 2019
Res.    10-16- ComEd electric facilities service agreement.
19-2800 2019
Res.    10-16- Agreement with Badger Meter.
19-2802 2019
Res.    11-6-  Contract with W.S. Darley Company.
19-2807 2019
Res.    11-6-  Contract with Steven Spiess Construction, Inc.
19-2808 2019
19-1601 11-20- Boundary line agreement between the village and the Village of Woodridge.
        2019
Res.    11-20- Agreement with Communications Direct, Inc.
19-2810 2019
Res.    11-20- Agreement with Prep Network, LLC.
19-2816 2019
Res.    11-20- Agreement with Made Hoops, LLC.
19-2817 2019
Res.    11-20- Severance agreement and release with Steve Lucchesi.
19-2819 2019
Res.    12-4-  Contract with Utility Dynamics Corporation.
19-2821 2019
Res.    12-4-  Utilizing the existing street rehabilitation contract.
19-2826 2019
Res.    12-18- Agreement with Communications Direct, Inc.
19-2830 2019
Res.    12-18- Contract with Ray O’Herron.
19-2831 2019
Res.    12-18- Agreement with Mark Turvey.
19-2832 2019
Res.    1-15-  Agreement with Axon.
20-2842 2020
Res.    1-15-  Contract with Morrow Brothers Ford, Inc.
20-2844 2020
Res.    2-5-   Agreement with the State of Illinois and the village.
20-2845 2020
Res.    2-5-   Contract with Dahme Mechanical Industries, Inc.
20-2849 2020
Res.    2-5-   Contract with George’s Landscape, Inc.
20-2850 2020
Res.    2-5-   Temporary license agreement with Pace.
20-2852 2020
Res.    2-19-  Amendment to intergovernmental agreement for engineering services, and
20-2853 2020   construction of roadway improvements, and traffic signal modifications at the
               intersection with Weber Road and Gaskin Drive.
20-1627 2-19-  Second amendment to an economic incentive agreement with Steve Spandonidis-
        2020   Mongo McMichael’s Restaurant.
Res.    2-19-  Contract with Morrow Brothers Ford, Inc.
20-2857 2020
Res.    2-19-  Agreement with US Protection Agency, Inc.
20-2859 2020
Res.    2-19-  Contract with Kim Construction Company, Inc.
20-2861 2020
Res.    2-19-  Agreement with the First Responders Wellness Center.
20-2862 2020
Res.    3-4-   Severance agreement and release with Brandon Helton.
20-2864 2020
Res.    3-4-   Contract with Harbour Contractors, Inc.
20-2865 2020
Res.    3-4-   Grant agreement between the village and Senior Services Center of Will County,
20-2866 2020   Inc.
20-1630 4-1-   Playground equipment donation agreement and rider thereto with Kids Around the
        2020   World, Inc.
Res.    4-1-   Agreement with Exact Sport, LLC.
20-2872 2020
Res.    4-1-   Agreement with Marc Howard.
20-2877 2020
Res.    4-15-  Agreement with V3 Wetland Restoration, LLC.
20-2881 2020
Res.    4-15-  Contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
20-2885 2020
Res.    4-15-  Contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
20-2890 2020
Res.    4-15-  Contract with BWM Global.
20-2892 2020
Res.    4-15-  Contract with Globe Construction.
20-2893 2020
Res.    4-15-  Contract with H&H Electric Company.
20-2894 2020
Res.    4-15-  Revised consignment agreement with Enterprise Fleet Management, Inc.
20-2895 2020
Res.    4-15-  Agreement with Dewberry Architects.
20-2898 2020
20-1634 5-6-   Adopting successor collective bargaining agreement between the village and
        2020   Metropolitan Alliance of Police.
Res.    5-6-   Agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
20-2899 2020
Res.    5-6-   Agreement with state and the village.
20-2901 2020
Res.    5-6-   Contract with Metropolitan Pump Company and Robinson Engineering, Ltd.
20-2905 2020
Res.    5-6-   Contract with Batelle Memorial Institute.
20-2906 2020
Res.    5-6-   Contract with Cartegraph.
20-2907 2020
Res.    5-6-   Grant agreement with the Romeoville Area Chamber of Commerce, Inc.
20-2909 2020
Res.    5-6-   Severance agreement and release with Maryann Helton.
20-2910 2020
Res.    5-6-   Settlement agreement and release in pending litigation between Romeoville
20-2911 2020   Properties, LLC, d/b/a Village Place Apartments and the village.
Res.    5-20-  First amendment to agreement dated 8-21-2019 between Romeoville and the
20-2914 2020   Naperville Exchange Club.
Res.    5-20-  Addendum to a fireworks contract with Melrose Pyrotechnics, Inc.
20-2919 2020
Res.    6-3-   Amendment to license agreement (3 Phase Line Construction, Inc.)
20-2920 2020
Res.    6-3-   Agreement with DocNetwork, Inc.
20-2921 2020
Res.    6-3-   Contract with P.T. Ferro Construction Co.
20-2923 2020
Res.    6-17-  Facility use agreement with Omni Media, Inc.
20-2925 2020
Res.    6-17-  Authorizing a contract with Wight & Co.
20-2926 2020
Res.    6-17-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the Plainfield Park District.
20-2927 2020
Res.    6-17-  Authorizing an agreement with Heritage Motorsports.
20-2930 2020
Res.    6-17-  Modifying the existing contract with Kim Construction.
20-2934 2020
Res.    6-17-  Approving an amusements contract with All Around Amusement, Inc.
20-2935 2020
Res.    7-15-  Awarding a contract to Len Cox & Sons Excavating.
20-2936 2020
Res.    7-15-  Awarding a contract to Steve Spiess Construction.
20-2937 2020
Res.    7-15-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with the Palos Fire Protection
20-2938 2020   District.
Res.    7-15-  Authorizing an amended event security services agreement with US Protection
20-2939 2020   Agency, Inc.
Res.    7-15-  Approving an amended facility use agreement with Exact Sport, LLC.
20-2940 2020
Res.    7-15-  Authorizing the village to execute a contract with Wight & Company.
20-2942 2020
Res.    7-15-  Approving a second amendment to a license agreement (3 Phase Line Construction,
20-2947 2020   Inc.).
Res.    7-15-  Authorizing an agreement with DACRA Tech, LLC.
20-2948 2020
Res.    7-15-  Authorizing a contract with CDW.
20-2949 2020
Res.    7-15-  Approving a vending machine agreement with Autofrost.
20-2950 2020
Res.    7-15-  Authorizing a contract with Tyler Technologies - Tyler Cashiering.
20-2951 2020
        7-15-  Adopting successor collective bargaining agreement between the village and
20-1651 2020   American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Council
               31.
20-1652 7-15-  Authorizing delivery of consent to assignment and ratification of a
        2020   redevelopment agreement.
Res.    8-19-  Authorizing a traffic enforcement agreement (Institute for Community at
20-2953 2020   Highpoint).
Res.    8-19-  Approving an agreement with Integrated Service Solutions.
20-2954 2020
Res.    8-19-  Approving a sponsorship and banner agreement (Ultimate Team Products).
20-2955 2020
Res.    8-19-  Approving a facility use agreement with Chicagoland Indoor Soccer, Inc.
20-2956 2020
Res.    8-19-  Approving a facility sponsorship agreement with Malta, LLC.
20-2957 2020
Res.    8-19-  Approving a facility sponsorship agreement with Cold Stone Creamery.
20-2958 2020
Res.    8-19-  Approving an agreement with Adams Vending.
20-2959 2020
Res.    8-19-  Awarding a contract to Tri-Tech Electric.
20-2963 2020
Res.    8-19-  Awarding contracts for the Public Works Facilities Construction Project Phase
20-2965 2020   1B.
Res.    8-19-  Entering into a contract with Northwest Cedar Products.
20-2969 2020
Res.    8-19-  Approving an amendment to a facility use agreement with Blue Chip Commerce,
20-2971 2020   LLC.
Res.    8-19-  Entering into contracts for work on the Athletic Center Expansion Project.
20-2972 2020
20-1656 9-2-   Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement between the village and the Village
        2020   of Lemont.
Res.    9-2-   Intergovernmental cooperation agreement by and between Town of Normal, McLean
20-2977 2020   County, IL and the village.
Res.    9-2-   Authorizing a contract with Tyler Technologies.
20-2978 2020
Res.    9-2-   Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county.
20-2980 2020
Res.    9-2-   Approving an easement and maintenance agreement for private road and stormwater
20-2981 2020   management area.
Res.    9-2-   Approving an agreement with All Around Vending Company, Inc.
20-2983 2020
Res.    9-2-   Authorizing a TIF agreement (J & M Auto, d/b/a JM Autoworks).
20-2984 2020
20-1658 9-16-  Authorizing a third amendment to an economic incentive agreement (Steve
        2020   Spandonidis-Mongo McMichael’s Restaurant).
Res.    9-16-  Awarding a contract to Copenhaver Construction Inc.
20-2990 2020
Res.    9-16-  Awarding a contract to Len Cox & Sons Excavating.
20-2991 2020
Res.    9-16-  Authorizing the execution of Addendum 4 and Addendum 5 to contract dated 8-2-
20-2996 2020   2019 between the village and Dewberry Architects, Inc.
Res.    10-7-  Executing an agreement with Ragan Communications.
20-3000 2020
Res.    10-7-  Agreement with Enterprise Fleet Management and Enterprise FM Trust.
20-3005 2020
Res.    10-7-  Authorizing a development agreement with LDD Properties, LLC.
20-3006 2020
Res.    10-7-  Executing a contract with Quadient Leasing USA, Inc.
20-3007 2020
Res.    10-7-  Utilizing state bid contract for the supplying of bulk rock salt for road salt
20-3008 2020   from Cargill Salt.
Res.    10-7-  Executing three addenda to a contract approved by Res. 20-2865 between the
20-3009 2020   village and Harbour Contractors, Inc.
Res.    10-21- Approving a license agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America.
20-3012 2020
Res.    11-4-  Authorizing the execution of a release and waiver agreement with Stephen J.
20-3017 2020   Gulden.
20-1663 11-18- Authorizing a fourth amendment to an economic incentive agreement (Steve
        2020   Spandonidis-Mongo McMichael’s Restaurant).
Res.    11-18- Authorizing execution of a confidential mutual release and settlement agreement
20-3019 2020   by and among the village, Enbridge Energy, Limited Partnership and Oldcastle
               APG South, Inc.
Res.    11-18- Approving a master pole attachment agreement with New Cingular Wireless, LLC,
20-3021 2020   d/b/a AT&T Mobility.
Res.    11-18- Authorizing the execution of a consulting services contract (Brent Hassert
20-3026 2020   Consulting, LLC).
Res.    12-2-  Authorizing the execution of a release and waiver agreement with William
20-3037 2020   Austin.
Res.    12-2-  Approving an agreement with CDW-G.
20-3040 2020
Res.    12-2-  Authorizing the mutual termination of an independent contractor agreement (Marc
20-3041 2020   Howard).
Res.    12-2-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the City of Crest Hill.
20-3042 2020
Res.    12-2-  Approving an easement and maintenance agreement for private road and stormwater
20-3045 2020   management area.
Res.    12-16- Authorizing an agreement and release (434 Clifton).
20-3049 2020
Res.    12-16- Approving a facility use agreement with BIG Gymnastics.
20-3050 2020
Res.    12-16- Approving a facility use agreement with Chicagoland Indoor Soccer, Inc.
20-3051 2020
Res.    12-16- Approving a facility use agreement with Prep Network, LLC.
20-3052 2020
Res.    12-16- Approving a facility use agreement with Made Hoops, LLC.
20-3053 2020
Res.    1-6-   Approving an addendum to the collective bargaining agreement effective May 1,
21-3056 2021   2019 to April 30, 2022 with I.A.F.F. Local 4237.
Res.    1-6-   Approving a facility use agreement with Prime Muay Thai.
21-3057 2021
Res.    1-6-   Approving an exclusive negotiating rights agreement with S.J. Russell, LC.
21-3064 2021
Res.    1-20-  Authorizing a second amendment to a concession stand license agreement
21-3068 2021   (Lightning Event and Management, LLC - Volunteer Park, Village Park, Snack
               Shack-Recreation Center, RAEC).
Res.    1-20-  Authorizing a services agreement with T&C Trapping.
21-3069 2021
Res.    1-20-  Authorizing an agreement with Hitchcock Design Group.
21-3074 2021
Res.    1-20-  Authorizing an economic incentive agreement (Suncera Motor Cars, Inc., a
21-3075 2021   Pennsylvania Corporation).
Res.    2-17-  Accepting the five-year contract with Stewart Spreading.
21-3085 2021
Res.    2-17-  Authorizing the execution of severance agreement and release.
21-3090 2021
Res.    2-17-  Authorizing an economic incentive agreement (Wayfair, LLC).
21-3091 2021
Res.    3-3-   Authorizing the acceptance of the contract with Integral Construction, Inc.
21-3092 2021
Res.    3-3-   Approving an amusements contract (All Around Amusement, Inc. - Romeofest
21-3093 2021   Contract).
Res.    3-3-   Authorizing an agreement between the village and Kane, McKenna & Associates.
21-3094 2021
Res.    3-17-  Authorizing the execution of a fireworks contract with Melrose Pyrotechnics,
21-3097 2021   Inc.
Res.    3-17-  Awarding a contract to Utility Dynamics Corporation.
21-3098 2021
Res.    3-17-  Authorizing the execution of an amended event security services agreement (US
21-3100 2021   Protection Agency, Inc. – Romeofest Security).
Res.    4-7-   Authorizing the execution of severance agreement and release.
21-3104 2021
Res.    4-7-   Authorizing a contract with Aqua Design Enterprises.
21-3105 2021
Res.    4-7-   Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with SK Event Services, LLC.
21-3106 2021
Res.    4-7-   Approving a stormwater operation and maintenance agreement with FRED-ROMEOVILLE
21-3107 2021   HC, LLC.
Res.    4-7-   Approving a traffic agreement with FRED-ROMEOVILLE HC, LLC.
21-3108 2021
Res.    4-7-   Authorizing an agreement between the village and Waste Management.
21-3109 2021
Res.    4-21-  Execution of a recapture payment and release agreement (Pine Trails recapture
21-3112 2021   agreement).
Res.    4-21-  Authorizing an economic incentive agreement (Scene 75).
21-3116 2021
Res.    4-21-  Approving a service agreement with Coverall North America, Inc., d/b/
21-3121 2021   a “Coverall” (RAEC Janitorial Service).
Res.    4-21-  Authorizing a redevelopment agreement (Glazier Romeoville, LLC - Starbucks
21-3123 2021   Development - Route 53).
Res.    5-5-   Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county and the village.
21-3110 2021
Res.    5-5-   Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county and the village.
21-3111 2021
Res.    5-5-   Entering into a contract with Builders Concrete.
21-3131 2021
Res.    5-5-   Entering into a contract with K-Five Construction Corporation.
21-3132 2021
Res.    5-5-   Entering into a contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
21-3134 2021
Res.    5-19-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with the Joliet
21-3137 2021   Regional Port District.
Res.    5-19-  Authorizing a redevelopment agreement with BFR Property Holding, LLC.
21-3138 2021
Res.    5-19-  Approving a license agreement with Commonwealth Edison Company.
21-3140 2021
Res.    5-19-  Entering into a contract with R.W. Dunteman.
21-3141 2021
Res.    5-19-  Entering into a contract with J.S. Alberico.
21-3142 2021
Res.    5-19-  Authorizing the execution of an employment agreement with Dawn M. Caldwell.
21-3146 2021
Res.    6-2-   Authorizing the execution of an agreement with The Conservation Foundation.
21-3153 2021
Res.    6-2-   Amending an agreement with Passport Labs, Inc.
21-3154 2021
Res.    6-2-   Entering into a two-year contract with VisoGraphic.
21-3158 2021
Res.    6-16-  Approving a release agreement with Thomas Morabito.
21-3163 2021
Res.    6-16-  Awarding a contract to P.T. Ferro Construction Co.
21-3168 2021
Res.    6-16-  Authorizing an increase to Martin Cement’s contract.
21-3172 2021
Res.    6-16-  Approving a product agreement with Alaqmar, Inc., d/b/a Cold Stone Creamery.
21-3173 2021
Res.    6-16-  Granting authorization for Village Manager to alter, amend or rescind the
21-3175 2021   agreement with the Naperville Exchange Club.
Res.    7-21-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an intergovernmental agreement
21-3184 2021   with Valley View Community Unit School District no. 365U.
Res.    7-21-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an intergovernmental agreement
21-3185 2021   with the Valley View Community Unit School District no. 365U.
Res.    7-21-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement with Valley View
21-3186 2021   Community Unit School District no. 365U.
Res.    7-21-  Authorizing the execution of a sponsorship agreement with Citgo Petroleum
21-3187 2021   Corporation.
Res.    7-21-  Entering into a contract with Builders Concrete Services, LLC.
21-3188 2021
Res.    7-21-  Entering into a one-year contract with Inkd Apparel.
21-3191 2021
Res.    8-4-   Intergovernmental agreement with the county, Duke Realty Limited Partnership
21-3192 2021   and the village.
Res.    8-4-   Settlement agreement with George C. Bravos.
21-3196 2021
Res.    8-4-   Concession stand agreement with Deer Crossing Park - The Bambini Group, LLC.
21-3199 2021
Res.    8-18-  Authorizing the execution of a severance agreement and release with Rebecca
21-3204 2021   Mendoza.
Res.    8-18-  Awarding a contract to Indicom.
21-3207 2021
Res.    8-18-  Intergovernmental agreement with the county.
21-3208 2021
Res.    8-18-  Authorizing the award and execution of contracts with Harbour Contractors, Inc.
21-3210 2021
Res.    9-1-   Authorizing an increase to Steve Spiess Construction’s contract.
21-3212 2021
Res.    9-1-   Entering into a contract with P.T. Ferro Construction Company.
21-3214 2021
Res.    9-1-   Approving the second Lemont Refinery real property tax assessment settlement
21-3219 2021   agreement.
Res.    9-1-   Authorizing contract with JB Contracting.
21-3223 2021
Res.    9-15-  Approving an addition to the 2020/2021 Hampton Park water main rehabilitation
21-3231 2021   program contract.
Res.    10-6-  Authorizing the equipment lease agreement between Harbour Contractors, Inc. and
21-3235 2021   the village.
Res.    10-6-  Awarding contract to Joseph J. Henderson & Son, Inc.
21-3238 2021
Res.    10-20- Approving an agreement with Extra Electric.
21-3243 2021
Res.    10-20- Authorizing the execution of a grant agreement with Romeoville Area Chamber of
21-3246 2021   Commerce, Inc.
Res.    10-20- Intergovernmental agreement with Valley View Community Unit School District no.
21-3247 2021   365U.
Res.    11-3-  Participation in the state bid contract for the supplying of bulk road salt for
21-3252 2021   the 2021/2022 fiscal year from Compass Minerals America.
Res.    11-3-  Awarding a contract to George’s Landscaping Incorporated.
21-3253 2021
Res.    11-3-  Authorizing the execution of a fireworks contract with Pyrotecnico Fireworks,
21-3256 2021   Inc.
Res.    11-3-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to the amended event security
21-3258 2021   services agreement with US Protection Agency, Inc.
Res.    11-17- Authorizing the execution of a laser show production contract with Laser
21-3257 2021   Encore, Inc.
Res.    12-1-  Approving a cost sharing agreement between the City of Lockport, Lewis
21-3267 2021   University and the village.
21-1748 12-15- Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment and financing agreement with
        2021   Bridge-Point Romeoville, LLC.
Res.    12-15- Authorizing the execution of a development agreement with PDC Chicago LPIV,
21-3270 2021   LLC.
Res.    1-5-   Approving a facility use agreement with Blue Chip Commerce, LLC.
21-3276 2022
Res.    1-5-   Authorizing a modification to a contract with Douglas Floor Covering, Inc.
22-3278 2022
Res.    1-19-  Authorizing a contract with U.S. Tennis Court Construction.
22-3283 2022
22-1750 2-2-   Granting a cable television franchise agreement with Comcast of Illinois, VI,
        2022   LLC.
Res.    2-2-   Authorizing an agreement with TBA LLC/The Brennan Agency, LLC.
22-3284 2022
Res.    2-2-   Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with Project ABC.
22-3288 2022
Res.    2-16-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to the Paymentus agreement.
22-3290 2022
Res.    2-16-  Authorizing an agreement with TBA, LLC/The Brennan Agency, LLC.
22-3292 2022
Res.    2-16-  Approving an addendum to a service agreement with Coverall North America, Inc.
22-3294 2022
Res.    2-16-  Approving a preliminary agreement regarding formation of a regional water
22-3296 2022   commission.
Res.    3-2-   Agreement with DocNetwork, Inc. (CampDocs).
22-3302 2022
Res.    3-2-   Agreement amending a deed restriction (Duke Reality Limited Partnership).
22-3303 2022
Res.    3-2-   Agreement with Prep Network, LLC.
22-3304 2022
Res.    3-2-   Agreement with Made Hoops, LLC.
22-3305 2022
Res.    3-2-   Agreement with BBM Financial (Romeoville Athletic and Event Center ATM).
22-3306 2022
Res.    3-16-  Awarding contract to Denler, Inc.
22-3308 2022
Res.    3-16-  Awarding contract to Jetco, Ltd.
22-3310 2022
Res.    3-16-  Agreement with Romeoville American Legion Post 52 (RAEC alcoholic and
22-3319 2022   nonalcoholic beverage sales - Time Out Terrace).
Res.    3-16-  Agreement with Concrete Booking, Inc.
22-3321 2022
Res.    3-16-  Agreement with Mallon and Associates, Inc.
22-3322 2022
Res.    4-6-   Agreement with the Conservation Foundation.
22-3326 2022
Res.    4-6-   Contract with Alliance Contractors, Inc.
22-3329 2022
Res.    4-6-   Approving extension of the contract with Builders Concrete, LLC.
22-3330 2022
Res.    4-6-   Contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
22-3331 2022
Res.    4-6-   Contract with Orange Crush, LLC.
22-3332 2022
Res.    4-6-   Contract with P.T. Ferro Construction Co.
22-3333 2022
Res.22- 4-6-   Agreement with Dewberry Architects, Inc.
3338    2022
22-1773 4-20-  Adopting successor collective bargaining agreements between the village and the
        2022   Romeoville Professional Fire Fighters Union I.A.F.F. Local #237.
Res.    4-20-  Execution of intergovernmental agreements with the State Department of
22-3349 2022   Transportation.
Res.    4-20-  Agreement with the state and the village.
22-3350 2022
Res.    5-4-   Contract with H&H Electric Company.
22-3357 2022
Res.    5-4-   Redevelopment agreement (Sammy S, LLC - Downtown Retail Center - 639 N.
22-3363 2022   Independence Boulevard).
Res.    5-18-  Agreement with The Band Perry Live, LLC.
22-3354 2022
Res.    5-18-  Amendment to a development agreement with 815 Independence, LLC; 765
22-3360 2022   Independence, LLC; and 753 Independence, LLC.
Res.    5-18-  Agreement with Prep Network, LLC.
22-3368 2022
Res.    5-18-  Terminating an Agreement with Inkd Apparel.
22-3369 2022
Res.    6-15-  License agreement with Romeoville JJ, LLC.
22-3382 2022
Res.    6-15-  Amendment to a contract with All Around Amusement, Inc.
22-3385 2022
Res.    6-15-  License agreement with Everstream.
22-3389 2022
Res.    7-6-   Agreement with Xerox.
22-3394 2022
Res.    8-17-  Agreement with Core and Main.
22-3399 2022
Res.    8-17-  Sponsorship agreement with Citgo Petroleum Corporation (Citgo-Romeofest, large
22-3404 2022   scale concert and holiday lights).
Res.    8-17-  Authorizing a contract with Comcast.
22-3409 2022
Res.    8-17-  Contract with Hoerr Construction, Inc.
22-3412 2022
Res.    8-17-  Contract with M&J Underground, Inc.
22-3413 2022
Res.    8-17-  Amended license agreement with Romeoville American Legion Post 52 (RAEC
22-3414 2022   alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverage sales - Time Out Terrace).
Res.    8-17-  Agreement with Noah Ferlisi Guthrie.
22-3419 2022
Res.    8-17-  License agreement with Lightning Event and Management, LLC.
22-3420 2022
Res.    8-17-  Economic incentive agreement with Windson Property Holdings, LLC.
22-3421 2022
Res.    8-17-  Contract with Builder’s Concrete.
22-3422 2022
Res.    8-17-  Agreement with BIG Gymnastics.
22-3424 2022
Res.    8-17-  Intergovernmental agreement with Village of Tinley Park and Romeoville Fire
22-3425 2022   Academy Tinley Campus.
Res.    8-17-  Intergovernmental agreement with Troy Fire Protection District and Romeoville
22-3426 2022   Fire Academy Troy Campus.
Res.    9-7-   Development agreement with Nottingham Ridge Homeowners Association.
22-3383 2022
Res.    9-7-   Contract with Environmental Systems Research (ESRI).
22-3430 2022
22-1795 9-7-   Amendment to an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Lemont.
        2022
Res.    9-7-   Contract with H&H Electric Company.
22-3437 2022
Res.    9-7-   Contract with Dahme Mechanical Industries.
22-3440 2022
Res.    9-7-   Contract with Len Cox & Sons Excavating.
22-3442 2022
Res.    9-7-   Contract with Tyler Technologies.
22-3443 2022
Res.    9-7-   Agreement with Point of Difference Strategies.
22-3444 2022
Res.    9-21-  Contract with Chicago Communications, LLC.
22-3445 2022
Res.    9-21-  Contract with Clauss Brothers, Inc.
22-3446 2022
Res.    9-21-  Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with Romeoville JJ, LLC.
22-3450 2022
Res.    10-5-  Agreement with Prep Network, LLC, a Minnesota limited liability company, d/b/
22-3451 2022   a Prep Hoops.
Res.    10-5-  Agreement with Omni Media, Inc., d/b/a The Home and Garden Shows.
22-3453 2022
Res.    10-5-  Economic incentive agreement with DJJ Chicago, LLC and Fields OPR, Inc.
22-3459 2022
22-1798 10-19- Agreement with 765 Independence, LLC.
        2022
Res.    10-19- Contract with CDW-G.
22-3460 2022
Res.    10-19- Contract with Axon Enterprise, Inc.
22-3461 2022
Res.    10-19- Interlocal agreement with Region 8 Education Service Center.
22-3463 2022
Res.    10-19- Agreement with BRC Global Canine Pedigrees, Inc.
22-3466 2022
Res.    10-19- Agreement with Caton Development, LLC.
22-3468 2022
Res.    11-2-  Contract with Austin Tyler Construction, Inc.
22-3469 2022
Res.    11-2-  Contracts and addenda with Pyrotecnico Fireworks, Inc.
22-3473 2022
Res.    11-2-  Amendment to a contract with All Around Amusement, Inc.
22-3475 2022
Res.    11-2-  Grant agreement with Citgo Petroleum Corporation.
22-3477 2022
Res.    11-15- Amendment to agreement with US Protection Agency, Inc.
22-3482 2022
Res.    11-15- Agreement with T&C Trapping.
22-3483 2022
Res.    11-15- Intergovernmental agreement with the Forest Preserve District of the county.
22-3486 2022
Res.    11-15- Intergovernmental agreement with County of Cook on behalf of the Cook County
22-3487 2022   Sheriff’s Office.
Res.    11-15- Development agreement with Viga Design Studio, LLC.
22-3489 2022
Res.    11-15- Participation in the state bid contract with Compass Minerals America, Inc.
22-3490 2022
Res.    11-15- Settlement agreement with Com Ed and Azavar.
22-3492 2022
Res.    11-15- Participation in the state bid contract with Cargill.
22-3495 2022
Res.    12-7-  Contract with StarGuard Elite, LLC.
22-3496 2022
Res.    12-7-  Amendment to an agreement with Johnson Controls.
22-3497 2022
Res.    12-7-  Modifying previously approved Res. 22-3490.
22-3501 2022
Res.    12-7-  Modifying previously approved Res. 22-3495.
22-3502 2022
Res.    1-4-   Agreement with Brycer, LLC.
23-3509 2023
Res.    1-4-   Agreement with Johnson Controls.
23-3511 2023
Res.    1-18-  Contract with Building Automation Solutions.
23-3518 2023
Res.    1-18-  Contract with Clarke Environmental Mosquito Management.
23-3519 2023
Res.    1-18-  Agreement with TBA, LLC/The Brennan Agency, LLC.
23-3520 2023
Res.    1-18-  Agreement with Pee Dee Country Enterprises, Inc.
23-3523 2023
23-1821 2-1-   Redevelopment and financing agreement with Palencia Properties, LLC.
        2023
Res.    2-15-  Contract with Pyrotecnico Fireworks, Inc.
23-3530 2023
Res.    2-15-  Contract with P.T. Ferro Construction Co.
23-3536 2023
Res.    2-15-  Agreement with Hitchcock Design Group.
23-3544 2023
23-1828 3-1-   Loan agreement between the village and the State Environmental Protection
        2023   Agency.
Res.    3-1-   Approving a first amendment to the preliminary agreement regarding formation of
23-3551 2023   a Regional Water Commission.
23-1835 3-15-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement for participation in the mutual aid
        2023   box alarm system.
Res.    3-15-  Authorization of an increase to Andritz’s contract for additional centrifuge
23-3556 2023   repairs.
Res.    3-15-  Intergovernmental agreement between the village and the Lemont Township Fire
23-3558 2023   Protection District.
Res.    3-15-  Exclusive rights negotiating agreement with Troutman and Dams, LLC.
23-3559 2023
Res.    3-15-  Third amendment to an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of
23-3560 2023   Bolingbrook.
Res.    3-15-  Contract with Robinson Engineering.
23-3562 2023
Res.    3-15-  Contract with J Russ and Company.
23-3564 2023
23-1848 4-19-  Execution and delivery of the amendment to bond and loan agreement dated July
        2023   1, 2018.
23-1849 4-19-  Reserving volume cap in connection with private activity bond issues.
        2023
Res.    4-19-  Waiving the formal bidding procedure and authorizing a contract for OpenGov for
23-3573 2023   Code Enforcement Software.
Res.    4-19-  Accepting a bid and entering into a two-year contract with Viso Graphics for
23-3574 2023   seasonal program brochures.
Res.    4-19-  Approving a memorandum of understanding with the Chicago FBI Regional Computer
23-3575 2023   Forensic Lab (RCFL).
Res.    4-19-  Agreement with Full Circle K9 Solutions, Inc. (dog training services
23-3576 2023   agreement).
Res.    4-19-  Intergovernmental agreement with City of Crest Hill (Pinnacle Drive and Renwick
23-3577 2023   Road Intersection Illuminated Street Signs).
Res.    4-19-  Accepting a proposal for construction engineering services from Robinson
23-3579 2023   Engineering for Phase I and II Romeo Crossing Park Construction Engineering
               Services.
Res.    4-19-  Accepting a proposal for Geotechnical Services from Geocon Professional
23-3580 2023   Services for Phase I and II Romeo Crossing Park Construction Engineering
               Services.
               Authorizing the approval of purchase orders for fiscal year 2023/2024 of over
Res.    4-19-  $20,000 for purchases of a routine nature, contractual obligations previously
23-3581 2023   approved by the Village Board, goods and services provided by sole suppliers,
               goods and services provided by system suppliers, exempt vendors and
               professional services provided previously approved by the Village Board.
Res.    4-19-  Authorizing the execution of a lease agreement with Central States Tower V,
23-3582 2023   LLC.
Res.    4-19-  Approving a development agreement (Highpoint Drive easements; Airport Road
23-3583 2023   donation agreement; IFC purchase agreement).
Res.    5-3-   Waiving the bid process, accepting the lowest proposal and entering into
23-3584 2023   contract with Builders Concrete, LLC for the 2023 Concrete Repair Program.
Res.    5-3-   Waiving the bid process, accepting the lowest proposal and entering into
23-3585 2023   contract with Orange Crush, LLC for the 2023 Hot-Mix Asphalt Program.
Res.    5-3-   Waiving the bid process, accepting the lowest proposal and entering into
23-3586 2023   contract with Orange Crush, LLC for the 2023 subdivision resurfacing project.
Res.    5-3-   Waiving the bid process, accepting the lowest proposal and entering into
23-3587 2023   contract with Orange Crush, LLC for the Village Hall parking lot resurfacing
               project.
Res.    5-3-   Authorizing an amendment to Tecorp, Inc. contract for additional coating of
23-3588 2023   airport road lift station.
Res.    5-3-   Authorizing the execution of an amendment to a grant agreement with Citgo
23-3589 2023   Petroleum Corporation (I and M/Centennial Trail Connections).
Res.    5-3-   Authorizing an amendment to Len Cox & Sons excavating contract for additional
23-3590 2023   repairs for the water main rehabilitation from Macon Avenue to post office.
Res.    5-3-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the price quote for Reinders for
23-3591 2023   the purchase of a 2023 TORO 5900 large area finishing mower.
Res.    5-3-   Awarding contract for the 2023 roadway crack sealing program.
23-3597 2023
Res.    5-3-   Awarding contract for the 2023/2024 street lighting maintenance program.
23-3598 2023
Res.    5-3-   Awarding contract for the Airport Road resurfacing project.
23-3599 2023
Res.    5-3-   Awarding contract for the Normantown Road frontage road project.
23-3600 2023
Res.    5-3-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a contract with P.T. Ferro for the
23-3601 2023   Fire Station no. 2 concrete pavement project.
Res.    5-3-   Waiving the bid process and awarding a contract to Southwest Town Mechanical
23-3603 2023   Services for the removal and replacement of rooftop heating and cooling unit
               #2.
Res.    5-17-  Approving a license agreement (Heidelberg Materials Midwest Agg, Inc. -
23-3592 2023   Locomotive Engine Placement); authorizing acceptance of locomotive transfer.
Res.    5-17-  Waiving the bids and approving an agreement with Core and Main as the sole
23-3605 2023   supplier of SENSUS water meters.
Res.    5-17-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
23-3606 2023   Industries for one return activated sludge (RAS) pump replacement.
Res.    5-17-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Monroe Truck
23-3607 2023   Equipment for the purchase of a new snow and ice control equipment to be
               installed on a new Kenworth Chassis.
Res.    5-17-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from CIT trucks for
23-3608 2023   the purchase of a 2024 Kenworth Single Axle Dump Truck Chassis.
Res.    5-17-  Approving a facility use agreement with Chicagoland Indoor Soccer, Inc.
23-3609 2023
Res.    5-17-  Approving a license agreement with Vinakom Communications.
23-3610 2023
Res.    5-17-  Waiving the bids and accepting a purchase agreement with MacQueen Equipment,
23-3611 2023   LLC.
Res.    5-17-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county (Weber Road, Gaskin
23-3612 2023   Drive and Grand Haven Circle Signal Maintenance).
Res.    6-7-   Approving a joint funding agreement with the State Department of Transportation
23-3615 2023   (IDOT) for the 135th Street from the Chicago Ship and Sanitary Canal Bridge to
               New Avenue resurfacing project.
Res.    6-7-   Approving a joint funding agreement with the State Department of Transportation
23-3616 2023   (IDOT) for the Crossroads Parkway to Montrose Drive resurfacing project.
Res.    6-7-   Approving a joint funding agreement with the State Department of Transportation
23-3617 2023   (IDOT) for the Normantown Road from Weber Road to 135th Street resurfacing
               project.
Res.    6-7-   Authorizing an amendment to P.T. Ferro Construction Company contract for
23-3621 2023   additional repairs for the bridge work associated with the I&M Centennial Trail
               connection project.
Res.    6-7-   Authorizing an amendment to Jetco, Ltd. contract for additional roof repairs to
23-3622 2023   the Fairfax Water Tower.
Res.    6-21-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract for CDW-G.
23-3623 2023
Res.    6-21-  Authorizing the purchase of classroom tables and chairs from Midwest Office,
23-3624 2023   Inc.
Res.    6-21-  Approving the performance of the ADA Compliance Program through the concrete
23-3625 2023   repair program.
Res.    6-21-  Authorizing the execution of a vending machine location agreement (Lean Green
23-3628 2023   Healthy Vending, Inc.).
Res.    6-21-  Authorizing the execution of a grant agreement - Romeoville Area Chamber of
23-3631 2023   Commerce, Inc.
Res.    7-19-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Kroll, LLC for property
23-3635 2023   appraisal services.
Res.    7-19-  Authorizing amendment to J. Russ and Company, Inc. for additional undercutting,
23-3636 2023   lime, stabilization and compaction for Romeo Crossing Park.
Res.    7-19-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract for Total
23-3638 2023   Automation Concepts, Inc.
Res.    7-19-  Approving a proposal from Wight & Company for schematic design through
23-3639 2023   construction administration professional services for Wesglen Park.
Res.    7-19-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from superior road
23-3640 2023   striping for the village’s road and pavement striping utilizing the county
               governmental league suburban purchasing program.
Res.    7-19-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from Denier, Inc. for
23-3641 2023   the placement of high-density mineral bond pavement surface treatment.
Res.    7-19-  Approving an agreement with Team63 Solutions, Inc. (Romeoville Athletic and
23-3643 2023   Event Center - Space Rental App).
Res.    8-16-  Authorizing a second amendment to a development agreement with 815
23-3645 2023   Independence, LLC; 765 Independence, LLC; and 753 Independence, LLC.
Res.    8-16-  Approving an agreement with the State Department of Transportation for the
23-3646 2023   appropriation of local match funds for the 135th Street resurfacing project.
Res.    8-16-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from Sutton Ford for the
23-3647 2023   purchase of 2024 Ford F350 four by four pickup.
Res.    8-16-  Authorizing the village to execute an agreement with Burns & McDonnell to
23-3649 2023   complete a water and sewer rate study.
Res.    9-6-   Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from J. Hassert
23-3654 2023   Landscaping for the installation of trees and landscape materials on Normantown
               Road islands.
Res.    9-6-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Indicom
23-3655 2023   Electric Co. for the installation of power pedestals for landscape lighting.
Res.    9-6-   Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from J. Hassert
23-3656 2023   Landscaping for the installation of a retaining wall and landscaping on Taylor
               Road and Troxel Avenue.
Res.    9-6-   Authorizing an amendment to J. Russ and Company, Inc. for additional removal
23-3657 2023   and replacement of unsuitable material for Romeo Crossing Park.
Res.    9-6-   Waiving the bid process and accept the proposal for the street lighting portion
23-3661 2023   of the I&M canal trail connection project.
Res.    9-6-   Authorizing an agreement for the installation of traffic signals at the
23-3662 2023   intersection with Weber Road (CH 88) and the commercial access in the county.
Res.    9-6-   Amending the agreement providing for redevelopment and financing of certain
23-3663 2023   improvements dated 10-19-2022 between the village and 765 Independence, LLC.
Res.    9-6-   Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from Stewart Spreading
23-3664 2023   for cleaning of the village’s aerobic digester at the North Treatment Plant in
               fiscal year 2024/2025.
Res.    9-6-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Optical
23-3665 2023   Illusion, Ltd. for the LED lighting at Village Hall.
Res.    9-6-   Authorizing the execution of a laser show production contract with Laser
23-3666 2023   Encore, Inc.
Res.    9-6-   Authorizing the execution of a fireworks contracts and addenda with Pyrotecnico
23-3667 2023   Fireworks, Inc.
Res.    9-6-   Authorizing an amendment to an economic incentive agreement between the village
23-3668 2023   and Romeoville JJ, LLC.
Res.    10-4-  Accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a contract with Institution
23-3669 2023   Technologies USA, LLC for the 2023 storm sewer cured-in-place project.
Res.    10-4-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from J. Hassert
23-3670 2023   Landscaping for the landscape repair and enhancement on the Normantown and
               Frontage Road Island.
Res.    10-4-  Approving a license agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America
23-3671 2023   (NGPLA Right-of- Way - Molto Sewer Crossing).
Res.    10-4-  Authorizing a parking lot agreement (Joliet Junior College – Romeoville
23-3673 2023   Campus).
Res.    10-4-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from J. Hassert
23-3674 2023   Landscaping for the installation of trees and landscape material on Grand
               Boulevard.
Res.    10-4-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract for OpenGov, Inc.
23-3675 2023   for permit and licensing software.
Res.    10-4-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Indicom
23-3676 2023   Electric Co. for the Deer Crossing Park additional power pedestals for
               landscape lighting, pavilion and front of Village Hall.
Res.    10-4-  Approving an amendment to an exclusive rights negotiating agreement with
23-3678 2023   Troutman and Dams, LLC - Route 53/Romeo Road parcels.
Res.    10-4-  Waiving the bidding requirements and approving additional funding for the
23-3679 2023   purchase of SENSUS water meters from Core and Main.
Res.    10-4-  Accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a contract with Schroeder
23-3680 2023   Asphalt Services, Inc. for the I&M canal and Old Romeo Road trail connection
               project.
Res.    10-4-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from J. Hassert
23-3681 2023   Landscaping for the installation of trees and landscape materials on Weber Road
               between Normantown and Grand Boulevard.
Res.    10-4-  Accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a contract with H&H Electric
23-3682 2023   for the traffic signal installation at the intersection of Airport Road and
               Pinnacle Drive.
Res.    10-18- Authorizing the execution of an amended license agreement with Romeoville
23-3687 2023   American Legion Post 52 (RAEC alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverage sales - time
               out terrace).
Res.    10-18- Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Arbor Tek for
23-3689 2023   the restoration of trees and turf in Green Haven and Lakewood Falls locations.
Res.    10-18- Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from V3
23-3690 2023   Construction Group for the restoration of Lily Cache Slough and Boucher Prairie
               Slough.
Res.    10-18- Waiving the bid purchase for the purchase of a 2023 4Runner from Romeoville
23-3691 2023   Toyota.
Res.    11-1-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county (maintenance and
23-3697 2023   energy of traffic signals at the intersection of Weber Road (CH88), Grand
               Boulevard and N. Carillon Drive in the county).
Res.    11-1-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county (maintenance and
23-3698 2023   energy of traffic signals at the intersection of Weber Road (CH88) and
               Highpoint Drive in the county).
Res.    11-1-  Awarding the sanitary sewer lateral lining pilot project.
23-3699 2023
Res.    11-15- Participation in the state bid contract for the supplying of bulk road salt for
23-3702 2023   the 2023/2024 fiscal year with Cargill contract.
Res.    11-15- Amending Res. 23-3689 the Arbor Tek proposal for restoration of trees and turf.
23-3704 2023
Res.    11-15- Waiving the bidding process and accepting a quote from Smith Painting Services,
23-3706 2023   Inc. for additional floor grit and epoxy at the aquatic center building.
Res.    11-15- Approving a proposal from Hitchcock Design Group for schematic design,
23-3707 2023   construction phase services and engineering services through construction
               administration professional services for Romeo Crossing Phase III.
Res.    11-15- Purchase of a 2024 Toyota RAV4 from Romeoville Toyota.
23-3708 2023
Res.    11-15- Authorizing the execution of an agreement with Blue Sunset, LLC.
23-3709 2023
        12-6-  Adopting successor collective bargaining agreement between the village and
23-1885 2023   American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Council
               31.
Res.    12-6-  Approving an agreement with Thriveworks Administrative Services, LLC
23-3712 2023   (counseling services availability to village residents).
Res.    12-6-  Approving a proposal from Spohn Ranch, Inc. for schematic design, construction
23-3714 2023   phase services and engineering services for volunteer park pipeline skate park
               development.
Res.    12-6-  Approving the execution of a lease with Commonwealth Edison Company
23-3719 2023   (Recreational Trails - Conservation Park to Pinnacle Business Park; Weber Road
               to Route 53).
Res.    12-6-  Authorizing intergovernmental agreement between the village and the Braidwood
23-3720 2023   Fire Protection District.
Res.    12-6-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with Orland Park Fire Protection
23-3721 2023   District.
Res.    12-20- Approving an amusements contract (All Around Amusement, Inc. - Romeofest
23-3723 2023   Contract).
Res.    12-20- Authorizing the execution of an event security services agreement (United
23-3724 2023   States Protection Agency, Inc. - Romeofest Security - 2024 event).
Res.    12-20- Waiving the bidding process and awarding a contract to Sportsfields, Inc. for
23-3725 2023   infield restoration work at various ball diamonds.
Res.    12-20- Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from J5 Rescue
23-3726 2023   Supply, LLC.
Res.    12-20- Authorizing an economic incentive agreement with the village and Windson
23-3729 2023   Property Holdings, LLC.
Res.    1-17-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
24-3731 2024   Industries for the upgrade and modernization of six sewage lift stations.
Res.    1-17-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
24-3732 2024   Industries for a New Lakewood South Lift Station Pump.
Res.    1-17-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing the purchase from CDW-G of
24-3734 2024   SonicWALL firewall.
Res.    1-17-  Approving an agreement with Flock Group, Inc. for LPR cameras.
24-3735 2024
Res.    1-17-  Authorizing a waiver of bidding process and authorizing a purchase agreement
24-3737 2024   with Axon Enterprise, Inc. (vehicle cameras; software licenses).
Res.    2-7-   Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a purchase from Total
24-3738 2024   Automation Concepts, Inc. for CCTV Cameras for Public Works South Plant.
Res.    2-7-   Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a purchase from Total
24-3739 2024   Automation Concepts for CCTV cameras at Romeo Crossing Park.
Res.    2-7-   Waiving the bidding process and accepting the updated sludge hauling and bio-
24-3740 2024   solids management program contract with Stewart Spreading.
Res.    2-7-   Waiving the bidding requirements and utilizing the state bid contract for the
24-3742 2024   purchase of two 2023 Ford F-150 police responders.
Res.    2-21-  Approving an agreement with the American Red Cross (lifeguard training
24-3744 2024   services).
Res.    3-6-   Authorizing a contract for Constellation Telecom for telephone service.
24-3745 2024
Res.    3-6-   Waiving the bidding process and accepting the lowest proposal and entering a
24-3747 2024   contract with Steve Spiess Construction for a new 12-inch water main
               installation along 135th Street from Post Office to Route 53 project.
Res.    3-6-   Approving and authorizing the execution of a severance agreement and release.
24-3748 2024
24-1904 3-20-  Adopting successor collective bargaining agreement between the village and
        2024   Metropolitan Alliance of Police (Romeoville Chapter).
        3-20-  Authorizing Northern Illinois Gas Company (d/b/a Nicor Gas Company) its
24-1908 2024   successors and assigns to construct, operate and maintain a gas distributing
               system in and through the village.
Res.    3-20-  Authorizing the village to accept the service proposal from Sikich, LLP for
24-3751 2024   professional audit services for the audit of fiscal years ending 2024, 2025 and
               2026 with village options for fiscal year ending 2027 and 2028.
Res.    3-20-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement (Long Grove Fire Protection
24-3752 2024   District).
Res.    3-20-  Approving a task order from Strand Engineering to provide engineering
24-3753 2024   assistance to staff regarding structural rehabilitation to the existing
               Normantown Road water storage tank.
Res.    3-20-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract for Total
24-3756 2024   Automation Concepts, Inc. for CCTV cameras at Boucher Park.
Res.    3-20-  Waiving the bids and authorizing the purchase of give cameras from Flock
24-3758 2024   Safety.
Res.    3-20-  Approving an agreement for technical services with Strand Associates, Inc.
24-3759 2024
Res.    4-3-   Authorizing Lisa Allen and Mike Braasch to enter into contract and/or
24-3755 2024   agreements on behalf of the village for the roadway salt program.
Res.    4-3-   Approving an exclusive negotiating rights agreement with Eleven Thirteen
24-3762 2024   Investments, Inc.
Res.    4-3-   Waiving the bid process and authorizing the rechassis/remount 2018 Osage
24-3763 2024   Ambulance with a 2024 E Chassis Remount Osage Warrior from North Central
               Emergency Vehicles.
Res.    4-3-   Authorizing the execution of a consent to a collateral agreement of
24-3765 2024   redevelopment and upper gateway financing agreement by and among Providence
               Bank and Trust (lender); Abbott Land Gateway, LLC (developer); and the village.
               Authorizing the approval of purchase orders for fiscal year 2024/2025 of over
Res.    4-17-  $20,000 for purchases of a routine nature, contractual obligations previously
24-3767 2024   approved by the Village Board, goods and services provided by sole suppliers,
               goods and services provided by system suppliers, exempt vendors and
               professional services provided previously approved by the Village Board.
Res.    4-17-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the price quotes from Deere &
24-3769 2024   Company for the purchase of a John Deere mower replacement and declaring the
               trade of a John Deere 997.
Res.    4-17-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the price quote from Estream
24-3770 2024   Clean to soft wash stone/brick and clean exterior windows at Village Hall and
               Police Department.
Res.    4-17-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement for the Multi-Agency Special
24-3773 2024   Enforcement Team (MSET).
Res.    5-1-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from CIT trucks for
24-3776 2024   the purchase of a 2025 T480 Kenworth single-axle dump truck chassis.
Res.    5-1-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Monroe Truck
24-3777 2024   Equipment for the purchase of a upfitter dump body and new snow and ice control
               equipment to be installed on a 2025 Kenworth chassis.
Res.    5-1-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Rod Baker Ford
24-3778 2024   for the purchase of five Ford Interceptor police squad vehicles.
Res.    5-1-   Waiving the bids and approving an agreement with Core and Main as the sole
24-3779 2024   supplier of SENSUS water meters.
Res.    5-1-   Waiving the bid process and entering into a professional service contract with
24-3780 2024   Applied Research Associates to perform pavement condition surveys.
Res.    5-1-   Waiving the bid process and entering into professional service contracts with
24-3781 2024   Gonzalez Companies, LLC for bridge inspections.
Res.    5-1-   Waiving the bid process and entering into contract with P.T. Ferro Construction
24-3782 2024   Company for bridge maintenance work.
Res.    5-1-   Approving a task order from Strand Engineering for the planning and design
24-3784 2024   services for the Lake Water Supply Modifications.
Res.    5-1-   Waiving the bid process, accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a
24-3785 2024   contract for the 2024 hot-mix asphalt program.
Res.    5-1-   Approving the extension of the concrete repair program with builders concrete.
24-3786 2024
Res.    5-1-   Waiving the bid process, accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a
24-3787 2024   contract for the 2024 subdivision resurfacing project.
Res.    5-1-   Approving an amendment to the professional services agreement proposal from
24-3788 2024   Hitchcock Design Group for Romeo Crossing Phase III.
Res.    5-1-   Authorizing an agreement with Livebarn, Inc.
24-3789 2024
Res.    5-15-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal for professional services
24-3793 2024   from ME Simpson for a water loss control program.
Res.    5-15-  Agreement to incorporate LED street name signs and EVP equipment into the State
24-3794 2024   Department of Transportation’s Route 53 and Renwick Road intersection project.
Res.    5-15-  Awarding the contract for the Normantown Road 500,000-gallon water reservoir
24-3796 2024   rehabilitation project.
Res.    5-15-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
24-3797 2024   Industries for one raw sewage pump replacement.
Res.    5-15-  Approving a proposal from Artistic Holiday Designs for the purchasing, leasing
24-3799 2024   and installation of additional holiday lights and decorations for 2024.
Res.    5-15-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Alta Equipment
24-3800 2024   for the purchase of a 2024 Kubota RTV-X1100CWL-H.
Res.    5-15-  Waiving the bid process and authorizing the purchase of an enclosed trailer
24-3801 2024   fully equipped with Paratech Rescue Equipment from Paratech.
Res.    5-15-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Water Well
24-3802 2024   Solutions for emergency well repairs at well #13.
Res.    5-15-  Waiving the bid process and authorizing the purchase of additional equipment
24-3803 2024   and amenities for Romeo Crossing Community Park Project Phase III.
Res.    5-15-  Awarding the bid for the Romeo Crossing Community Park Project Phase III.
24-3804 2024
Res.    5-15-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county for animal control
24-3805 2024   services.
Res.    6-12-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
24-3808 2024   Industries for one return activated sludge (RAS) pump replacement.
Res.    6-12-  Approving a task order from Stand Engineering to provide engineering assistance
24-3809 2024   to staff regarding the New Independence Boulevard PRV station.
Res.    6-12-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal utilizing the
24-3810 2024   sourcewell contract from Shorewood Home and Auto for the purchase of a 2024
               John Deere TE electric utility vehicle.
Res.    6-12-  Authorizing a parking lot agreement (Joliet Junior College - Romeoville
24-3811 2024   Campus).
Res.    6-12-  Authorizing an amended and restated concession stand license agreement
24-3812 2024   (Lightning Event and Management, LLC - Volunteer Park, Century Park, Romeoville
               Athletic and Event Center and Snack Shack - Recreation Center).
Res.    6-12-  Approving a cost-sharing agreement between the City of Lockport, the village
24-3813 2024   and Forest Preserve District of the County for I&M Canal Path costs.
Res.    6-12-  Approving an MOU with Workforce Center of Will County.
24-3814 2024
Res.    6-12-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract for Total
24-3815 2024   Automation Concepts, Inc. for CCTV server and camera replacement.
Res.    6-12-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
24-3816 2024   Industries for one in-line grinder pump.
Res.    6-12-  Waiving the bid requirements and accepting the proposals from Denler, Inc. for
24-3819 2024   the placement of high-density mineral bond pavement surface treatment.
Res.    6-12-  Approving a codification agreement with American Legal Publishing.
24-3821 2024
Res.    6-12-  Authorizing a third amendment to an intergovernmental agreement with the
24-3823 2024   Village of Bolingbrook (engineering cost sharing for Phase I engineering for I-
               55 interchanges at Illinois Route 126 and Airport Road).
Res.    6-12-  Authorizing the execution of a severance and release agreement with Shannon
24-3825 2024   Schorie.
Res.    6-12-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement between the village and county for the
24-3826 2024   maintenance and energy of traffic signals at the intersection of Renwick Road
               (CH36), and Gaylor Road in the county.
Res.    6-12-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Rod Baker Ford
24-3827 2024   for the purchase of a 2024 Ford F550 one-ton dump truck chassis.
Res.    6-12-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Chicago Parts
24-3829 2024   and Sound, LLC and CDW-G for the purchase and installation of equipment to
               upfit five new police interceptors.
Res.    6-12-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Axon
24-3830 2024   Enterprises for the purchase of fleet vehicle camera systems and enter into a
               multi-year contract for services for the five new police interceptors.
Res.    6-12-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Monroe Truck
24-3832 2024   equipment utilizing the sourcewell contract for the purchase of a dump body and
               snow and ice control equipment to be installed on a 2024 Ford F550 chassis.
               Establishing the Grand Prairie Water Commission, approving an intergovernmental
24-1924 6-26-  agreement and a water supply agreement, appointing representatives to the
        2024   Commission and authorizing approval of bylaws and a program management
               agreement.
Res.    6-26-  Waiving the bidding requirements and authorizing the purchase of a Pierce
24-3834 2024   Velocity HDR Walk-In Heavy Rescue Squad from MacQueen Equipment, LLC.
Res.    6-26-  Approving an agreement with Meirtran, Inc. (Romeoville Athletic and Event
24-3836 2024   Center - ATM).
Res.    6-26-  Approving a proposal from Wight & Company for schematic design through
24-3839 2024   construction administration professional services for a new concession building
               at Village Park.
Res.    6-26-  Approving a proposal from Wight & Company for schematic design through
24-3840 2024   construction administration professional services for playground redevelopment
               at Hampton Park.
Res.    6-26-  Awarding the contract for the 2024 roadway crack sealing program.
24-3842 2024
Res.    6-26-  Approving a task order from Robinson Engineering, Ltd. to provide engineering
24-3843 2024   assistance to staff regarding manhole inspections and program management.
Res.    6-26-  Approving a task order from Robinson Engineering, Ltd. to provide engineering
24-3844 2024   assistance to staff regarding smoke testing and program management.
Res.    6-26-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Spiess
24-3845 2024   Construction for the emergency replacement of the storm sewer at the
               intersection of McKool Avenue and Gordon Avenue.
Res.    6-26-  Approving the professional services from V3 Construction Group for the
24-3846 2024   ecological management, monitoring and reporting.
Res.    6-26-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal to enter into a
24-3847 2024   contract with Bachman Commercial for the purchase of three 2024 Chevrolet Tahoe
               PPVs.
Res.    7-17-  Authorizing an economic incentive agreement (Sable Creek Winery, LLC).
24-3850 2024
Res.    7-17-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal to enter into a
24-3852 2024   contract with Romeoville Toyota for the purchase of a 2024 Toyota Rav 4.
Res.    7-17-  Awarding the contract for the Hampton Park Sub 5 Watermain Improvements to J
24-3853 2024   Congdon Sewer Service.
Res.    7-17-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal from PT Ferro for the 2024
24-3854 2024   Fire Station no. 2 concrete pavement project.
Res.    7-17-  Approving a task order from Robinson Engineering to provide construction
24-3855 2024   engineering on the Hampton Park Subdivision 5 water main improvement project.
Res.    8-21-  Authorizing the execution of an agreement with NIU Center for Governmental
24-3856 2024   Studies to facilitate the completion of a multi-year village strategic plan and
               parks and recreation master plan.
Res.    8-21-  Approving a license agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America
24-3857 2024   (NGPLA Right-of- Way – Mercedes Dealership).
Res.    8-21-  Approving a facility use agreement with BIG Gymnastics.
24-3858 2024
Res.    8-21-  Approving a facility use agreement with 3 Step Sports, LLC.
24-3859 2024
Res.    8-21-  Authorizing the execution of a grant agreement - Romeoville Area Chamber of
24-3860 2024   Commerce, Inc.
Res.    8-21-  Waiving the bid process and authorizing a contract with Ethos Workshop
24-3861 2024   Architects for architectural and engineering services for the interior buildout
               of the village space at the Ovation Center.
Res.    8-21-  Waiving the bid process and authorizing a contract for the purchase of one 78-
24-3862 2024   foot by 104-foot steel sided building with Wick Buildings.
Res.    8-21-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Currie Motors
24-3863 2024   for the purchase of a 2025 Ford Explorer utilizing the suburban purchasing
               cooperative.
Res.    8-21-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
24-3864 2024   Industries for the upgrade and modernization of two sewage lift stations.
Res.    8-21-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from Superior Road
24-3871 2024   striping for village’s road and pavement striping utilizing the county
               governmental league suburban purchasing program.
Res.    8-21-  Approving an agreement with Braniff Communications for the relocation of the
24-3872 2024   outdoor warning siren at the Mercedes Development.
Res.    8-21-  Approving an agreement with LDV specialty vehicles for camera system upgrades
24-3873 2024   in the mobile command post.
Res.    8-21-  Approving an updated ordinance enforcement agreement.
24-3874 2024
Res.    8-21-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to grant agreement between the
24-3875 2024   village and Senior Services of Will County, Inc.
Res.    8-21-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Currie Motors
24-3878 2024   for the purchase of a 2025 Ford F150 pickup utilizing the suburban purchasing
               cooperative.
Res.    8-21-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Martin Cement
24-3880 2024   for the concrete floor for the new building at Public Works’ Budler Road site.
Res.    8-21-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposals from fleet safety
24-3881 2024   supply for the purchase and installation of equipment to upfit three Fire
               Department vehicles.
Res.    8-21-  Authorizing an economic incentive agreement (PMAT Romeo, LLC).
24-3882 2024
Res.    9-4-   Authorizing an increase to the I&M canal multi- use path project contract with
24-3865 2024   Indicom Electric Co., LLC.
Res.    9-4-   Approving an easement agreement (Banc One Building Corporation).
24-3886 2024
Res.    9-4-   Waiving the bidding requirement and purchase a Mako Air Module Compressor from
24-3887 2024   Air One Equipment, Inc.
Res.    9-4-   Awarding contract for the 135th Street decorative lighting project from Weber
24-3888 2024   Road to Independence Boulevard to Utility Dynamics Corporation.
Res.    9-4-   Authorizing a settlement agreement with Jon Ibrahim.
24-3890 2024
Res.    9-4-   Approving a mutual aid agreement between the village, Bolingbrook and
24-3891 2024   Plainfield for police protection during a special event.
Res.    9-18-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract for glacier
24-3893 2024   computer.
Res.    9-18-  Authorizing the execution of a firework display contract with Pyrotecnico
24-3896 2024   Fireworks, Inc.
Res.    9-18-  Authorizing the execution of a laser show production contract with Laser
24-3897 2024   Encore, Inc.
Res.    9-18-  Authorizing the execution of a redevelopment agreement (Romeo Center Plaza).
24-3898 2024
Res.    10-2-  Approving a proposal from Wight & Company for schematic design through
24-3899 2024   construction administration professional services for Jungle Safari renovation.
Res.    10-2-  Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with Romeoville American
24-3901 2024   Legion Post 52 (alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverage sales - village park).
Res.    10-16- Authorizing the termination of a the non-exclusive cable television franchise
24-3902 2024   agreement with CMN- RUS, Inc. (Metronet).
Res.    10-16- Approving a facility use agreement with Prep Network, LLC.
24-3905 2024
Res.    10-16- Awarding the contract for 2024 sanitary manhole rehabilitation project.
24-3907 2024
Res.    10-16- Waiving the bidding process and utilizing the Suburban Purchasing Cooperative
24-3908 2024   proposal from Al Warren Oil Co, Inc. for the purchase of all gasoline and
               diesel fuel.
Res.    10-16- Participation in the state bid contract for the supplying of bulk road salt for
24-3909 2024   the 2024/2025 fiscal year with Morton Salt.
Res.    10-16- Participation in the state bid contract for the supplying of bulk road salt for
24-3910 2024   the 2024/2025 fiscal year with Compass Minerals.
Res.    10-16- Approving an agreement with the State Department of Transportation for the
24-3911 2024   Lower Industrial BP Rebuilding Illinois Funding.
Res.    10-16- Approving an agreement with Robinson Engineering for the Lower Industrial BP
24-3912 2024   Rebuilding Illinois Funding.
Res.    10-16- Approving an exclusive negotiating rights agreement with Romeoville Development
24-3914 2024   Partners, LLC.
Res.    11-6-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a purchase from Total
24-3916 2024   Automation Concepts, Inc.
Res.    11-6-  Approving an amusements contract (All Around Amusement, Inc. - Romeofest
24-3917 2024   contract).
Res.    11-6-  Approving the lease and purchase of a new postage machine for the Village Hall
24-3919 2024   with Pitney Bowes.
Res.    11-6-  Authorizing the purchase of computer equipment from Dell.
24-3920 2024
Res.    11-6-  Awarding the contract for a New Independence Boulevard pressure reducing
24-3922 2024   station.
Res.    11-6-  Waiving the bidding requirements and approving change order #1 for additional
24-3925 2024   manhole repairs with Kim Construction Company, Inc.
Res.    11-6-  Authorizing the purchase of four LUCAS chest compression systems with
24-3926 2024   accessories from Stryker.
Res.    11-6-  Accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a contract with Insituform
24-3927 2024   Technologies, LLC for the 2024 storm sewer cured-in-place project.
Res.    11-20- Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
24-3930 2024   Industries for a new Carillon Lift Station Pump.
Res.    11-20- Approving an agreement with the State Department of Transportation for the
24-3931 2024   appropriation of local match funds for the highpoint drive resurfacing project.
Res.    11-20- Approving an agreement with the State Department of Transportation for the use
24-3933 2024   of MFT Funds for the 135th Street resurfacing project.
Res.    12-4-  Authorizing a sponsorship/naming rights agreement with Thomas Motors of Joliet,
24-3937 2024   Inc., d/b/a Romeoville Toyota (Deer Crossing Park).
Res.    12-4-  Approving a legislative district office space lease with the State House of
24-3938 2024   Representatives.
Res.    12-4-  Approving a legislative district office space lease with the State House of
24-3939 2024   Representatives.
Res.    12-4-  Authorizing the execution of a facility use agreement with Precision Arts
24-3941 2024   Challenge.
24-1955 12-18- Authorizing delivery of consent to assignment of redevelopment agreement
        2024   (Palencia Properties, LLC to DPIF4 IL 13 Pinnacle, LLC).
24-1956 12-18- Authorizing the creation and execution of an automatic mutual aid agreement.
        2024
Res.    12-18- Waiving the bid process and accepting the price quote from H2I Group for the
24-3942 2024   material and freight of facility armor court tiles at the Athletic and Event
               Center.
Res.    12-18- Authorizing the execution of an event security services agreement (US
24-3943 2024   Protection Agency, Inc. - Romeofest Security - 2025 event).
Res.    12-18- Approving a facility use agreement with Chicagoland Indoor Soccer, Inc., an
24-3945 2024   Illinois corporation.
Res.    12-18- Approving the price increase from USSI Rentals for the service body final build
24-3946 2024   of the mechanics service body on the previously ordered 2023 F550 Chassis.
Res.    12-18- Awarding contract for the multi-use path connections to Maneval Construction
24-3947 2024   Company, Inc.
Res.    12-18- Approving a task order from Robinson Engineering to provide construction
24-3948 2024   engineering assistance to staff regarding the multi-use path connection
               project.
Res.    12-18- Waiving of bids for a 14-passenger bus for the Parks and Recreation Department
24-3951 2024   with Best Bus Sales.
Res.    12-18- Waiving of bids to accept a sales proposal for new fitness equipment from
24-3952 2024   Direct Fitness Solutions, LLC.
Res.    1-15-  Approving a professional service task order from Strand Engineering for
25-3954 2025   additional services on the phase 2 optimal corrosion control study.
Res.    2-5-   Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract for wireless
25-3961 2025   networking equipment from Data Center Warehouse.
Res.    2-5-   Waiving the bidding requirements and approving additional funding for the
25-3962 2025   purchase of SENSUS water meters from Core and Main.
Res.    2-5-   Authorizing an agreement with Team63 Solutions, Inc.
25-3964 2025
Res.    2-5-   Approving an exclusive negotiating rights agreement with Eleven Thirteen
25-3965 2025   Investments, Inc.
25-1966 2-19-  Authorizing loan agreement for the public water supply loan program for the
        2025   five-year water main replacement program.
25-1967 2-19-  Authorizing a loan agreement (water pollution control loan program).
        2025
25-1970 2-19-  Approving execution of an amendment to an intergovernmental agreement dated
        2025   September 2, 2020 with the Village of Lemont.
Res.    2-19-  Waiving the bidding requirements and purchase 32 APXN70 portable radios.
25-3967 2025
Res.    2-19-  Approving a water main, storm sewer and sanitary sewer utility operation and
25-3968 2025   maintenance agreement.
Res.    2-19-  Approving a task order from Robinson Engineering to provide construction
25-3969 2025   engineering for the village’s five-year water main replacement program - year
               one.
Res.    2-19-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal for fertilizer and
25-3971 2025   weed control services from Trugreen.
Res.    3-5-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the contract for landscape
25-3970 2025   maintenance from J Hassert Landscape, Inc.
Res.    3-5-   Accepting the lowest proposal and enter into a contract with Jetco, Ltd. for
25-3973 2025   the 1,000,000-gallon Taylor Road water tower painting project.
Res.    3-5-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the contract for J. Congdon
25-3974 2025   Sewer Service to install a new water service line at RC Hill Elementary School.
Res.    3-5-   Accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a contract with Abbey
25-3975 2025   Construction for the Village Hall parking lot expansion project.
Res.    3-5-   Approving a task order from Strand Engineering to provide engineering
25-3977 2025   construction services for the 1,000,000-gallon Taylor Road water tower
               rehabilitation.
Res.    3-5-   Waiving the bids and approving an agreement for skate park construction with
25-3979 2025   Spohn Ranch Skateparks.
Res.    3-19-  Waiving the bidding process and approve the proposal from McCahill Painting to
25-3981 2025   paint the training tower located at 1321 Enterprise Drive.
Res.    3-19-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement for participation in the Illinois
25-3983 2025   Public Works Mutual Aid Network (IPWMAN).
Res.    3-19-  Authorizing the village to execute a release of all claims (Clarke Overspray
25-3986 2025   Claim).
25-1975 4-2-   Approving the transfer and reallocation of volume cap in connection with
        2025   private activity bond issue and related matters.
Res.    4-2-   Approving a task order from Robinson Engineering to provide construction
25-3987 2025   engineering for Village Hall lot expansion project.
Res.    4-2-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Water Well
25-3988 2025   Solutions for emergency repairs and test pumping on well #11.
Res.    4-2-   Approving a consulting services agreement (human resources/employment
25-3989 2025   consulting).
Res.    4-2-   Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with the Forest Preserve District of
25-3990 2025   the county.
Res.    4-2-   Waiving the bid process and accepting the agreement by Cintas for the supplying
25-3992 2025   and maintenance of uniforms for the Parks and Recreation Department.
Res.    4-16-  Waiving the bidding process and approving the quote from MES for the purchase
25-3993 2025   of 3M Scott Fire and Safety Air-Pak XD SCBA replacement self- contained
               breathing apparatus (SCBA) for the Fire Department.
Res.    4-16-  Authorizing a concession stand license agreement (Deer Crossing Park - The
25-3994 2025   Bambini Group, LLC).
Res.    4-16-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
25-3995 2025   Industries for the repair of pump #2 at the Woods Lift Station.
Res.    4-16-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Sutton Ford
25-3996 2025   for the purchase of 2025 Ford F350 Pickup.
Res.    4-16-  Approving a water main, storm sewer and sanitary sewer utility operation and
25-3997 2025   maintenance agreement.
Res.    4-16-  Authorizing a development agreement with Romeo Town Center Holdings, LLC.
25-3998 2025
Res.    4-16-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from S&J Door, Inc.
25-3999 2025   to furnish and install four new overhead doors at the REMA site.
Res.    4-16-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the lowest proposal and entering
25-4001 2025   into a contract for the 2025 concrete repair program.
Res.    4-16-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the lowest proposal and entering
25-4002 2025   into a contract for the 2025 hot-mix asphalt program.
Res.    4-16-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the lowest proposal and entering
25-4003 2025   into a contract for the 2025 subdivision resurfacing project.
Res.    4-16-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the lowest proposal and entering
25-4004 2025   into a contract for the Police Department parking lot resurfacing project.
Res.    4-16-  Approving the professional services from Geocon Professional Services for the
25-4006 2025   Lukancic Receiving and Pumping Station Project.
               Authorizing the approval of purchase orders for fiscal year 2025-2026 for
Res.    4-16-  purchases of a routine nature, contractual obligations previously approved by
25-4007 2025   the Village Board, goods and services provided by sole suppliers, good and
               services provided by system suppliers, exempt vendors and professional services
               provided previously approved by the Village Board.
Res.    5-7-   Accepting a bid and entering into a two-year contract with Schumann Printers,
25-4010 2025   Inc. for seasonal program brochures.
Res.    5-7-   Approving a service task order from Robinson Engineering for storm sewer
25-4012 2025   rehabilitation design and the 2025 inflow and infiltration reduction program.
Res.    5-7-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
25-4013 2025   Industries for a new Windham Lakes lift station pump.
Res.    5-7-   Awarding the contract for the 2025/2026 traffic signal maintenance program.
25-4014 2025
Res.    5-7-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Monroe Truck
25-4015 2025   Equipment for the purchase of an Arbortech Forestry Box on a hook lift skid.
Res.    5-7-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Rod Baker Ford
25-4016 2025   for the purchase of two 2025 Ford Ranger 4x4 Super Crew Pick- ups.
Res.    5-7-   Waiving the bidding requirements and approving the purchase of water meters
25-4018 2025   from Core and Main as the sole supplier of SENSUS water meters.
Res.    5-7-   Accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a contract with Spiess
25-4019 2025   Construction for the Rec Center Woods force main and water main replacement.
Res.    5-7-   Waiving the bidding requirement and purchasing six APXN70 portable radios.
25-4021 2025
Res.    5-7-   Approving a service agreement with Citywide Building Maintenance for janitorial
25-4023 2025   services at the Romeoville Athletic and Event Center.
Res.    5-7-   Approving a license agreement with DS Partners, LLC (use of 135th Street vacant
25-4025 2025   parcel).
Res.    5-7-   Authorizing the execution of an employment agreement with Dawn M. Caldwell.
25-4026 2025
Res.    5-21-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Rod Baker Ford
25-4020 2025   for the purchase of two 2025 Ford Police Interceptors.
Res.    5-21-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal for professional
25-4028 2025   services from ME Simpson Company for the annual water loss control program.
Res.    5-21-  Approving a task order from Strand Engineering to provide engineering services
25-4029 2025   for the update of the village’s risk and resiliency and cybersecurity
               assessments.
Res.    5-21-  Approving the professional services from V3 Construction Group for the
25-4031 2025   ecological management, monitoring and reporting.
Res.    5-21-  Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement with Valley View School District
25-4032 2025   365U (RC Hill School water main relocation).
Res.    5-21-  Approving a service task order from Robinson Engineering for the Recreation
25-4033 2025   Center water main and force main replacement project.
Res.    5-21-  Waiving the bidding requirements and purchase 35 APXN70 portable radios.
25-4034 2025
Res.    6-4-   Waiving the bid process and accepting the price quote from H2I Group for the
25-4027 2025   material and freight of facility armor court tiles at the Athletic and Event
               Center.
Res.    6-4-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Currie Motors
25-4035 2025   for the purchase of a 2025 Ford F-150 Police Responder 4x4 Pickup utilizing the
               Suburban Purchasing Cooperative.
Res.    6-4-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Currie Motors
25-4036 2025   for the purchase of a 2025 Ford Explorer utilizing the Suburban Purchasing
               Cooperative.
Res.    6-4-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Chicago Parts
25-4040 2025   and Sound, LLC for the upfitting of five police vehicles.
Res.    6-4-   Approving an agreement with Black Eleven Touring, Inc. and the attached rider.
25-4043 2025
Res.    6-4-   Approving a lease agreement with Xerox Financial Services for copier lease.
25-4044 2025
Res.    6-4-   Approving a license agreement - Kiddie Academy.
25-4045 2025
Res.    6-18-  Approving a proposal from Artistic Holiday Designs for purchasing, installation
25-4046 2025   and service of additional holiday light decorations for 2025.
Res.    6-18-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal from Denler, Inc. for the
25-4047 2025   placement of high-density mineral bond pavement surface treatment.
Res.    6-18-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal from V3 Construction Group
25-4048 2025   for the removal of debris at 135th Street bridges.
Res.    6-18-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan
25-4049 2025   Industries for a new 25 HP sewage lift pump station.
Res.    6-18-  Approving a master license agreement and a bridge license agreement with Zayo,
25-4050 2025   LLC.
Res.    6-18-  Awarding the contract for the Honeytree Subdivision drainage improvements
25-4053 2025   project.
Res.    6-18-  Waiving the bidding process and approving the quote from MES for the purchase
25-4054 2025   of 3M Scott Fire and Safety Air-Pak XD SCBA replacement self- contained
               breathing apparatus (SCBA) for the Fire Department.
Res.    6-18-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal from Metropolitan Industries
25-4055 2025   for the addition of emergency backup generators at Lakewood South and
               Fieldstone Lift Stations.
Res.    6-18-  Accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a contract with Martam
25-4056 2025   Construction, Inc. for the lower industrial business park water main
               improvements.
Res.    6-18-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting the lowest proposal from Johansen and
25-4057 2025   Anderson for the REMA building roof top unit.
Res.    6-18-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract for Microsoft
25-4058 2025   licenses to CDW-G.
Res.    6-18-  Approving change order #1 contract with Abbey Construction for the
25-4060 2025   stabilization for the north and south lots at Village Hall parking lot
               expansion project.
25-1990 7-9-   Amending the designating ordinance of the village in connection with the Des
        2025   Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone.
25-1991 7-9-   Approving an amendment to the Des Plaines River Valley Enterprise Zone
        2025   intergovernmental agreement (Minnick Services Property expansion request).
Res.    7-9-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Water Well
25-4063 2025   Solutions for installation of new pumping equipment and piping at well #11.
Res.    7-9-   Waiving the bidding requirements and entering into a professional services
25-4064 2025   contract with Gonzalez Companies, LLC for preparation of bridge rehabilitation
               plans.
Res.    7-9-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposals from Metropolitan
25-4065 2025   Industries for the upgrade and modernization of two sewage lift stations.
Res.    7-9-   Waiving the bid process and accepting the quote from IMG Development, LLC to
25-4066 2025   purchase and install an adjustable roof prop on Fire Academy training grounds.
Res.    7-9-   Authorizing a parking lot agreement (Joliet Junior College - Romeoville
25-4067 2025   Campus).
Res.    7-9-   Waiving the bidding requirements and approving a proposal from Award Emblem
25-4068 2025   Mfg. Company, Inc. for the design and installation of a retirement/recognition
               wall at the Police Department.
Res.    7-9-   Approving an addition to the concrete repair program for path removal and
25-4070 2025   concrete sidewalk installation on Taylor Road from Troxel Avenue to Belmont
               Drive.
Res.    7-9-   Approving an amendment to the intergovernmental agreement with Will County
25-4071 2025   (license plate reading camera placement on county highways).
Res.    7-9-   Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Cargill for
25-4072 2025   the purchase of an AccuBatch Brine Maker utilizing Sourcewell contract pricing.
Res.    8-20-  Accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a contract with Kim
25-4075 2025   Construction for 2025 Basin 13 sanitary sewer manhole rehabilitation program.
Res.    8-20-  Approving professional engineering services from Stantec Consulting Services,
25-4076 2025   Inc. for the village parallel projects with the Grand Prairie Water Commission.
Res.    8-20-  Awarding the contract for the 2025 roadway crack sealing program.
25-4077 2025
Res.    8-20-  Waiving the bid process and entering into a professional services contract with
25-4080 2025   Gonzalez Companies, LLC for inspection of duct installation on the 135th Street
               bridges.
Res.    8-20-  Waiving the bidding requirements, accepting the proposal and entering into a
25-4081 2025   contract with Karl Chevrolet for the purchase of a 2025 Chevrolet Tahoe.
Res.    8-20-  Waiving the bidding requirements, accepting the proposal and entering into a
25-4083 2025   contract with Packey Webb Ford for the purchase of a 2024 Ford Transit cut-away
               van.
Res.    8-20-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a purchase from Total
25-4084 2025   Automation Concepts, Inc.
Res.    8-20-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Romeoville
25-4085 2025   Toyota for the purchase of a 2025 Toyota RAV4.
Res.    8-20-  Evidencing the consent of the village to a collateral assignment of
25-4086 2025   redevelopment agreement (DPIF5 IL 13 Pinnacle, LLC to Fifth Third Bank,
               National Association).
Res.    9-3-   Awarding the lowest bid with Visu-Sewer of Illinois, LLC for the 2025 storm
25-4089 2025   sewer cured-in- place pipelining project.
Res.    9-3-   Approving an amendment to the intergovernmental agreement with Will County
25-4091 2025   (license plate reading camera placement on county highways).
Res.    9-3-   Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from Chandler Services,
25-4093 2025   Inc. for emergency repairs for vehicle #29.
Res.    9-3-   Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from High Star for the
25-4094 2025   village’s road and pavement striping utilizing the Will County governmental
               league suburban purchasing program.
Res.    9-3-   Approving a change order with Martam Construction for additional non-special
25-4095 2025   waste disposal cost.
Res.    9-3-   Approving a master license agreement with Metronet Fibernet, LLC.
25-4096 2025
Res.    9-3-   Approving an intergovernmental agreement with Valley View School District (STEP
25-4097 2025   program site agreement).
Res.    9-3-   Accepting the lowest proposal and entering into a contract with Homer Tree
25-4098 2025   Care, Inc. for tree removal services.
Res.    9-3-   Accepting the lowest bid for the growing, supply and planting tree program to
25-4099 2025   The Fields on Caton Farm, Inc.
Res.    9-3-   Authorizing an economic incentive agreement (PMAT Romeo, LLC).
25-4100 2025
        9-17-  Amending Ord. 18-1513; approving an amendment to the tax increment
25-2006 2025   redevelopment plan and redevelopment project for the Normantown/Weber Road
               Redevelopment Project Area.
        9-17-  Amending Ord. 18-1514 with respect to the designation of the Normantown/Weber
25-2007 2025   Road Redevelopment Project Area to add additional property to a redevelopment
               project area pursuant to the Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act.
25-2008 9-17-  Amending Ord. 18-1515; expanding the adoption of tax increment allocation
        2025   financing for the Normantown/Weber Road Tax Increment Finance District.
Res.    9-17-  Authorizing the execution of a license agreement with Heidelberg Materials
25-4101 2025   Midwest Agg, Inc. (Fire Department vehicle storage).
Res.    9-17-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing purchase of network
25-4102 2025   equipment to data center warehouse.
Res.    9-17-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract with Comcast for
25-4103 2025   network services.
Res.    9-17-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract with ESRI for GIS
25-4104 2025   software licensing.
Res.    9-17-  Waiving the formal bidding process and authorizing a contract for Telecom
25-4107 2025   Services to UniVoIP.
Res.    9-17-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal from Currie Motors for the
25-4108 2025   purchase of a 2026 Chevrolet Traverse.
Res.    9-17-  Waiving the bid process and entering into an agreement with Veterans Energy
25-4109 2025   Team for the installation of electric vehicle chargers.
Res.    9-17-  Authorizing the execution of a grant agreement - Romeoville Area Chamber of
25-4111 2025   Commerce, Incorporated.
Res.    10-1-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the proposal from Wireless CCTV for the
25-4112 2025   purchase of a surveillance trailer.
Res.    10-1-  Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from J Hassert
25-4114 2025   Landscaping, Inc. for landscape installation at Weber Road and N. Carillon
               Drive.
Res.    10-15- Approving a change order with Visu-Sewer for additional sanitary sewer main
25-4110 2025   cured-in-place liners at Chicago Tube Drive.
Res.    10-15- Waiving the bidding process and approving the quote from All Season Marine,
25-4116 2025   8073 N State Rt. 50, Manteno, IL, for Fire Department boat upgrades in the
               amount of $60,140.53.
Res.    10-15- Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Southwest
25-4118 2025   Town/Premistar South utilizing the NCPA/OMNIA purchasing contract.
Res.    10-15- Participation in the state bid contract for the supplying of bulk road salt for
25-4119 2025   the 2025/2026 fiscal year with Morton Salt.
Res.    10-15- Participation in the state bid contract for the supplying of bulk road salt for
25-4120 2025   the 2025/2026 fiscal year with Compass Minerals.
Res.    10-15- Approving an agreement with Sport Target Marketing, an Illinois corporation
25-4121 2025   (“STM”).
Res.    10-15- Approving an amended amusements contract (All Around Amusement, Inc. -
25-4122 2025   Romeofest contract).
Res.    11-5-  Authorizing a concession stand license agreement (Lightning Event and
25-4123 2025   Management, LLC - Volunteer Park, Village Park, Century Park, Romeoville
               Athletic and Event Center and Snack Shack - Recreation Center).
Res.    11-5-  Amending Res. 25-4110 Visu-Sewer lining contract (budget account adjustment).
25-4124 2025
Res.    11-5-  Approving a letter agreement with Romeoville Professional Firefighters Union,
25-4127 2025   IAFF Local 4237.
Res.    11-5-  Approving an agreement from Enterprises Engineering, Inc. to provide
25-4128 2025   engineering services related to the water audit, LMO2 and non-revenue water
               reduction.
Res.    11-5-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from Currie Motors
25-4129 2025   for the purchase of a 2026 Ford Transit van utilizing the Suburban Purchasing
               Cooperative.
Res.    11-5-  Waiving the bid process and accepting the quote for a rechassis/remount from
25-4130 2025   North Central Emergency Vehicles.
Res.    11-5-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the proposal from C & D
25-4132 2025   Recycling Services, Inc. for the demolition of the structures at 13849 through
               13855 S. Weber Road.
Res.    11-5-  Waiving the bidding requirements and entering into a contract with M & O
25-4133 2025   Environmental Services.
Res.    11-5-  Waiving the bidding requirements and accepting the lowest proposal from
25-4134 2025   Platteville Coatings for insulation for the public works storage building at
               the REMA site.
Res.    12-3-  Entering into an intergovernmental agreement with Will County for Weber Road
25-4138 2025   landscaping.
Res.    12-3-  Authorizing the waiving of bids for the provision of retail coaching services
25-4139 2025   and authorizing the acceptance of a proposal for the provision of the same by
               the retail coach.
Res.    12-3-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement with DuPage Township.
25-4140 2025
Res.    12-17- Waiving the bid and authorizing the purchase of equipment from Air One
25-4137 2025   Equipment, Inc.
Res.    12-17- Approving an agreement with UKG for software and support.
25-4144 2025
Res.    12-17- Approving an agreement with BS&A for software and support.
25-4145 2025
Res.    12-17- Waiving the bidding process and accepting the proposal from Rush Truck Center
25-4146 2025   for emergency engine repairs for truck #1003.
Res.    12-17- Approving a task order from Robinson Engineering for construction engineering
25-4148 2025   for the five-year water main replacement program - year two.
Res.    12-17- Authorizing a development agreement (Romeo Gardens Apartments - Romeo Gardens,
25-4149 2025   LLC).
              
 
TABLE III: DEDICATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. -        12-21-1977  Enterprise Drive from Naperville Drive to northeast
                          corner of Lot 17 in Marquette Center.
674           3-7-1979    Recreation Drive.
756           9-17-1980   Certain private streets located within Honeytree
                          Subdivision Units no. 1 and no. 2
Res. 202-82   7-7-1982    O’Hara Woods Nature Preserve.
Res. 229-83   1-5-1983    Bluff Drive, Marquette Drive and Naperville Drive
                          between Marquette Drive and Bluff Drive.
Res. 291-83   11-16-1983  Enterprise Drive, Lakeside Drive and Naperville
                          Drive.
2054-90       3-7-1990    135th Street adjacent to the Poplar Ridge
                          Subdivision.
Res. 713-90   10-30-1990  Windham Lakes Phase I.
Res. 794-91   11-6-1991   Cranbrook Court and Devon Lane.
Res. 808-92   2-5-1992    Pine Trails Subdivision.
Res. 832-92   6-17-1992   Bluff Trails Business Park.
Res. 907-93   4-21-1993   W. Romeo Road.
Res. 1146-95  4-19-1995   Lakewood Falls subdivision, Unit #3, Lakewood Homes,
                          Inc.
Res. 122-01   7-11-2001   Portion of Hosler Drive.
Res. 136-01   8-1-2001    Portions of Weber Road and Taylor Road.
Res. 04-0225  5-5-2004    Along Kotnour’s Landscaping and Nursery frontage.
Res. 04-0225  5-5-2004    Along Pat Considine’s parcel.
Res. 04-0225  5-5-2004    Along Meadowdale Phase 3 (Kenar) parcel.
Res. 05-0441  6-15-2005   0.018 acres (water tank site).
Res. 05-0512  12-7-2005   Lot 7 in Normantown Center.
Res. 09-1189  10-7-2009   International Hauling, Inc., located at 19464 Airport
                          Road.
Res. 17-2415  11-15-2017  Hayes Property at 1115 and 1119 N. Independence
                          Boulevard.
Res. 18-2608  12-5-2018   Bluff Road.
                         
 
TABLE IV: DISCONNECTING TERRITORY
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
598           1-4-1978    Property of Alfred Otto on Romeo Road - approximately
                          1.85 acres.
                         
 
TABLE V: EASEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  5-15-  Accepting grant of easement for public utilities in Marquette Center
-     1974   Business and Industrial Park Resubdivision no. l.
Res.  12-1-  Ratifying and confirming execution of grant of easement from Commonwealth
-     1976   Edison Co. for road right-of-way.
573   10-19- Vacating public utility easements in Marquette Center Business and
      1977   Industrial Park, Resubdivision no. 1.
574   10-19- Accepting public utility easements in Marquette Center Business and
      1977   Industrial Park, Resubdivision no. 1.
616   5-3-   Easement from Commonwealth Edison Co. for sewer line construction on Romeo
      1978   Road.
      11-26- Accepting grant of easement for construction and maintenance of a sanitary
764   1980   sewer line of the south ten feet of Block 1, Lot 17 in Hampton Park
             Subdivision.
      11-26- Accepting grant of easement for construction and maintenance of a sanitary
765   1980   sewer line of the south ten feet of Block 1, Lot 1 in Hampton Park
             Subdivision.
766   11-26- Accepting grant of easement for the construction and maintenance of a
      1980   sanitary sewer line for 700 Geneva.
767   11-26- Accepting grant of easement for the construction and maintenance of a
      1980   sanitary sewer line for 701 Hudson.
768   11-26- Accepting grant of easement for the construction and maintenance of a
      1980   sanitary sewer line for 700 Hudson.
769   11-26- Accepting grant of easement for construction and maintenance of a sanitary
      1980   sewer line for 701 Rodgers.
775   2-18-  Accepting grant of certain easements for a sanitary sewer utility line at
      1981   Haley Farm.
801   10-7-  Vacating utility easement in Marquette Center Business and Industrial Park
      1981   Subdivision.
802   10-7-  Vacating utility easements in Marquette Center Business and Industrial Park.
      1981
803   10-7-  Accepting utility easements in Marquette Center Business and Industrial
      1981   Park.
Res.  3-3-   Accepting grant of easement permitting Badger Pipe Line Company to maintain
177-  1982   a private pipeline under Lemont Road and Romeoville Road.
82
Res.  3-3-
178-  1982   Accepting grant of easement from Commonwealth Edison for sewer line.
82
Res.  3-17-  Accepting grant of easement from LaSalle National Bank as trustee for a
181-  1982   sanitary sewer.
82
Res.  3-16-  Accepting grant of easement from Thomas Rediehs for lift station and force
244-  1983   main tie-in.
83
Res.  3-16-
245-  1983   Accepting grant of easement from Herbert H. Huls for storm sewer.
83
Res.  3-16-
247-  1983   Accepting grant of easement from Ann Dorich Budzinski for storm sewer.
83
Res.  10-3-  Agreement with Commonwealth Edison for easement to install and maintain
356-  1984   concrete swale.
84
Res.  5-7-   Vacation and reduction of a railroad easement and a utility easement in the
454-  1986   Marquette Center Business and Industrial Park.
86
Res.  10-22-
478-  1986   Approving plat of a utility easement with the County Forest Preserve.
86
Res.  10-22-
479-  1986   Approving plat of utility easement with John and Jean Crowe.
86
Res.  10-22-
482-  1986   Approving plat of utility easement with Edgewood Bank Trust no. 102.
86
Res.  5-16-
690-  1990   Authorizing execution of release of easement for Ridgewood Business Park.
90
Res.  2-2-
989-  1994   Approving an easement with Commonwealth Edison.
94
2560- 5-6-   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement between the village and
98    1998   Midwest Bank & Trust Company.
Res.  2-2-
2438- 2000   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
00
Res.  2-2-
2439- 2000   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
00
Res.  2-2-
2440- 2000   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
00
Res.  4-19-
2479- 2000   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
00-01
Res.  6-21-
2521- 2000   Approving plat of dedication for an easement for Neumann Homes.
00
Res.  2-7-   Approving plat of easement with Jim Adcock.
23-01 2001
Res.  4-4-   Approving final plat of easement with Cardinal Development Corporation.
49-01 2001
Res.  5-16-  Approving of an easement agreement with Valley View Community School
74-01 2001   District no. 365U.
Res.  7-11-  Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison
123-  2001   Company.
01
Res.  9-5-
148-  2001   Approving and accepting a sanitary sewer easement.
01
Res.  11-7-
163-  2001   Approving and accepting a sanitary sewer easement and agreement.
01
Res.  4-3-
0021- 2002   Approving final plat of Chicago District Pipeline Easement.
02
Res.  4-3-
0022- 2002   Approving final plat of ComEd right-of-way easement.
02
Res.  4-3-
0023- 2002   Approving final plat of Sec. 28, Twp. 37 N easement.
02
Res.  4-3-
0024- 2002   Approving final plat of Crossroads Lakes easement.
02
Res.  6-19-  Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison
0074- 2002   Company for construction of a sewer line.
02
Res.  6-19-  Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement with Commonwealth Edison
0075- 2002   Company for construction of a sewer line.
02
Res.  7-17-  Authorizing the execution of a right-of-way acquisition agreement with
0095- 2002   Richard and Dorothy Bromberek for road improvements and public utilities.
02
Res.  10-2-  Approving final plat of easement for the dedication of an easement for water
0139- 2002   main purposes.
02
Res.  11-20- Approving final plat of easement for the water main on the property planned
0162- 2002   for the Expert Automotive facility.
02
Res.  12-4-
0169- 2002   Approving final plat of easement for lake access.
02
Res.  12-4-  Approving final plat of easement for the Architectural Wall Solutions
0170- 2002   Watermains.
02
Res.  7-2-   Approving final plat of easement, for installation of public utilities, of
0078- 2003   property running along the north end of the Lakewood Falls commercial
03           parcel.
Res.  3-17-
04-   2004   Approving final plat of easement for Bluff Point.
0200
Res.  5-5-   Approving an easement for bike path and temporary construction along
04-   2004   Kotnour’s Landscaping and Nursery frontage.
0225
Res.  5-5-   Approving an easement for public drainage and temporary construction along
04-   2004   Pat Considine’s parcel.
0225
Res.  5-5-   Approving an easement for temporary construction along Meadowdale Phase 3
04-   2004   (Kenar) parcel.
0225
Res.  5-19-  Approving final plat of easement for Highpoint Square, Williams Sub Lot 2,
04-   2004   Phase 2.
0232
Res.  8-4-
04-   2004   Approving final plat of easement for Network Strategy.
0279
Res.  8-18-
04-   2004   Approving final plat of easement for Windgate Distribution Center.
0287
Res.  8-16-
06-   2006   Accepting plat of easement for S-Cubed Storage, LLC.
0634
Res.  8-16-
06-   2006   Execution of a plat of easement for Roman Catholic Diocese of Joliet.
0636
Res.  7-18-
07-   2007   Approving a plat of easement for 5 Romeo Road.
0806
Res.  8-1-
07-   2007   Approving plat of easement for local 150 Weber Road property.
0819
Res.  8-15-
07-   2007   Acquisition of a public utility easement at 3 E. Romeo Road.
0829
Res.  9-5-
07-   2007   Authorizing an easement agreement with Quantum Foods, LLC.
0833
Res.  10-17-
07-   2007   Authorizing easement agreement for fencing.
0859
Res.  11-7-  Amending and extending Res. 177-82.
-     2007
Res.  7-16-
08-   2008   Approving plat of easement grant for part of Bluff Point Lot 2.
0978
Res.  9-3-
08-   2008   Approving an easement agreement with ComEd.
1006
Res.  10-1-
08-   2008   Approving a grant of easement for public water main for Wilco Property.
1018
Res.  10-1-  Approving a grant of easement for public water mains for Lewis University
08-   2008   Property.
1019
09-   2-4-   Accepting an assignment of a stormwater management easement for
0747  2009   approximately 2.75 acres of the property immediately at the southeast corner
             of Weber Road and Gaskin Drive.
Res.  4-1-   Accepting the utility easements for the Lewis University Water Main
09-   2009   Improvements project from the Joliet Regional Port District.
1108
Res.  5-20-  Accepting the utility easements for the Lewis University Water Main
09-   2009   Improvements project from Carlson Brothers.
1141
Res.  6-17-  Authorizing the execution of a temporary construction easement for mass
09-   2009   earthwork to Airport Road Venture.
1152
Res.  6-9-
10-   2010   Approving a plat of easement for Lewis University, Lewis Chapel Addition.
1290
Res.  9-15-
10-   2010   Approving a plat of easement for Firestone, located at 520 S. Weber Road.
1325
Res.  11-17- Approving a plat of easement for the Deals store located in the Shops of
10-   2010   Romeoville.
1356
Res.  5-15-
13-   2013   Approving a plat of easement for Sam’s fuel station at Romeoville Crossing.
1650
Res.  5-21-  Authorizing an easement agreement with Valley View Community Unit School
14-   2014   District no. 365U (Route 53 and Material Road Intersection Improvement -
1828         Sanitary Sewer Forcemain Relocation).
Res.  7-15-  Authorizing a public emergency siren easement agreement with Carillon Adult
15-   2015   Master Association.
1996
Res.  7-15-  Authorizing an easement agreement with Valley View Community Unit School
15-   2015   District no. 365U for a utility easement.
1998
Res.  11-18-
15-   2015   Approving a water main easement for Outlot 10 of Romeoville Crossings.
2041
Res.  11-18-
15-   2015   Approving a utility easement for Outlot 10 of Romeoville Crossings.
2042
Res.  12-16- Authorizing the execution of an easement release for village utility
15-   2015   easement located at Block 2 of Parkdale Shopping Center.
2047
Res.  7-20-
16-   2016   Approving a grant of easement for public utilities for Uptown Square.
2158
Res.  9-7-   Authorizing the execution of public siren easement agreement with PDV
16-   2016   Midwest Refining, LLC.
2182
Res.  9-7-   Authorizing the execution of a partial release of easement with Windham
16-   2016   Lakes Business Park - northeast corner of Weber Road and Remington
2184         Boulevard.
Res.  11-2-  Authorizing the execution of a pathway facility and right-of-way maintenance
16-   2016   easement agreement with R. Daniel Conlon.
2220
Res.  12-7-
16-   2016   Authorizing the acceptance of a grant of easement with Klock Farm, LLC.
2237
Res.  4-5-
17-   2017   Approving a plat of vacation of easements for Hillwood.
2268
Res.  4-5-   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement for Recreation Pathway-
17-   2017   Budler Road.
2276
Res.  9-6-   Authorizing the execution of a warranty deed, certified resolution,
17-   2017   conveyance documents and construction easement documents in favor of IDOT
2378         for property at the northeast corner of Weber and Lakeview Roads.
Res.  7-18-  Approving an easement agreement with the Joliet Regional Port District (175
18-   2018   S. Southcreek Parkway).
2538
Res.  9-5-
18-   2018   Approving a final plat of easement (PAL Group Stormwater).
2542
Res.  9-5-
18-   2018   Approving a final plat of easement (S-Cubed at 645 S. Weber Road).
2553
Res.  11-7-
18-   2018   Accepting a grant of easement (Lakewood 7 Sidewalk).
2594
Res.  11-7-
18-   2018   Authorizing easement grants (Elgin Avenue rear yard fence replacements).
2601
Res.  1-16-
19-   2019   Approving a final plat of easement (500 S. Pinnacle Drive).
2624
Res.  8-7-   Approving a plat of easement (part of Lots 1 and 2 of Interchange 55
19-   2019   Logistics Park Subdivision - Bluff Road).
2738
Res.  8-7-   Authorizing execution of public storm sewer easement agreement with Wilson
19-   2019   Diaz (680 Phelps).
2748
Res.  11-6-
19-   2019   Approving a plat of easement with Troutman and Dams.
2797
Res.  11-6-
19-   2019   Easement agreement for Pinnacle Drive with LaFarge North America, Inc.
2809
Res.  11-6-
19-   2019   Approving plat of easement (Troutman and Dams).
2897
Res.  12-4-
19-   2019   Easement agreement with Lewis University North Parcel Route 53.
2822
Res.  12-4-
19-   2019   Acquiring an easement for constructing improvements.
2823
Res.  12-18-
19-   2019   Plat of easement (Joe’s Beverage Warehouse).
2827
Res.  1-15-  Easement agreement for sidewalks with Tuffy’s Repair/Las Islas building
20-   2020   site.
2838
Res.  4-1-
20-   2020   Approving a plat of easement for Jiffy Lube at 1332 W. Airport Road.
2868
Res.  5-20-
20-   2020   Easement acquisition agreement with Walco Tool and Engineering.
2917
Res.  7-15-  Easement agreement (temporary and permanent easement - Independence
20-   2020   Boulevard PRV Station - 765 Independence LLC).
2943
Res.  9-2-
20-   2020   Approving a plat of easement for 525 Anderson Drive.
2974
Res.  9-2-
20-   2020   Approving a plat of easement for the Offices at Windham Lakes Building 3.
2975
Res.  10-21-
20-   2020   Approving a plat of easement - Troutman and Dams.
3010
Res.  11-18- Approving a plat of vacation of utility easements (Romeoville Athletic and
20-   2020   Event Center expansion).
3034
Res.  1-6-   Authorizing the execution of an easement acquisition agreement with Lewis
21-   2021   University.
3065
Res.  2-3-
21-   2021   Approving a plat of easement - Romeoville Express Car Wash.
3077
Res.  4-21-
20-   2021   Approving a plat of easement for Thornton’s at Gateway.
2867
Res.  5-5-
21-   2021   Approving a plat of easement for Crate and Barrel at 501 W. Taylor Road.
3117
Res.  5-19-  Approving a plat of easement for Lola’s Truckwash at 1331 N. Independence
21-   2021   Boulevard.
3136
Res.  7-21-  Authorizing easement agreements (Arlington Drive rear yard fence
21-   2021   replacements).
3178
Res.  9-1-
21-   2021   Approving a grant of easement (village property near Normantown and Weber).
3218
Res.  10-6-
21-   2021   Approving a plat of easement for Arby’s Plaza at 470 to 474 S. Weber Road.
3228
Res.  10-6-  Approving a plat of easement for Duke Realty Limited Partnership (Airport
21-   2021   Logistics Center Phase 1).
3234
Res.  4-20-
22-   2022   Approving a plat of easement for IDI at Gateway.
3339
Res.  5-18-  Approving a plat of easement for Valley View Community School District
22-   2022   (365U).
3370
Res.  6-15-
22-   2022   Approving a plat of easement for the Seasons of Romeoville.
3387
Res.  9-7-
22-   2022   Approving a plat of easement for Popeye’s at 421 S. Weber Road.
3428
Res.  9-7-
22-   2022   Approving a plat of easement for sanitary sewer at 1125 W. Taylor Road.
3434
Res.  9-7-
22-   2022   Approving a plat of easement for Belle Tire at 620 S. Weber Road.
3436
Res.  1-4-   Approving a right-of-way and easement agreement relating to 14435 S. Budler
23-   2023   Road.
3510
Res.  1-4-
23-   2023   Easement agreement with CT Clean - Romeoville, LLC.
3512
Res.  3-15-
23-   2023   Approving a plat of easement for Starbucks at 470 N. Independence Boulevard.
3548
Res.  4-19-
23-   2023   Approving a plat of easement for FS Industrial.
3571
Res.  4-19-
23-   2023   Approving a plat of easement for sanitary sewer at 20621 W. Taylor Road.
3572
Res.  5-3-   Authorizing the execution of an easement acquisition agreement with PLJ
23-   2023   Partnership, LP.
3593
Res.  5-3-   Approving a plat of easement for sanitary sewer for PLJ Partnership, LP and
23-   2023   Ward Family Land Trust.
3594
Res.  5-3-
23-   2023   Approving a plat of easement for sanitary sewer for Pizzuti.
3595
Res.  6-21-  Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement (Recreational Pathway –
23-   2023   Citgo Parking Area).
3627
Res.  10-18-
23-   2023   Approving a plat of easement (Boyer Rosene at 717 Parkwood).
3684
Res.  10-18-
23-   2023   Approving a plat of dedication and reservation of easement for Romeo Road.
3685
Res.  2-7-
24-   2024   Approving a plat of easement for Weber 55 Logistics Park (Molto).
3733
Res.  2-7-   Approving a plat of easement for Bridge Development Partners, LLC (Bridge
24-   2024   Point Gully).
3736
Res.  3-6-
24-   2024   Authorizing the execution of an easement agreement (Romeo Center Plaza).
3746
Res.  5-15-  Approving a plat of easement for the water main near the Airport Control
24-   2024   Tower.
3792
Res.  5-15-
24-   2024   Approving a plat of easement for ML Realty at 1203 Lakeview Drive.
3795
Res.  6-12-  Approving an easement agreement (Lakewood Falls Association - Recreational
24-   2024   Path).
3822
Res.  6-26-
24-   2024   Approving a plat of easement for Kiddie Academy at 1311 W. Airport Road.
3818
Res.  6-26-  Approving a plat of easement for Fields Auto Group (Mercedes-Benz of
24-   2024   Romeoville).
3833
Res.  6-26-  Approving a plat of easement for PDC Chicago LPIV, LLC (Panattoni at Lewis
24-   2024   Airport).
3806
Res.  7-17-  Approving a plat of easement grant and vacation of Airport Logistics Center
24-   2024   (Prologis).
3807
Res.  7-17-  Accepting an assignment of easement (County DOT – Stormwater Management
24-   2024   Facility at 135th and Weber).
3851
Res.  8-21-
24-   2024   Approving a plat of easement for Care Cremation at 33 E. Montrose.
3876
Res.  11-6-  Approving a plat of vacation of water main easement (JRPD Watermain
24-   2024   relocation).
3921
Res.  12-4-
24-   2024   Approving an easement agreement with Wespark Master Association.
3936
            
 
TABLE VI: LEASES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
566   10-5-  Lease of property to Union National Bank and Trust Company to fund new
      1977   police station.
600   1-18-  Lease of property to Union National Bank and Trust Company to fund new
      1978   police station.
Res.  8-23-  Lease with Wilhelm’s Landing.
19-78 1978
Res.  8-1-   Termination of lease with Wilhelm’s Landing.
50-79 1979
754   9-3-   Lease of certain property and funding of improvements for the Romeoville
      1980   Recreation Center.
Res.  3-17-
179-  1982   Lease of property to Walter Matheis for farming.
82
Res.  12-8-
217-  1982   Lease of property to Walter Matheis for farming.
82
Res.  12-22- Accepting Regional Transportation Authority mini bus grant and lease
219-  1982   agreement.
82
Res.  4-18-
324-  1984   Lease of property to Walter Matheis, Jr. for farming.
84
Res.  6-3-   The Village President and Village Clerk are authorized to enter into a
829-  1992   lease agreement with Dan Price for the use of the property located at 15341
92           S. New Avenue, Unit #3.
Res.  7-5-   Lease agreement with Dan Price for the use of the property located at 15341
1169- 1995   S. New Avenue (Unit #3) Lockport, IL.
95
2537- 2-17-  Agreement to lease certain space at the Water Tower Facility at Fairfax and
98    1998   Murphy Road.
2546- 3-4-   Agreement to lease certain space at the Water Tower Facility at Fairfax and
98    1998   Murphy Road.
0003- 1-1-   Agreement to lease certain space to MidAmerica Towers, Inc.
03    2003
04-   4-21-  Authorizing an amendment to a certain lease of village-owned real estate.
0140  2004
04-   8-4-   Authorizing the execution of a lease between the village and St. Andrew’s
0169  2004   Church, park facility.
Res.  10-20- Approving the lease/purchase of a Pitney Boews DM500 Postage System with
04-   2004   IntelliLink Technology.
0309
Res.  5-17-  Approving a lease agreement between AYSO Soccer and the Village Recreation
06-   2006   Department.
0582
07-   4-4-   Authorizing the execution of a certain real estate purchase contract and a
0523  2007   certain lease of village-owned real estate.
Res.  6-18-  Authorizing the execution of a lease with the Joliet Regional Port
-     2008   District.
Res.  7-16-  Authorizing a lease agreement with Direct Fitness Solutions and Allstate
08-   2008   Capital for fitness center strength training equipment.
0984
Res.  8-6-   Approving a concession stand lease agreement between Romeoville Spartan
08-   2008   Football and the Village Recreation Department.
0992
Res.  11-5-  Authorizing the Village Manager to enter into a lease agreement with the
08-   2008   Community Service Council.
1046
Res.  8-19-  Approving a concession stand lease agreement between Romeoville Spartan
09-   2009   Football and the Village Recreation Department.
1178
Res.  8-19-  Authorizing a lease-purchase agreement with Municipal Asset Management,
09-   2009   Inc.
1179
Res.  3-17-
10-   2010   Authorizing a lease amendment with Sprintcom.
1235
Res.  7-21-
10-   2010   Authorizing a lease with Romeoville Area Chamber of Commerce, Inc.
1304
Res.  7-21-
10-   2010   Authorizing a lease with Tri County Special Recreation Association.
1305
Res.  7-21-
10-   2010   Authorizing a lease with Fountaindale Historical Society.
1306
Res.  9-1-   Approving a concession stand lease agreement between Romeoville Spartan
10-   2010   Football and the village.
1319
Res.  12-1-  Executing an amendment to a lease with Tri County Special Recreation
10-   2010   Association.
1353
Res.  3-7-
12-   2012   Executing an amendment to a lease with Fancy Nails, 625 Access Drive.
1498
Res.  6-20-
12-   2012   Executing a farm lease agreement with Siegel Cottonwood Farm.
1543
Res.  9-17-
12-   2012   Lease termination agreement for 7 Terrace Lane.
1588
Res.  12-5-
12-   2012   Executing a farm lease for Siegel Cottonwood Farm.
1605
Res.  12-18-
13-   2013   Executing a lease agreement with Commonwealth Edison.
1759
Res.  2-5-
14-   2014   Authorizing the execution of a farm lease with Siegel Cottonwood Farm.
1768
Res.  2-19-  Authorizing a lease with Citgo Petroleum Company and PDV Midwest Refining
14-   2014   Company.
1777
Res.  2-18-  Authorizing a lease amendment between the village and SBA Towers II, LLC
15-   2015   for property at 900 W. Romeo Road.
1926
Res.  3-4-
15-   2015   Authorizing a farm lease with Siegel Cottonwood Farm.
1930
Res.  4-1-
15-   2015   Authorizing a lease with Edward Hospital located at 55 Phelps Avenue.
1941
Res.  7-15-  Authorizing the execution of a lease between the village and Edco Partners,
15-   2015   Inc. for 38 E. Montrose.
1992
Res.  9-2-   Authorizing the execution of a lease agreement with SprintCom, Inc. for 195
15-   2015   Pinnacle Drive Water Tower.
2011
Res.  11-18- Authorizing the execution of a farm lease with Siegel Cottonwood Farm -
15-   2015   Airport Road/Bigelow property.
2045
Res.  7-6-
16-   2016   Authorizing a lease extension agreement for 38 E. Montrose Drive.
2140
Res.  4-5-   Authorizing the execution of a lease amendment with PDV Midwest Refining,
17-   2017   LLC.
2277
Res.  1-16-  Approving a legislative district office space lease with the State House of
19-   2019   Representatives.
2634
Res.  2-6-   Authorizing the execution of a lease agreement with Vertical Bridge
19-   2019   Development, LLC for 27 Montrose Drive.
2639
Res.  11-20-
19-   2019   Approving a lease agreement with Agencyrts, LLC.
2815
Res.  5-20-  Approving the execution of a lease with the Roman Catholic Diocese of
20-   2020   Joliet Trust (135th Street vacant land).
2913
Res.  7-15-  Approving the execution of a lease with Commonwealth Edison Company
20-   2020   (recreation trail within ComEd R.O.W.).
2944
Res.  1-6-   Approving a legislative district office space lease with the State House of
21-   2021   Representatives by its agent, State Representative Natalie Manley.
3058
Res.  5-19-  Authorizing the execution of a lease agreement with Central States Tower
21-   2021   IV, LLC for a portion of certain premises owned by the village within the
3145         Windham Lakes Business Park.
Res.  8-17-  Approving the execution of a lease amendment with the Roman Catholic
22-   2022   Diocese of Joliet Trust (135th Street vacant land).
3407
Res.  12-7-  Approving a legislative district office space lease with the State House of
22-   2022   Representatives by its agent, State Representative Dagmara Avelar.
3505
Res.  2-1-   Approving a legislative district office space lease with the State House of
23-   2023   Representatives by its agent, State Representative Natalie Manley.
3525
            
 
TABLE VII: PURCHASE AND SALE OF REAL ESTATE
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
252   7-19-  Sale of property - 100 feet square, located in Sec. 35, Twp. 37 N, Range 10
      1967   E.
284   10-15- Purchase of property for recreational purposes - 68 acres from the
      1969   Alexanders.
309   3-17-  Purchase of property for recreational purposes - 5 acres from the Wards.
      1971
401   5-1-   Sale of property to United States Postal Service - the east 220 feet of Lot
      1974   22, Block 8 of Hampton Park Subdivision no. 10.
      8-21-  Sale of property to United States Postal Service - Lot 22 in Block 8 of
417   1974   Hampton Park Subdivision no. 10, containing approximately 125,017 square
             feet.
588   11-16- Purchase of Harold Grabow farm, approximately 160 acres.
      1977
Res.  7-6-   Approving the sale of property at the intersection of Bluff and Joliet Roads
1047- 1994   for the purposes of roadway improvements.
94
2428- 6-19-  Authorizing the acquisition of certain properties for municipal purposes for
96    1996   the village.
Res.  7-3-   Authorizing the execution of a land purchase agreement for the Kopperud
2112- 1996   Property.
96
2456- 1-22-  Approving the resolution of the Parcel 9 acquisition on the 135th Street
97    1997   Bridge project with the Will County Forest Reserve.
2469- 3-26-  Executing the contract for the sale of certain city property, known as Romeo
97    1997   Shores, to Mistwood Golf Course (IL, Inc.).
2488- 7-16-  Amending Ord. 2428-96 authorizing the acquisition of certain properties for
67    1997   municipal purposes for the village.
2598- 8-5-   Authorizing the acquisition by eminent domain of certain property for
98    1998   municipal purposes.
2790- 9-6-   Authorizing the acquisition by eminent domain of certain property for
00    2000   municipal purposes.
80-01 7-18-  Authorizing the execution of a purchase contract for certain property, known
      2001   as Carillon Water Tower site, for the village.
101-  11-21- Authorizing the acquisition by eminent domain of certain property for
02    2001   municipal purposes.
0040- 6-12-  Authorizing the execution of a purchase contract for property for municipal
02    2002   purposes.
Res.  3-16-
05-   2005   Authorizing the sale of certain surplus village real estate.
0390
Res.  3-16-
05-   2005   Authorizing the sale of certain surplus village real estate.
0393
05-   7-6-   Authorizing the acquisition by eminent domain of certain property for
0291  2005   municipal purposes.
05-   8-23-  Authorizing the acquisition by eminent domain of certain property for
0306  2005   municipal purposes.
06-   3-22-  Authorizing the acquisition by eminent domain of certain property for
0387  2006   municipal purposes.
06-   5-3-   Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase agreement with Leonora
0408  2006   Phillips.
06-   5-3-   Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase agreement with 3000
0409  2006   Hirsch Street Partnership.
06-   5-3-   Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase agreement with Good
0410  2006   Shepherd Lutheran Church.
06-   6-7-   Authorizing acquisition by eminent domain of certain property for municipal
0416  2006   purposes.
07-   4-18-  Authorizing the execution of a certain real estate purchase contract to
0526  2007   purchase the Valley View School District “bus barn” site on 135th Street.
07-   6-6-   Authorizing the acquisition by eminent domain of certain property for
0543  2007   municipal purposes.
08-   8-6-   Authorizing purchase of property commonly known as Harris Bank vacant parcel
0697  2008   containing approximately 3.87 acres.
Res.  2-18-  Authorizing sale of village property, commonly known as the vacant tract of
09-   2009   land lying south of Normantown Road, east of Alexander Circle and west of
1088         Town Hall Drive, comprising 3.87 acres more or less.
09-   9-2-   Authorizing purchase of the Catholic Diocese Property located on 135th
0782  2009   Street.
09-   10-7-  Authorizing purchase of property for a Fire Station Training Center.
0789  2009
Res.  4-6-   Authorizing conveyance of real property having a common address of 202
11-   2011   Robbin.
1408
12-   2-1-   Authorizing real estate purchase contract to purchase real estate located
0966  2012   along Route 53, and generally adjacent to the McDonalds.
12-   8-1-   Authorizing real estate purchase contract.
1004  2012
14-   2-5-   Authorizing real estate purchase contract for E. Romeo Road property.
1094  2014
15-   11-18- Authorizing the purchase of certain real estate located at 17 Alexander
1234  2015   Circle.
Res.  3-2-
16-   2016   Authorizing real estate sale contract for 10 Montrose Drive.
2064
16-   3-16-  Acquisition of property commonly known as 626 Town Hall Drive.
1270  2016
Res.  9-7-   Authorizing the execution of a warranty deed and conveyance document for the
16-   2016   Weber Road parcel conveyed to the village by Sterling Wetlands, LLC.
2183
16-   10-18- Authorizing the execution of a real estate contract to purchase the Illinois
1324  2016   Corporation - Route 53 Property.
17-   5-3-   Authorizing the execution of a real estate contract for 620 Town Hall Drive.
1363  2017
17-   8-16-  Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase contract for part of 1300
1396  2017   Naperville Drive.
18-   2-21-  Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase contract for PIN 11-04-
1467  2018   18-413-013-0000.
19-   7-17-  Authorizing assignment and assumption of purchase agreement with Duke Realty,
1581  2019   LP for 17.23 acres north of Renwick Road.
19-   7-17-  Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase contract with Cornerstone
1582  2019   Services, Inc. for 756 Independence Boulevard and 750 Honeytree Drive.
19-   8-7-   Authorizing the execution of real estate purchase contracts with Will County
1587  2019   Trustee for PIN 12-02-32-200-032-0000 and PIN 12-02-32-102-019-0000.
20-   5-20-  Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase contract with the Roman
1636  2020   Catholic Diocese of Joliet Trust (135th Street vacant land - west of
             cemetery).
21-   1-20-  Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase agreement with Duke
1679  2021   Realty Limited Partnership (portion of property acquired from LaFarge North
             America, Inc.).
22-   2-2-   Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase agreement for 341 to 343
1758  2022   Independence Boulevard, Romeoville).
Res.  10-19- Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase contract with Roger and
22-   2022   Rosie Hackney (vacant Romeo Road parcel).
3467
Res.  9-18-  Authorizing the conveyance of certain village property and accepting a
24-   2024   conveyance to the village of certain property (1203 Lakeview Drive - Windham
3895         Lakes).
25-   4-2-   Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase contract with Raymond
1976  2025   Alcala (525 E. Romeo Road).
25-   6-4-   Authorizing the execution of a real estate purchase contract with Joseph P.
1985  2025   Ward, individually, and Daniel R. Ward, as Trustee of the Daniel R. Ward
             Trust, dated January 18, 2001.
25-   11-5-  Authorizing the execution and delivery of a deed (Forest Preserve District of
2015  2025   the county - 525 E. Romeo Road).
            
 
TABLE VIII: STREET NAME CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. -        9-20-1972   From Schmidt Road to Luther Drive.
Res. -        3-6-1974    From 135th Street to Romeo Road.
415           8-7-1974    Designating Dalhart Avenue between Arlington Drive
                          and Normantown Road.
441           1-2-1975    From Front Street to Spangler Drive.
446           2-19-1975   From Illinois State Route 53 to Independence
                          Boulevard.
808           12-16-1981  From Lake Shore Drive to Beverly J. Griffin Drive.
972-86        9-17-1986   From Bluff Drive to Chambers Drive.
1094-89       4-5-1989    From 107th Street to Lloyd Eipers Drive.
Res. 640-89   9-20-1989   Renaming certain streets within the Poplar Ridge
                          Subdivision.
Res. 793-91   11-6-1991   Renaming of Hopkins Road between Renwick Road and the
                          Wilco Career Center to Wilco Boulevard.
Res. 937-93   8-18-1993   From Greenwood Avenue to Forestwood Avenue.
98-01         9-19-2001   Renaming of a portion of Anderson Drive to Schwab
                          Circle.
Res. 0069-03  6-4-2003    Renaming of a portion of Lakeview Drive and of Arbor
                          Drive to Remington Boulevard.
06-0467       11-1-2006   Renaming of a portion of Frontage Road to Brunswick
                          Lane.
06-0473       11-15-2006  Renaming of a portion of Frontage Road to Normantown
                          Road.
07-0598       11-7-2007   Renaming of a portion of Romeo Road to Old Romeo
                          Road.
08-0659       5-7-2008    Renaming of Jaclyn Court to Innovation Drive.
08-0693       8-6-2008    Renaming of streets in the Airport Industrial Center.
09-0798       12-2-2009   Renaming Luther Drive to Dalhart Avenue.
17-1395       8-16-2017   Approving the naming of Mews Lane for the Highpoint
                          Town Square Development.
24-1903       3-6-2024    Renaming of Alexander Circle to Dalhart Avenue.
                         
 
TABLE IX: SUBDIVISION REPLATS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
423           6-5-1974    Relocating school access easement in Honeytree
                          Subdivision.
Res. -        9-1-1976    Replat of Marquette Center Business and Industrial
                          Park following vacation of street.
Res. -        10-20-1976  Replat of parcel in Subdivision no. 11 requested by
                          trustee.
681           4-4-1979    Replat of lots in Marquette Center Business and
                          Industrial Park, Unit 1.
715           2-6-1980    Replat of Senffer property in Rairdon Subdivision.
Res. 12-1586  10-2-2012   Approving a plat of resubdivision for Romeoville
                          Crossings.
Res. 21-3226  10-6-2021   Approving a plat of resubdivision for Chicago Tube
                          Drive, LLC at 1130 Chicago Tube Drive.
                          Approving a final plat of subdivision for Bridge
Res. 21-3227  10-6-2021   Development Partners, LLC (Bridge Point Gully
                          Subdivision).
Res. 23-3633  7-19-2023   Approving a plat of subdivision for John and Lawrence
                          Brannen Resubdivision.
                         
 
TABLE X: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
508           9-1-1976    Lakeside Court.
Res. 632-89   8-16-1989   Spangler Drive, at its intersection with Belmont
                          Drive.
2085-91       1-23-1991   Vacating a portion of Hopkins Road.
Res. 1190-95  8-16-1995   Vacating of easement on Lot 9 Romeoville Commercial/
                          Industrial Park Unit #2.
2792-00       9-20-2000   Vacation of a portion of Airport Road.
Res. 2569-00  10-18-2000  Plat of vacation to construct Wesglen NH #4.2, a 42-
                          unit single-family residential development.
2806-00       12-6-2000   Vacating a certain village right-of-way commonly
                          known as 25 Alexander Circle.
                          Vacating building setback lines and a drainage
Res. 22-01    2-7-2001    utility easement in Romeoville Commercial Park Lots
                          11 and 13.
Res. 79-01    5-16-2001   Vacating a portion of Aster Drive in Wesglen
                          Neighborhood #4.1.
0074-02       10-16-2002  Vacating a portion of Airport Road.
Res. 04-0201  3-17-2004   Vacating a portion of ProLogis Park.
                          Vacating a traffic circle located in the middle of
05-0287       6-15-2005   Parkview, Edgewater and Wood Hill Drives in Weslake
                          Subdivision.
08-0703       9-3-2008    Vacating 360 High Road.
10-0884       12-1-2010   Vacating 19520 Airport Road.
13-1056       7-2-2013    Vacating Old Village Hall, 10, 11, 13 and 17 Montrose
                          Drive.
Res. 14-1809  5-7-2014    Vacating part of the southeast quarter of Sec. 29,
                          Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
14-1117       5-7-2014    Vacating 710 and 715 Theodore Court.
16-1301       7-6-2016    Vacating certain village right-of-way and easements
                          located at 1100 W. Airport Road.
22-1800       11-15-2022  Vacating certain village right-of-way located on
                          Airport Road.
Res. 23-3614  6-7-2023    Vacation of easement - Freddy’s at 440 S. Weber Road.
23-1856       8-16-2023   Vacating certain village right-of-way (Northwest Quad
                          Frontage Road).
                         
 
TABLE XI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./   Date
Res.    Passed Description
No.
198     2-6-   (A) A portion of Sec. 34, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E, lying along U.S. Highway 66
        1959   (A) zoned Class C, Commercial.
             (B) Portions of Sec. 34 and Sec. 27 adjacent to U.S. Highway 66 (A) zoned Class
               E, Heavy Industrial.
294     3-4-   E. Hauck and J. Hauck property zoned Class C, Commercial.
        1970
313     4-7-   D & M Motor Sales property from M-2 to M-1 Light Industrial District.
        1971
312     4-14-  A portion of Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E rezoned to S-1 Special Development
        1971   District.
370     7-18-  Property of Ross Development zoned C-1 Neighborhood Commercial.
        1973
375     9-19-  Herbert Rhoads, et al. property rezoned from R-1 to M-1 Light Industrial
        1973   District.
384     12-27- Allister Construction Company Tract zoned R-4 Residential.
        1973
395     3-20-  Property of Ross Development zoned C-1 Neighborhood Commercial.
        1974
444     1-2-   Herbert Rhoads, et al., property rezoned from R-1 to M-1 Light Industrial
        1975   District.
471     9-3-   525 Normantown Road rezoned from R-4 to R-3 Residential.
        1975
475     10-1-  Land adjacent to U.S. Highway 66 zoned C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District.
        1975
485     2-18-  Land adjacent to U.S. Highway 66 (A) zoned C-2 General Commercial District
        1976   (Alpike Industries Tract).
509     7-7-   A portion of Sec. 34, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E zoned C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
        1976   District (McPhee Funeral Home).
559     9-7-   845 N. Independence Boulevard rezoned from R-1 to C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
        1977   District.
565     10-5-  Portions of Sec. 9 and Sec. 10, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E, approximately 169 acres
        1977   zoned A-1 Agricultural District (Kirman property).
589     11-16- Santa Fe Company property zoned A-1 Agricultural District.
        1977
590     11-16- Natural Gas Pipeline Company property zoned A-1 Agricultural District.
        1977
591     11-16- B. Wysocki, E. Ward and W. Ward property zoned A-1 Agricultural District.
        1977
592     11-16- B. Wysocki property zoned A-1 Agricultural District.
        1977
599     1-4-   Commonwealth Edison Company substation property zoned A-1 Agricultural
        1978   District.
603     2-1-   Property located at McKool and Frontage Roads rezoned from R-3 to R-
        1978   O Residential Office District.
604     2-1-   James P. Zeiger property, Post no. 3582, VFW, Inc., zoned C-1 Neighborhood
        1978   Commercial District.
610     3-1-   Murphy’s Restaurant property rezoned from R-1 to C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
        1978   District.
611     3-1-   Conditional use granted for a residential use on Murphy’s Restaurant property.
        1978
612     3-1-   Property at intersection of Hanson Circle and Spangler rezoned from R-3 to R-
        1978   O Residential Office District.
619     5-17-  525 Normantown Road rezoned from R-4 to R-3 Residential District.
        1978
623     6-21-  Spangler Tract zoned A-1 Agricultural District.
        1978
631     7-5-   Lewis University property zoned R-4 Residential District.
        1978
632     7-5-   Bell Realty property zoned C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District.
        1978
633     7-5-   Vito Falco property zoned C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District.
        1978
634     7-5-   Grabow Park Commercial property zoned C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District.
        1978
635     7-5-   Grabow Park Residential property zoned R-3 Residential District.
        1978
636     7-5-   (A) Haley Farm property zoned R-3 Residential District.
        1978
             (B) Haley Farm property zoned R-4 Residential District (but see Ords. 647 and
               667 below).
638     7-12-  Apollo Restaurant property zoned C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District.
        1978
641     7-19-  Lewis University, south of Airport Road, property zoned C-2 General Commercial
        1978   District.
642     7-19-  Lewis University, south of Airport Road, property
        1978
             zoned R-4 Residential District.
643     7-19-  Lewis University, south of Airport Road, property
        1978
             zoned A-1 Agricultural District.
647     8-2-   (A) Haley Farm property zoned R-3 Residential District.
        1978
             (B) Haley Farm property zoned R-4 Residential District (but see Ord. 667
               below).
667     1-17-  (A) Haley Farm property zoned C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District.
        1979
             (B) Haley Farm property zoned R-3 Residential District.
             (C) Haley Farm property zoned R-4 Residential District.
671     2-21-  Gurrie Rhoads property zoned M-1 Light Industrial District.
        1979
683     4-4-   Vinckus property zoned C-2 General Commercial District.
        1979
694     8-15-  Historic Romeoville property rezoned R-3 Residential District.
        1979
698     11-21- Hampton Park Industrial District, Precision Pallets property rezoned from M-
        1979   2 to M-1 Light Industrial District.
706     12-19- County Board of School Trustees property zoned A-1 Agricultural District.
        1979
743     7-16-  Sec. 13, 14 and 23 of DuPage Township, commonly known as Santa Fe Industrial
        1980   Park from R-1 to M-1 Light Industrial District.
747     8-6-   Certain property in Sec. 29, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E, zoned A-1 Agricultural
        1980   District.
752     8-20-  Certain property in Sec. 15, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E, Lockport Twp., zoned R-
        1980   4 Residential District.
761     12-10- Certain property known as the Alister Tract in Lockport Township rezoned from
        1980   R-4 Residential District to R-3 Residential District.
780     4-1-   Adopting a new zoning map which establishes new zoning clarifications and
        1981   districts within the corporate limits within the village.
783     4-15-  Part of the west half of the northwest quarter of Sec. 26, Twp. 37 N, Range 10
        1981   E, Hayes property, zoned as C-2 General Commercial District.
        9-16-  (A) Lot 1 in Lamplighter Business Park, a subdivision of part of the west half
799     1981   of the northwest quarter of Sec. 26, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E of the Third
               Principal Meridian in Will County, zoned as B-4 Business - Wholesale District.
               (B) Lot in Lamplighter Business Park, a subdivision of part of the west half of
             the northwest quarter of Sec. 26, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E of Third Principal
               Meridian in Will County zoned as B-5 Service-Business District.
               (C) Part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 26 in Twp. 37 N, range 10 E of the
             Third Principal Meridian in Will County lying northerly of the northerly line
               of alternate U.S. Route Number 66 and easterly of the easterly line of
               relocated F.A. Route 61 zoned as B-5 Service-Business District.
843     4-8-   Part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E, 9 E Romeo Road,
        1983   from B-2 to B-5.
        8-3-   The west 1015.46 feet of part of the west half of the northeast quarter of Sec.
860     1983   29, lying northerly of the northerly line of F.A.I. Route no. 55, Twp. 37 N,
               Range 10 E, from A-1 to M-R with a building line variance.
               The west ten acres of part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of
        11-16- Sec. 36, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E to B-4. Also, Lots 34 and 35 in Old Orchard
870     1983   Subdivision of the west half of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter
               and the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Sec. 36, Twp. 37 N, Range
               10 E, to R-4.
        2-1-   A parcel of land in Block 6 of the resubdivision of Hampton Park Industrial
876     1984   District, a subdivision of the east half of the northwest quarter of Sec. 34,
               Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E, from M-1 to B-5.
        2-1-   A portion of Block 3 of the resubdivision of Hampton Park Industrial District,
877     1984   a subdivision of a portion of the south half of Sec. 27 and the north half of
               Sec. 34, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E from M-1 to B-5.
        2-20-  Property located on the east side of Route 53, commonly known as Gonzo’s
905     1985   Restaurant, Romeo Car Wash, Sproco Gas Station, Maryland Fried Chicken,
               Submarine Dock, Romeoville Radiator and Frank’s Super Citgo, from M-1 to B-5.
912     5-1-   The Barone’s Pizza property at 4 E. Devonwood Drive in Hampton Industrial Park,
        1985   from M-1 Medium Manufacturing to B-5 Service Business.
913     5-1-   Parts of the northwest and southwest quarters of Sec. 34, Twp. 37 N, Range 10
        1985   E, from B-2 Limited Business to B-4 Business Wholesale.
961-86  8-6-   A newly-annexed half-acre parcel in the southwest quarter of Sec. 34, Twp 37 N,
        1986   Range 10 E zoned P-1 Public, Private and Conservation Land District.
963-86  8-6-   Part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N, Range 10 E zoned B-
        1986   2 Community Shopping District.
965-86  8-6-   Part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 26, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E zoned B-
        1986   3 Highway/Regional Shopping District.
967-86  8-6-   Newly-annexed parts of the southwest quarter of Sec. 36, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E
        1986   zoned R-5 One-Family Residence.
969-86  8-20-  Part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E zoned R-5 One-
        1986   Family Residence.
978-86  11-19- Rediehs property in Sec. 34, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E, from B-3 Highway Commercial
        1986   to M-1 Light-Medium Manufacturing.
Res.    12-17- Adopting a land use plan for that portion of the village located east of Route
486-86  1986   53 and adjacent to the Hampton Industrial Park.
        9-30-  Portion of property located at Honeytree Drive and Route 53 to R-5 Single-
1018-87 1987   Family Detached Residence, and remainder of same property to B-2 Community
               Shopping.
1046-88 8-3-   Newly annexed part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 27, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E
        1988   zoned M-1 Medium Manufacturing.
1057-88 8-24-  Newly-annexed parts of the northwest quarter of Sec. 33, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E
        1988   zoned B-2 Community Shopping and R-2 Single-Family Residence.
1063-88 9-28-  Lot 49, Sec. 22, Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E to B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping.
        1988
1093-89 3-15-  Ridgewood Business Park rezoned B-3 Highway/ Regional Shopping District.
        1989
2006-89 6-7-   Zoning newly annexed land, described as part of Lot 2 in Unit 2 of Reeds Crest
        1989   of Hill Estates Subdivision to M-1 Light Manufacturing.
        12-21- Zoning newly annexed land, described as part of the southeast quarter of Sec.
2046-89 1989   23, the northeast quarter of Sec. 26 and the northwest quarter of Sec. 25, all
               in Twp. 37 N, Range 10 E.
2057-90 4-18-  Rezoning Lot 1 and Lot 2 in Honeytree Apartment Sites to R-3 Residential.
        1990
               Zoning newly annexed land, described as part of the south 150 feet of the north
        11-28- 200 feet of the west 80 acres of the northwest quarter of Sec. 33, Twp. 37 N to
2073-90 1990   B-2 Community Shopping District and part of the west 80 acres excepting the
               south 150 feet of the north 200 feet of the northwest quarter of Sec. 33, Twp.
               37 N to R-2 Single-Family Residence.
2080-91 1-23-  (A) Zoning newly annexed land described as part of the southwest quarter of the
        1991   northwest quarter of Sec. 16, Twp. 36 N to AD-2 Airport District-2.
             (B) Part of the northwest quarter of Section 15 and that part of the northeast
               quarter of Sec. 16, Twp. 36 N to UD University District.
             (C) Part of the south 70 feet of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter
               of Sec. 15, Twp. 36 N to UD University District.
2081-91 1-23-  (A) Part of Lots 5, 6 and 7 in Fitzpatrick’s Subdivision to UD University
        1991   District.
             (B) Part of the northwest quarter of Sec. 15 and that part of the northeast
               quarter of Sec. 16, Twp. 36 N to UD University District.
             (C) Part of the south 1500 feet of Lots 5, 6 and 7 in Fitzpatrick’s Subdivision
               to AD-2 Airport District-2.
2083-91 1-23-  Zoning newly annexed land, described as part of the northwest quarter of the
        1991   northwest quarter of Sec. 16, Twp. 36 N to AD-1 Airport District-1.
2084-91 1-23-  Lots 10 and 15 in School Trustees’ Subdivision to AD-1 Airport District-1.
        1991
        1-23-  Zoning newly annexed land designated as part of the southwest quarter of Sec.
2088-91 1991   3, Twp. 36 N and part of the southwest quarter of Sec. 3, Twp. 36 N as B-
               1 Local Shopping District.
2097-91 4-17-  Property located on the northeast corner of 135th Street and New Avenue
        1991   intersection to B-3 Highway-Regional Shopping District.
               Zoning newly annexed property legally described and generally depicted with
2107-91 7-10-  Exhibits A, B and C to this ordinance: Exhibit A property is zoned P-B Planned
        1991   Business; Exhibit B property is zoned R-3 Single-Family Residential; Exhibit C
               property is zoned and classified R-4 PUD Attached Residence.
        7-10-  Zoning newly annexed property legally described and generally depicted with
2109-91 1991   Exhibits A and A-1 to this ordinance: Parcels #1, #2, #3 and #4 with Exhibit A-
               1 are zoned B-2 Commercial Shopping.
2112-91 7-10-  Zoning newly annexed property legally described and generally depicted with
        1991   Exhibits A and A-1 to this ordinance are zoned B-2 Commercial Shopping.
Res.    10-2-  Adopting the official zoning map of the village.
790-91  1991
2135-91 10-2-  Zoning newly annexed property legally described and generally depicted with
        1991   Exhibit A to this ordinance is zoned AD-1/Airport District 1.
2154-92 1-22-  Zoning newly annexed property legally described and generally depicted with
        1992   Exhibits A and A-1.
2151-92 2-22-  Zoning newly annexed property legally described and generally depicted with
        1992   Exhibits A and A-1 to this ordinance are zoned in the A-1/Agricultural.
Res.    3-18-  Adopting the official zoning map of the village.
811-92  1992
2200-92 12-9-  Approving the rezoning of 631 Normantown Road from R-3 Single-Family
        1992   Residential to R-5 PUD General Residential.
Res.    4-21-  Approving a county rezoning from I-1 to I-1 with a special use permit at 20560
911-93  1993   Airport Road.
        6-2-   Zoning newly annexed property legally described and generally depicted in the
2222-93 1993   attached Planning Commission Report PC-9303 to this ordinance as M-1 Light/
               Medium Manufacturing.
2237-93 9-1-   Approving the rezoning at 19464 Airport Road from R-5 PUD General Residential
        1993   to the M-1 Light/Medium Industrial.
        9-1-   Approving the rezoning for the Haley Meadows Subdivision from B-2 Community
2238-93 1993   Shopping, R-3 Single-Family Residential and R-4 PUD Attached Residential to all
               R-3 Single-Family Residential.
Res.    12-8-  Approving a county rezoning from A-1 to I-2 at 15523 Weber Road.
966-93  1993
               Zoning newly annexed property legally described and generally depicted with
2274-94 6-15-  Exhibits A, B and C to this ordinance: Exhibit A, Parcel A property is zoned P-
        1994   B Planned Business; Exhibit A, Parcel B property is zoned P-B Planned Business
               and B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping.
Res.    9-7-   Approving a county rezoning for Danial A. Ward to allow for a floral shop.
1062-94 1994
        1-18-  Approving the rezoning of the former Meadowdale Business Park, Normantown Road
2308-95 1995   from R-3, Single-Family Residential and P-B Planned Business District to R-
               4 PUD Attached Residential.
        2-1-   Zoning newly annexed property legally described and generally depicted with
2312-95 1995   Exhibit A to this ordinance: Parcel I is zoned as R-2 Single-Family
               Residential; Parcel II is zoned as M-1 Light/Medium Manufacturing.
2335-95 6-7-   Adopting the official zoning map of the village.
        1995
        7-19-  Zoning newly annexed property legally described and generally depicted with
2350-95 1995   Exhibit A to this ordinance: 15 acres to be classified as B-3 Highway/Regional
               Shopping; and 61 acres to be classified as R-5 General Residential.
Res.    9-20-  Approving a county map amendment from R-6 to I-2 Special Use for “Green-Up
2006-95 1995   Landscape, Inc.,” Lakewood Homes, Inc.
2404-96 3-6-   Classifying the Dean Johnson/Waver Armstrong property as B-3.
        1996
2444-96 12-4-  Approving the rezoning of the Weslake Greens Development 1400 to 1500 W. Taylor
        1996   Road from R-3 to R-4.
2448-96 12-18- Approving the rezoning at 850 to 1050 block of W. Normantown Road, the Catellus
        1996   Development Corporation, from A-1 to P-B.
2463-97 2-19-  Classifying the newly annexed Weslake property as R-4/PUD Attached Residential
        1997   District (five to eight dwelling units per acre).
Res.    2-19-  Acknowledging and not commenting upon the county map amendment of the Dolores
2175-97 1997   E. Bland Trust, 16343 West 135th Street, from A-2 to E-2.
Res.    4-2-   Supporting the county map amendment of the Veleker Property, 19964 W. Taylor
2193    1997   Road, from A-1 to R-3.
2472-97 4-23-  Classifying newly annexed Carrilon Court as B-3.
        1997
2507-97 10-15- Classifying newly annexed Operating Engineers Apprenticeship Training Center as
        1997   P-B.
2510-97 10-15- Classifying newly annexed Hartong Farms Enterprises, Inc. as R-6 and R-7.
        1997
2513-97 10-15- Classifying newly annexed Mistwood Golf Course (IL), Inc. as P-1.
        1997
2516-97 10-15- Classifying newly annexed Malibu Bay Subdivision as R-4 and R-6.
        1997
2519-97 10-15- Classifying newly annexed Heritage Place Subdivision as R-4 and R-6.
        1997
2551-98 4-1-   Classifying newly annexed First Midwest Bank and Walter Vinckus property as
        1998   follows: Parcel I as M-1; Parcel II as B-3; and Parcel III as B-2.
2554-98 5-6-   Rezoning from B-2 to B-3 with a special use permit for the property of 606
        1998   Townhall Drive for a crematorium for Anderson Memorial Chapels.
2563-98 5-20-  Classifying newly annexed Paul Swanson/Fairfield Meadows subdivision property
        1998   as follows: Parcel I as B-3; Parcel II as R-6; and Parcel III as R-7.
        6-3-   Classifying newly annexed territory, the International Union of Operating
2567-98 1998   Engineers, Local 150, Local 150A, Local 150B, Local 150C Building Corporation,
               as B-3.
               Classifying newly annexed territory (Joliet Regional Port District/Lewis
2569-98 6-3-   University Airport) as follows: Parcels 2, 12-1D, 12-2, 13-1 from A-1 to AD-1;
        1998   Parcels 12-1A, 12-1B, 12-1C, 12-1D, 12-3, 12-4, 12-5, 13-2, 19-4 from A-1 to
               AD-2.
2570-98 6-3-   Rezoning/reclassification of certain territory in the Joliet Regional Port
        1998   District as follows: Parcel 11 and Parcel 13-5B.
2573-98 7-1-   Classifying newly annexed territory (Neumann Homes, Inc./Weslake Subdivision)
        1998   as R-4.
2608-98 10-19- Classifying newly annexed territory (Neumann Homes, Inc./Wesglen Subdivision)
        1998   as R-5 and R-6.
Res.    10-21- Approving rezoning for Cambridge at Carillon Parcel #35 from Will County C-6 to
2285-98 1998   Will County R-6.
Res.    10-21- Supporting the rezoning of the Lewandowski property, 17459 West 143rd Street,
2286-98 1998   Will County.
2610-98 10-21- Rezoning certain territory for the Wesglen Subdivision from R-4 to R-5 and R-6.
        1998
2611-98 10-21- Rezoning certain territory for the Wesglen Subdivision Airport Road Venture 40
        1998   property from R-6 to R-5.
Res.    11-4-  Supporting the County Map amendment of the Kroll Property, 15947 West 135th
2294-98 1998   Street, Will County.
        4-5-   Classifying newly annexed territory (Lakewood Homes/Lakewood Falls Phase 5) as:
2647-99 1999   residential parcel of the property to R-6; commercial parcel of the property to
               B-2.
2651-99 4-5-   Approving/publishing the official zoning map of the village (April 1999).
        1999
2652-99 4-19-  Classifying newly annexed territory (Amli Will County Properties Limited
        1999   Partnership) as P-B.
Res.    6-7-   Supporting the rezoning of Delcumbray Inc., 12228 New Avenue, Will County, from
2338-99 1999   I-3 to I-3 with a special use permit.
        10-6-  Classifying approximately 11.471 acres of annexed property as a B-3 Zoning
2708-99 1999   District pursuant to the agreement between Romeoville Properties, LLC and DRH
               Cambridge Homes, Inc.
2714-99 12-1-  Classifying territory annexed in the agreement between the village and Pizzuti
        1999   Equities, Inc. as P-B Planned Business District.
2751-00 4-19-  Approval and adoption of the updated zoning map.
        2000
2760-   5-17-  Classifying territory annexed in the agreement between the village and Amli
00-020  2000   Will County Limited Partnership.
2777-00 8-2-   Zoning property located on the north side of 135th Street east of Weber Road,
        2000   consisting of 75.8 acres as R-5 and R-7.
01-01   1-17-  Rezoning property located at 641 Independence to B-4, Automotive Service.
        2001
22-01   1-24-  Classifying territory annexed in the agreement between the village and Pizzuti
        2001   Equities, Inc., consisting of approximately 227 acres as P-B and B-3.
        1-24-  Classifying territory annexed in the agreement between the village and Pizzuti
23-01   2001   Equities, Inc., consisting of approximately 67 acres as P-B Planned Business
               District.
        1-24-  Classifying territory annexed in the agreement between the village and Pizzuti
26-01   2001   Equities, Inc., consisting of approximately 120 acres as P-B Planned Business
               District.
29-01   2-7-   Rezoning property located at 641 Independence Boulevard, consisting of 0.46
        2001   acres, from B-3 to B-4.
        2-21-  Classifying territory annexed in the agreement between the village and Pizzuti
39-01   2001   Equities, Inc., consisting of approximately 145 acres as P-B Planned Business
               District.
46-01   3-14-  Classifying newly annexed territory (Ord. 44-01) as R-4, R-5 and B-3.
        2001
50-01   3-21-  Approval and adoption of the updated zoning map.
        2001
76-01   6-20-  Classifying newly annexed territory (Ord. 75-01) as P-B Planned Business
        2001   District.
89-01   8-15-  Classifying newly annexed territory (Ord. 87-01) as M-1 Manufacturing District.
        2001
95-01   9-5-   Classifying newly annexed territory (Ord. 91-01) as P-B Planned Business
        2001   District.
0016-02 3-6-   Approval of the updated zoning map.
        2002
0024-02 4-17-  Classifying newly annexed territory as R-4 Single-Family Residential.
        2002
0030-02 5-15-  Classifying newly annexed territory as P-B Planned Business District.
        2002
0047-02 7-17-  Rezoning certain territory owned by Marquette’s Estates as R-5 Single-Family
        2002   Residential.
0065-02 9-18-  Approving zoning of Dollinger Farms, consisting of 63.4 acres, as R-4 PUD
        2002   Single-Family Residential.
0085-02 11-20- Rezoning certain territory owned by Lakewood Estates as R-3 Single-Family
        2002   Residential.
0096-02 12-4-  Rezoning certain territory owned by Lakewood Homes, Inc. to B-3 Highway/
        2002   Regional Shopping.
0014-03 3-19-  Classifying newly annexed territory owned by Ryan US Companies, Inc. as P-
        2003   B Planned Business District.
0020-03 3-19-  Approval of the updated zoning map.
        2003
        4-16-  Rezoning of Hampton Park Subdivisions no. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12
0034-03 2003   and 13; Honeytree Subdivision Unit 5; Poplar Ridge Resubdivision; and Poplar
               Ridge Subdivision Unit no. 1 as R-5A Single- Family Residential.
03-0083 2-4-   Zoning property located on the north side of Taylor Road, one mile west of
        2004   Weber Road, across from Marquette’s Crossing West to B-1 Local Shopping.
03-0104 2-18-  Rezoning of downtown, consisting of 40 acres to be zoned DD Downtown District.
        2004
04-0133 3-17-  Updating the zoning map to comply with state statutes.
        2004
04-0161 7-21-  Zoning a property located at the south side of Normantown Road, west of the
        2004   ComEd right-of-way.
        8-18-  Zoning of property located on the north side of Airport Road approximately
04-0176 2004   three- fourths mile east of Weber Road and approximately one and one-half miles
               west of Independence Boulevard.
04-0180 8-18-  Zoning a property located approximately three-fourths mile east of Weber Road
        2004   and approximately one and one-half miles west of Independence Boulevard.
05–0263-16-  Approving an updated zoning map.
        2005
05-0277 6-1-   Rezoning property located at 301 Normantown Road to R-3 Single-Family
        2005   Residential with a special use permit for a church and school.
05-0282 6-15-  Rezoning certain property located at 765 and 775 N. Independence Boulevard as
        2005   B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping.
05-0283 6-15-  Rezoning certain property located directly behind 765 and 775 N. Independence
        2005   Boulevard as M-1 Medium Manufacturing.
05-0294 7-6-   Classifying newly annexed territory, Gully Property, as P-B Planned Business.
        2005
05-0298 8-3-   Classifying newly annexed territory, Carlson Brothers/South Creek Enterprises,
        2005   LLC Property, as P-B Planned Business.
        9-21-  Approving zoning of property, located on the east side of South Creek Parkway
05-0316 2005   approximately one-half mile north of Airport Road and one-quarter mile south of
               Taylor Road, as AD-2 Airport District.
05-0324 10-5-  Approving zoning of property, known as the Margaret Kozak Farm, as AD-2 Airport
        2005   District.
05-0326 10-5-  Approving zoning of property, known as the Material Service Property, as AD-
        2005   2 Airport District.
05-0328 10-5-  Approving zoning of property, known as the Fitzpatrick House and located at
        2005   15701 S. Independence Boulevard, as AD-2 Airport District.
05-0330 10-5-  Approving zoning of property, known as the Margaret Kozak Farm, as AD-2 Airport
        2005   District.
05-0345 12-21- Approving zoning of property, located at the northwest corner of Budler Road
        2005   and Airport Road, as B-2 Community Shopping.
        12-21- Rezoning Lot 2 in Bluff Point, consisting of approximately 22.229 acres, from
05-0351 2005   B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping and M-1 Medium Manufacturing to P-B Planned
               Business.
06-0380 3-15-  Approving the updated zoning map.
        2006
        5-3-   Approving zoning of property located on the north side of Renwick Road,
05-0318 2006   approximately one mile east of Weber Road and one and one-fourth miles west of
               Independence Boulevard as AD-1.
05-0320 5-3-   Approving zoning of property located on the south side of Airport Road,
        2006   approximately one-half mile east of Weber Road as AD-2.
        5-17-  Approving zoning of property located on the north side of Normantown Road, west
06-0406 2006   of Rodgers Road and east of the ComEd Right-of-Way as R-4 PUD Single-Family
               Residential.
        9-20-  Approving zoning of property located one- third mile north of Romeo Road,
06-0453 2006   northwest of the Romeoville Recreation Center and east of the detention ponds
               at Marquette’s Estates as A-1 Agricultural.
07-0518 3-21-  Approving the updated zoning map.
        2007
07-0533 5-16-  Approving the zoning of property located at the northeast corner of Romeo Road
        2007   and Independence Boulevard as B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping.
07-0570 9-5-   Approving the zoning of territory consisting of 2.6 acres located at 20345 W.
        2007   Normantown Road as P-B Planned Business.
07-0578 9-5-   Approving the rezoning of territory consisting of 2.6 acres located at 20345 W.
        2007   Normantown Road as P-1 Public Private Land Conservation.
        9-19-  Approving the zoning of territory consisting of four lots totaling two and one-
07-0580 2007   half acres located at the northeast corner of Romeo Road and Independence
               Boulevard as B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping.
        9-19-  Approving the zoning of territory consisting of two lots totaling 78.18 acres
07-0582 2007   located on the south side of Taylor Road, one-half mile west of IL 53 as P-
               B Planned Business.
        2-20-  Approving the rezoning of territory consisting of four lots totaling 59± acres
08-0634 2008   located on the north side of Romeo Road, one-half mile east of Weber Road as P-
               1 Public/Private and Land Conservation.
        3-5-   Approving the rezoning of territory consisting of 1 lot totaling 28.77 acres
08-0640 2008   located on the south side of Bluff Road, one-half mile east of Joliet Road as
               P-B Planned Business.
08-0664 5-21-  Approving the rezoning of property located at 737 Oakridge Drive as P-B Planned
        2008   Business.
        1-7-   Approving the zoning of territory, consisting of 5 lots totaling 41.279 acres,
08-0674 2009   as B-3 Highway/Regional Shopping District and M-R Light Manufacturing/ Research
               District.
09-0750 3-18-  Approving the official zoning map of 2009.
        2009
        3-3-   Approving the zoning of the property known as the Renwick Road Parcel or Lewis
10-0823 2010   Parcel Six located on the north side of Renwick Road in Lockport Township as
               AD-2 Airport District.
        3-3-   Approving the zoning of property known as the Kozak Farmstead or Lewis Parcels
10-0825 2010   Seven and Eight located on the north side of Renwick Road in Lockport Township
               as AD-2 Airport District.
        3-3-   Approving the zoning of property known as the Joseph Kozak House or Lewis
10-0827 2010   Parcel Nine located on the north side of Renwick Road in Lockport Township as
               AD-2 Airport District.
10-0835 3-17-  Approving the official zoning map of 2010.
        2010
11-0907 5-18-  Approving the official zoning map of 2011.
        2011
        9-7-   Approving the zoning of P-1 for several properties surrounding the Mistwood
11-0920 2011   Golf Course generally located on the north side of Renwick Road in Lockport and
               Plainfield Townships.
12-0969 3-21-  Approving the official zoning map of 2012.
        2012
12-0997 7-11-  Approving the zoning of parcels located in the Forest Preserve District,
        2012   consisting of 236.7 acres, as P-1.
13-1042 5-15-  Approving the official zoning map of 2013.
        2013
        5-15-  Amending the future land use map designation from Detached Residential
13-1045 2013   Neighborhood to Warehouse and Distribution for the property at 12250 Veterans
               Parkway.
13-1066 10-16- Approving rezoning of property located at 101 Airport Road from R-5 to U-D.
        2013
14-1103 4-2-   Approving the official zoning map of 2014.
        2014
15-1179 3-18-  Approving the official zoning map of 2015.
        2015
15-1174 5-6-   Approving the zoning of territory located at 20340 Airport Road and 20352
        2015   Airport Road as P-B.
14-1139 7-1-   Approving the zoning of 160 N. Independence Boulevard as B-2.
        2015
15-1192 7-1-   Approving the zoning of 1881 W. Normantown Road as P-B.
        2015
15-1203 8-5-   Approving the rezoning of Lewis Airport Southcreek building from A-D2 to P-B.
        2015
15-1213 9-2-   Approving the rezoning of property for the Springs at Weber Road Apartments by
        2015   Continental Properties at Rose Plaza from B-3 to R-7.
15-1223 10-21- Approving the rezoning of multiple parcels at 10, 11, 13, 17 and 18 Montrose
        2015   Drive as P-1 and Land Conservation.
15-1226 11-4-  Approving the zoning of property along the Des Plaines River and 135th Street
        2015   as P-1.
15-1251 1-6-   Approving the zoning of the property located at the southeast corner of Airport
        2016   Road and Weber Road as B-3.
15-1236 1-20-  Approving the zoning of 20413 and 20401 W. Airport Road as P-B.
        2016
16-1267 3-16-  Approving the official zoning map of 2016.
        2016
16-1281 5-18-  Approving the zoning of 15 lots of the Airport Industrial Center as P-B.
        2016
16-1264 7-6-   Approving the rezoning of property at the northwest corner of Illinois Route 53
        2016   and Romeo Road from P-1 to B-3.
16-1293 7-6-   Approving the zoning of property at the southeast corner of Airport Road and
        2016   Weber Road as B-4.
16-1307 9-7-   Approving the rezoning of property at the southwest corner of Normantown Road
        2016   and Michigan Drive from R-3 to P-1.
17-1357 4-5-   Approving the official zoning map of 2017.
        2017
17-1361 12-6-  Approving the zoning of a 29.8-acre parcel, running north and south from
        2017   Renwick Road to Normantown Road, as P-1.
17-1428 12-6-  Approving the zoning of Airport Logistics Center, consisting of 79.95 acres, as
        2017   P-B.
17-1425 12-20- Approving the zoning of Interchange 55 Logistics Park, consisting of 112.58
        2017   acres, as P-B.
18-1466 2-21-  Approving the official zoning map of 2018.
        2018
18-1489 7-18-  Proposing the creation of the Normantown Road Business District no. 1.
        2018
18-1521 11-7-  Proposing the creation of the Normantown Road Business District no. 1.
        2018
18-1517 12-19- Approving the zoning of PAL Group, Inc., as P-B.
        2018
19-1536 2-6-   Designating Normantown Road Business District no. 1 as a Business District.
        2019
19-1542 3-6-   Approving the official zoning map of 2019.
        2019
19-1545 3-20-  Rezoning Ramco property at 1400 N. Independence Boulevard from B-3 to M-1.
        2019
19-1547 3-20-  Rezoning LDD Business Center property at 1414 to 1440 N. Bolingbrook Drive from
        2019   B-3 to M-1.
19-1560 5-1-   Approving the zoning of U-Haul property at 681 S. Weber Road as B-3.
        2019
20-1629 4-1-   Approving the official zoning map of 2020.
        2020
20-1642 8-19-  Approving the zoning of a parcel, consisting of 21.761 acres, as R-7.
        2020
20-1649 8-19-  Approving the zoning of 1300 N. Joliet Road (Triangle parcel) as M-1.
        2020
21-1682 2-17-  Approving zoning of 62.33 acres as P-B.
        2021
21-1689 3-3-   Approving rezoning of Pine Trail Park at the corner of Honeytree Drive and
        2021   Independence Boulevard from B-2 and R-3 to P-1.
21-1690 3-3-   Approving the official zoning map of 2021.
        2021
21-1715 10-6-  Approving the zoning of 23.141 acres as B-3, formerly known as the Walsh
        2021   parcel.
21-1744 12-15- Approving the rezoning of 68.4 acres from A-D2 to P-B.
        2021
22-1760 3-2-   Approving the official zoning map of 2022.
        2022
22-1779 5-18-  Rezoning territory located at 759 Dalhart Avenue from B-1 to R-5.
        2022
22-1769 6-1-   Approving the zoning of territory known as Weber 55 Logistics Park as P-B.
        2022
22-1781 6-1-   Approving the zoning of territory, consisting of approximately 9.2 acres to P-
        2022   B.
23-1827 3-15-  Approving the official zoning map of 2023.
        2023
23-1842 6-7-   Approving the zoning of territory, Romeoville Investors Land Holding (Hampton
        2023   Manor).
23-1888 12-20- Approving the rezoning of territory, NR 1 Transport, Inc. at 1385 N Joliet
        2023   Road.
24-1898 2-7-   Approving the rezoning of territory, Paterna Properties, LLC at 201 E Romeo
        2024   Road.
24-1895 2-21-  Approving the official zoning map of 2024.
        2024
24-1916 9-4-   Approving the zoning of territory - Edward Rose Properties, Inc. (Monarch
        2024   Grove).
25-1965 3-19-  Approving the official zoning map of 2025.
        2025
              
 
TABLE XII: VARIANCES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  10-21- Granting variance to lot size requirement for the use of Lot 8 in Block 11 of
145-  1981   Hampton Park subdivision number 11 as a church by the Romeoville Church of God.
81
Res.  4-21-  Granting variance to Amos Hatton to permit erection of a room addition at 420
184-  1982   Montrose Drive.
82
Res.  6-2-
194-  1982   Granting sign variance to 84 Lumber Company.
82
849   5-4-   Granting variance to Honeytree Homeowners’ Association for construction of a
      1983   fence.
854   5-18-  Granting height variance for a garage at 217 Gordon Avenue.
      1983
Res.  7-20-  Granting side yard variance to Richard Giemzik for a garage at 637 Belmont
271-  1983   Drive.
83
Res.  8-3-   Granting side yard variance to Larry C. George for a garage at 312 Hemlock
272-  1983   Avenue.
83
Res.  9-7-   Granting rear yard variance to Clifford Dorian for building addition at 525 E.
280-  1983   Romeo Road.
83
Res.  10-5-
283-  1983   Granting side yard variance to Robert C. Storm for porch reconstruction.
83
868   11-16- Granting three variances to C M Realty Co., Inc. from setback requirements.
      1983
Res.  4-18-  Granting side yard variance to Wilson S. Stonebraker Jr. for installation of an
322-  1984   in-ground swimming pool at 200 Freemont.
84
Res.  5-2-   Granting side yard variance to Frank A. Valderrama for a carport at 812 Murphy
326-  1984   Drive.
84
Res.  7-11-  Granting rear yard variance to Manual Gonzales for a detached garage at 308
338-  1984   Hemlock.
84
Res.  2-6-   Granting variance to Speedway Oil Company for a freestanding sign on
379-  1985   Independence Boulevard.
85
908   4-3-   Granting variance to McDonald’s Corporation to allow an increase in height of
      1985   an existing free standing sign on property located at 1300 Marquette Drive.
Res.  5-15-
394-  1985   Granting nine-foot front yard variance to James Tilghman for 520 Arlington.
85
919   6-19-  Granting reduction in setback requirements to McKesson Corporation to permit
      1985   construction of an addition to an existing facility at 1355 Enterprise Drive.
Res.  9-4-   Authorizing side yard and front variance for American Forklifter, 684 Phelps
415-  1985   Avenue.
85
Res.  9-4-   Approving height and area variance to allow placement of a free standing sign
416-  1985   at Aruba Restaurant, 345 Independence Boulevard.
85
Res.  11-20- Authorizing side yard variance for 50 Phelps Avenue to allow construction of an
427-  1985   addition to First Bank of Romeoville.
85
Res.  12-18-
430-  1985   Granting sign variance to Sandra Young for 22 to 28 Phelps Avenue.
85
Res.  4-16-  Granting a sign variance to Burger King Restaurant at 340 Independence
449-  1986   Boulevard.
86
Res.  8-20-
465-  1986   Authorizing an additional sign at Romeo Car Wash, 2 Greenwood Avenue.
86
Res.  9-3-   Authorizing height variance for garage at 728 Hillcrest as requested by William
468-  1986   Blisard.
86
Res.  10-8-
474-  1986   Granting sign variance for Dairy Queen, 29 Alexander Circle.
86
Res.  10-22- Authorizing sign variance for C.J. Bonner Company’s Mini-U-Storage facility at
481-  1986   1302 Marquette Drive.
86
Res.  11-5-  Granting a front yard variance to Dr. Richard Wojcik, doing business as The Eye
483-  1986   Doc, for enlargement of his business at 330 Spangler Drive.
86
Res.  4-1-   Granting side and rear yard variance to Donald Ostrowski for 735 Hudson, for
508-  1987   the purpose of building a detached garage.
87
Res.  4-1-   Granting, with conditions, a side yard variance to James Otruba for the purpose
509-  1987   of building an attached garage and room addition at 311 Tallman.
87
Res.  6-3-   Granting a side yard variance to Brian and Elizabeth Burrington for the
519-  1987   building of a detached garage at 309 Montrose.
87
Res.  6-3-   Granting to Ronald Schlueter a side and rear yard variance for 449 Arnold for
520-  1987   the purpose of building a detached garage.
87
2035- 10-18- Granting a variance to allow an increase in allowable size of signage on
89    1989   property located at 17 Alexander Circle.
2038- 11-1-  Granting a variance for property located on the 100 block of 135th Street.
89    1989
2065- 9-5-   Authorizing a sign setback variance at 330 Spangler Drive.
90    1990
2067- 9-19-  Authorizing an enlargement to a non-conforming building, Boomerang’s
90    1990   Restaurant.
2089- 2-6-   Authorizing a use variance for Dr. Bruce Granath, 32 Arlington.
91    1991
2101- 5-15-  Authorizing a variance to the required setback for Uno-Ven, northeast corner
91    1991   New Avenue/135th Street.
2103- 5-15-  Authorizing a variance to the required side yard setback for 227 Healy Avenue.
91    1991
2020- 8-7-   Approving the sign variance at Spartan Square, southwest corner of State Route
91    1991   53, Phelps Road.
2125- 9-4-   Granting a variance at 514 Fenton Avenue to allow for the construction of an
91    1991   open carport in the required north side yard.
2138- 10-16- Granting a variance at 519 Montrose Drive to allow for the construction of an
91    1991   18 feet by 30 feet room addition in the required north side yard.
2145- 12-4-  Granting a variance at 725 Delta Avenue to allow for the construction of a room
91    1991   addition.
2285- 8-3-   Authorizing a variance for the property known as 78 Rock Road.
94    1994
2294- 9-21-  Authorizing a variance to the rear yard setback on the property known as 738
94    1994   Newland Avenue.
2324- 4-5-   Authorizing a setback variation from ten feet to five feet for the property
95    1995   known as 701 N. Independence Boulevard.
2336- 6-7-   Authorizing a front yard setback variation from 35 feet to 30 feet for the
95    1995   property known as 344 N. Independence Boulevard.
2398- 2-21-  Authorizing a sign variation to Cracker Barrel Old County Store.
96    1996
2418- 5-1-   Authorizing a variation for American Stores, Inc. for a change in parking lot
96    1996   and sign sizes.
Res.  6-5-
2103- 1996   Supporting a front yard variance for 14013 South Adel Court, Plainfield, IL.
96
2431- 7-17-  Approving a variance to the sign ordinance for Howard Johnson.
96    1996
2439- 10-2-  Authorizing a variation to Ryder Truck, Inc. for stormwater management.
96    1996
2449- 12-18- Authorizing a variation at the Randell residence, 747 Yates Avenue.
96    1996
Res.  2-19-  Supporting the county zoning variance to the Haney/Gielerak property on Bluff
2179- 1997   Road.
97
2496- 9-17-  Denying a parking variance to McDonald’s Corporation.
97    1997
2497- 9-17-  Allowing for a signage variance to the McDonald’s Corporation.
97    1997
2498- 9-17-  Denying a signage variance to McDonald’s Corporation.
97    1997
2499- 9-17-  Allowing for a signage variance to the McDonald’s Corporation.
97    1997
2578- 6-17-  Allowing for variances to Chapter 158 for Romeoville Retail Center, 401 to 499
98    1998   N. Weber Road.
2596- 9-16-  Allowing for a variance to Chapter 158 for David and Kerry Nowak, 702 Roof
98    1998   Avenue.
Res.  2-16-  Supporting the map amendment and lot width variance for the Nitchoff Property,
2311- 1999   16055 West 135th Street, Will County, IL.
99
2658- 5-3-   Allowing for a variance to Chapter 158 for Lunan Corporation, 1245 Lakeview
99    1999   Drive.
2659- 5-3-   Allowing for a variance to Chapter 158 for Ulta3 Corporation, 1135 Arbor Drive.
99    1999
2698- 10-6-  Approving a zoning variance to the Recreation Department for a parking setback
99    1999   at Century Park.
Res.  11-17- Approving a zoning variance to Lou’s Styling Place for a parking setback at 225
2413- 1999   Romeo Road.
99
2739- 3-1-   Approving a zoning variance to Community Homebuilders for a rear yard building
00    2000   setback at 400 Julia Drive.
Res.  4-5-   Approving a request by Vanguard Community Management for additional signs in
2473- 2000   Wespark.
00
Res.  4-5-   Approving a variance to Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation for a 3:1 side slope for
2481- 2000   a detention facility on the east side of Schmidt Road in the Crossroads
00           Business Park.
2752- 4-5-   Approving a zoning variance to Richard and Sue Emler for a rear yard setback at
00    2000   300 N. Independence Boulevard.
2783- 8-2-   Approving a corner side yard setback variance at Lot 171, Haley Meadows.
00    2000
2785- 9-6-   Variance for the increase of the permitted signage for property located on
00    2000   Outlot 2 of Romeoville Towne Center Shopping Center.
2796- 10-11- Variance for a gravel parking lot and for narrower truck parking stall widths
00    2000   at National Trailer Repair.
2797- 10-11- Variance for increase in allowable number of trailer parking spaces and for a
00    2000   decrease in trailer parking stall width for OPUS North Corporation.
2799- 10-11- Zoning variance to allow smaller parking spaces and narrower aisle widths at
00    2000   the Romeoville Recreation Center.
2794- 10-18- Sign variance at the Romeo Plaza.
00    2000
2805- 11-1-  Setback reduction variance to reduce the setback at 78 Rock Road to 12 feet.
00    2000
      2-21-  Approving a zoning variance to Mid-America Bank for an increase in the
41-01 2001   permitted signage for property located on Lot 5 in William Shiner’s
             resubdivision. (Lot has not yet been platted.)
47-01 3-7-   Approving a variance to Scott Serfling for a decrease in the minimum lot
      2001   dimensions required by the zoning ordinance.
54-01 4-4-   Approving a zoning variance to William Beahan II for a decrease in the required
      2001   front yard setback at 1 Alexander Circle - corner of Route 53.
      5-16-  Approving a variance to Robert Vander Woude for an increase in permitted
60-01 2001   signage for property located at the northwest corner of Independence Boulevard
             and Phelps Avenue (Route 66 Plaza).
      6-6-   Approving a zoning variance to Brian Andersen for a reduction in the side yard
73-01 2001   building setback for property located at Marquette Center Business & Industrial
             Park, Lot 12.
99-01 10-10- Approving a Development Code variance for the setback requirement on the
      2001   Lowlands Conservancy Overlay District.
0015- 3-6-   Approving a zoning variance to Ed Mayes for a reduction in the front yard
02    2002   parking setback from 25 feet to 3.91 feet along the southern property line.
0021- 3-20-  Approving a variance to Frank Zygmut from the tree replacement requirements of
02    2002   the zoning code.
0035- 5-15-  Approving a zoning variance to Leah Perez for a reduction in the rear yard
02    2002   setback from ten feet to seven feet.
0037- 6-12-  Approving a zoning variance to Heidi Eisnaugle for a reduction in the required
02    2002   side yard setback.
0038- 6-12-  Approving a variance to Palgroup, Inc. for use of asphalt grindings as parking
02    2002   surface.
0039- 6-19-  Approving a zoning variance to Jewel Shopping Center for increases in signage.
02    2002
0005- 2-5-   Approving a zoning variance to Kehe Foods for an increase in allowable building
03    2003   height.
0007- 2-19-  Approving a zoning variance to Walter Vinckus for the installation of gazebos
03    2003   in the front yard of property located at 800 N. Independence Boulevard.
0016- 3-19-  Approving a zoning variance to Twin Oaks Carpet & Decorating Center for the
03    2003   redistribution of wall signage on the property.
0018- 3-19-  Approving zoning variances and development code variances to Ryan Companies US,
03    2003   Inc. for certain tract of land described in Exhibit “A.”
0028- 4-2-   Approving variance to the development regulations for Southwest Quad,
03    2003   Interstate 55 and Weber Road.
0038- 6-4-   Approving development code variance for Sam’s Club, channel relocation.
03    2003
0044- 7-2-   Approving zoning variance to 647 to 649 N. Independence Boulevard for increase
03    2003   in allowable signage.
03-   9-17-  Approving signage variance to 1160 W. Remington Drive to allow a 165 square
0058  2003   foot wall sign.
03-   10-15- Approving zoning variance for a fence at 4 Kenilworth Avenue.
0066  2003
03-   11-5-  Approving zoning variance for CarQuest addition, located at 900 N. Independence
0067  2003   Boulevard.
03-   11-5-  Approving development code variances for property located at 726 Washington
0076  2003   Street.
03-   11-19- Approving variances for Creekside.
0079  2003
04-   5-19-  Approving development code variances for property located in the Old Orchard
0150  2004   Subdivision, Lots 34 and 35.
04-   6-2-   Approving a zoning variance for the Metropolitan Industries Building Addition.
0152  2004
04-   9-15-  Approving a zoning variance for Ace Hardware signage.
0182  2004
04-   10-6-  Approving a zoning variance for 735 S. Mecosta rear yard setback.
0188  2004
05-   4-20-  Approving a zoning variance for 1574 Benzie Circle - rear yard setback
0269  2005   variance.
05-   9-21-  Approving a zoning variance for McDonald’s Route 53 - sign variance.
0322  2005
06-   7-19-  Approving zoning variance for 35 Arlington - rear yard setback variance.
0421  2006
06-   7-19-  Approving zoning variance for 360 Ascot - construction of a four foot shadow
0425  2006   box fence.
06-   9-20-  Approving zoning variance for 433 Arnold Avenue - construction of a detached
0454  2006   garage.
06-   10-18- Approving zoning variance for 916 Harvard Court - seven-foot encroachment.
0457  2006
07-   6-20-  Extending a variance for a portion of the property commonly known as the
0546  2007   Palumbo Property.
07-   12-5-  Approving zoning variance for 46 Beacon Avenue - construction of a detached
0613  2007   garage.
08-   9-17-  Approving variance for 690 Wellston - construction of a 3 season sunroom on the
0711  2008   rear of the home.
09-   8-5-   Extending a variance for a portion of the property commonly known as the Pal
0773  2009   Group Property.
10-   3-17-  Approving variance request from Verizon Wireless.
0815  2010
10-   3-17-  Approving variance request from Verizon Wireless.
0817  2010
10-   3-17-  Approving variance request from Verizon Wireless.
0818  2010
10-   10-6-  Approving variance for a three-season room at 671 Wellston Lane.
0877  2010
10-   10-6-  Approving variance for a three-season room at 1656 Benzie Circle.
0878  2010
11-   3-2-   Approving variance for a detached garage at 601 Palmer Avenue.
0901  2011
12-   6-6-   Approving a variance for a porch and a deck at 601 Superior Drive.
0988  2012
15-   10-21- Approving a variance for signage for Magid Glove and Safety Manufacturing
1219  2015   Company at 1300 Naperville Drive.
16-   3-16-  Approving a variance for the rear parking lot setback for 1352 Enterprise
1263  2016   Drive.
16-   5-18-  Approving a variance for the Weber Road project.
1283  2016
16-   9-7-   Approving a variance to the zoning code for side yard setbacks from 551 S.
1309  2016   Dollinger Drive and 569 S. Dollinger Drive.
16-   9-7-   Granting a variance from the provisions of Chapters 91 and 150 for 1125
1313  2016   Remington Boulevard.
16-   9-21-  Approving a variance to the zoning code for Amazon signage.
1317  2016
17-   4-5-   Approving a variance to the stormwater ordinance for the Spangler Property.
1358  2017
18-   9-5-   Approving a variance for a garage for 720 Geneva Avenue.
1492  2018
18-   11-7-  Establishing a temporary suspension of certain signage regulations and fees for
1520  2018   the Weber Road/I-55 Interchange Project.
20-   12-16- Granting a variance to permit a maximum travel access distance in excess of 400
1677  2020   feet for 501 W. Taylor Road.
21-   5-19-  Approving a variance to the stormwater ordinance (Chapter 57) for Duke Realty
1702  2021   Limited Partnership (Airport Logistics Center Phase II).
21-   12-15- Approving a variance to the stormwater ordinance (Chapter 57) for PDC Chicago
1746  2021   LPIV, LLC (Panattoni at Lewis Airport).
22-   3-2-   Approving a variance to the stormwater ordinance (Chapter 57) for Bridge
1756  2022   Industrial Acquisition, LLC (Gully Property).
22-   4-20-  Granting a variance from the provisions of Chapter 150 (building - electrical -
1774  2022   conductors - 501 W. Taylor Road).
23-   2-1-   Granting a variance from the provisions of Chapter 91 (Fire Prevention - §
1822  2023   91.08 - existing buildings and structures - 442 N. Weber Road).
25-   8-20-  Granting a variance from the provisions of Chapter 150 (building - electrical -
1996  2025   continued use of natural gas for emergency generator) for the Joliet Regional
             Port District Storage Hangar Project at 405 Jim Klick Drive.
            
 
TABLE XIII: SPECIAL USE PERMITS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
840   1-19-  Operation of a tavern by MRS Corporation at 201 E. Romeo Road.
      1983
844   4-8-   Operation of a tavern by Walter Vinckus and Beverly Vinckus at 9 E. Romeo
      1984   Road.
909   4-3-   Placement of a carpet sales and service operation by Twin Oaks Carpet Center
      1985   in Unit 1 of 1224 Independence Boulevard.
Res.  2-5-   Renovation and occupancy of structures at 651 N. Independence Boulevard for
440-  1986   establishment of a muffler repair shop to be known as Muffler King.
86
942-  3-6-   Placement of Muffler King repair store at 652 N. Independence Boulevard.
86    1986
945-  4-2-   Placement by Joseph Troha of an automobile sales facility at 639 N.
86    1986   Independence Boulevard.
1030- 3-16-  Construction of a Quick Oil Change facility at 657 N. Independence Boulevard.
88    1988
Res.  3-3-   Approving a county special use permit amendment for the Carillon Development
892-  1993   on Weber Road.
93
2209- 4-7-   Approving a special use permit for 639 N. Independence Boulevard.
93    1993
2210- 4-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development for Romeoville
93    1993   Gardens, 631 Normantown Road.
2284- 8-3-   Authorizing a special use permit for property known as 78 Rock Road.
94    1994
Res.  9-7-   Approving a county special use permit for the Carillon Golf Club, Fairway Golf
1060- 1994   Group.
94
Res.  9-7-   Approving a county special use permit for Jerrold F. Fallon and Frances F.
1061- 1994   Fallon.
94
2315- 2-1-   Authorizing a special use permit for the property commonly known as 759 Luther
95    1995   Drive.
2394- 1-3-   Authorizing a special use permit for a planned unit development (Louis Trapp,
96    1996   Gat Construction).
Res.  5-1-
2096- 1996   Supporting the special use permit for Fast Break Family Billiards.
96
2436- 8-21-  Authorizing special use permit for a planned unit development (High Pointe
96    1996   Woods, Phase II).
2440- 10-2-  Amending Ord. 2372-95 special use permit for 639 N. Independence Boulevard -
96    1996   Diamond Motorworks.
2441- 10-16- Approving a special use permit for Amoco Oil Company at 680 N. Independence
96    1996   Boulevard.
2474- 5-7-   Approving a special use permit for 3 East 135th Street, Freedom Baptist
97    1997   Church.
2494- 9-3-   Approving a special use permit for Wespark Subdivision/Phase #1, Neumann
97    1997   Homes, Inc.
Res.  11-5-  Supporting the special use permit for Texaco Refining and Marketing, 301 W.
2229- 1997   Second Street, Lockport, IL 60441.
97
2539- 4-1-   Authorizing a special use permit for a used car dealership.
98    1998
2552- 4-1-   Authorizing a special use permit for a planned unit development.
98    1998
2564- 5-20-  Authorizing a special use permit for a planned unit development.
98    1998
2599- 8-19-  Authorizing a special use permit for cellular panels at Country Inns & Suites,
98    1998   1265 Lakeview Drive.
2643- 3-1-   Authorizing special use permit for dog grooming without boarding.
99    1999
2648- 4-5-   Approving special use permit for Lakewood Falls Phase 5.
99    1999
Res.  5-17-  Supporting a county special use permit for the Dawson Property to place a
2332- 1999   driveway through a flood plain to access the property located at 135th South
99           Star Lane, Will County, IL.
2668- 6-7-   Amending a special use permit, 639 Independence Boulevard.
99    1999
2667- 6-18-  Authorizing a special use permit, 639 Independence Boulevard.
99    1999
2708- 10-6-  Authorizing Cambridge Homes to proceed with the special use permit.
99    1999
2709- 10-6-  Approving the PUD special use permit, Romeoville Properties, LLC.
99    1999
Res.  11-17- Approving the amendment to a special use permit for Low Price Auto to increase
2408- 1999   the number of permitted vehicles on the lot.
99
Res.  1-19-  Approving the Collision Revision special use permit for development of an auto
2432- 2000   body repair shop on Lot 25 of the Romeoville Commercial Industrial Park.
99
2722- 1-19-  Approving the amendment to the PUD for Hamlins at Highpoint to construct
99    2000   detached and attached single-family units.
2748- 4-15-  Approving a special use permit for a PUD for property located at the north
00    2000   side of Airport Road, immediately east of I-55 and west of Budler Road.
2776- 7-19-  Approving a special use permit for property located at 721 N. Independence
00    2000   Boulevard for outdoor food and liquor sales.
2778- 7-19-  Approving a special use permit for property located on the south side of
00    2000   Airport Road between Weber Road and Budler Road for single-family detached
             houses.
2779- 7-19-  Approving a special use permit for property located on the south side of
00    2000   Taylor Road west of Wesglen Parkway for single-family detached houses.
2781- 8-2-   Approving a special use permit for property located on the south side of
00    2000   Taylor Road west of Wesglen Parkway for single-family detached houses.
2811- 12-20- Approving a special use permit for a PUD for property located at the northwest
00    2000   corner of Weber Road and Airport Road.
2812- 12-20- Approving a special use permit for a PUD, allowing a second single story
00    2000   office building, for property located at 30 Phelps Avenue.
40-01 2-21-  Approving a special use permit for property located at Lot 5 in William
      2001   Shiner’s resubdivision (not yet platted) for drive-through banking facilities.
46-01 3-14-  Approving a special use permit for a PUD located at the property described in
      2001   Ord. 44-01.
53-01 4-4-   Approving a special use permit for a PUD located at the northwest corner of
      2001   Taylor Road and Troxel Road.
74-01 6-20-  Approving a special use permit for a PUD located at the northeast corner of
      2001   Illinois Route 53 and Phelps Avenue for a Lazerwash car wash.
90-01 9-19-  Approving a special use permit for a PUD located on the south side of Taylor
      2001   Road, approximately one-fourth mile west of Weber Road.
0012- 2-20-  Approving a special use permit for Doug Belha (Super Wash, Inc.) to allow a
02    2002   car wash in the B-3 Zoning District.
0031- 5-15-  Approving a special use permit for construction of a restaurant in Lot 3 of
02    2002   the Carillion Court Resubdivision.
0032- 5-15-  Approving a special use permit for construction of 155 single-family detached
02    2002   homes and 116 townhomes.
0034- 5-15-  Approving a special use permit to Lakewood homes for construction of Lakewood
02    2002   Falls 7C.
0046- 7-17-  Approving a special use permit to Marquette’s Estates, LLC for construction of
02    2002   176 single-family detached homes and 65 duplex houses.
0048- 7-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development in Lot 1 in
02    2002   Weber and Normantown Second resubdivision.
0071- 10-2-  Approving a special use permit for Jewel Express Car Wash.
02    2002
0078- 11-6-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development for the
02    2002   expansion of the All World Storage Facility.
0002- 1-8-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development for construction
03    2003   of a new commercial building at the corner of Independence Boulevard and
             Phelps Avenue.
0017- 3-5-   Approving a special use permit to Twin Oaks Carpet & Decorating Center for an
03    2003   establishment specializing in carpet, floor and wall covering sales and
             service.
0019- 3-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development for construction
03    2003   of a 2,780 square foot Popeye’s Restaurant in the Normantown Center
             Subdivision.
0026- 3-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
03    2003   development plan for the construction of a retail development at the northeast
             corner of Airport Road and Budler Road.
0027- 3-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
03    2003   development plan for the construction of 176 single-family detached houses and
             65 duplex houses (resulting in 130 duplex units).
0031- 4-2-   Approving special use permit for planned unit development to allow the
03    2003   construction of 155 single-family detached homes and 116 townhome units.
0043- 7-2-   Approving special use permit for a welding school at 1315 Enterprise Drive.
03    2003
0045- 7-2-   Approving special use permit for planned unit development to allow the
03    2003   construction of a single 185 square foot double-faced monument sign on Lot 5
             or Lot 6 of the Carillon Court Subdivision.
0050- 8-20-  Approving special use permit for the final development plan component of a
03    2003   planned unit development for the Garrett Enterprises PUD at 199 W. Romeo Road.
03-   9-3-   Approving special use permit for planned unit development for Lakewood Center
0055  2003   Retail, Lot 2.
03-   9-3-   Approving special use permit for planned unit development for a White Castle
0056  2003   located at Lot 1, Normantown Center.
03-   9-3-   Approving special use permit for planned unit development for Marquette Bank
0057  2003   branch located on north side of Airport Road, just east of Budler Road.
             Approving special use permit for planned unit development for construction of
03-   10-1-  a 12,155 square foot Community Arts and Children Center for Community
0064  2003   Christian Church on Lot 2 in Highpoint Woods Phase II on the Highpoint Town
             Square.
03-   10-1-  Approving special use permit for a planned unit development for a four-lot
0068  2003   retail development at Weber Road and Grand Haven Circle.
03-   10-1-  Approving special use permit for a planned unit development for a Walgreens at
0069  2003   Weber Road and Grand Haven Circle.
03-   10-15- Approving special use permit for a planned unit development for the commercial
0071  2003   project at the southwest corner of Airport Road and Weber Road.
03-   11-19- Approving special use permit for a planned unit development for Creekside,
0073  2003   South Commercial Portion.
03-   11-19- Approving special use permit for a planned unit development for Creekside
0080  2003   North.
04-   2-4-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0111  2004   development plan regarding signage for White Castle in the Normantown Center
             Commercial Development.
03-   3-3-   Approving a special use permit for Mickey’s Grille-n-Pub.
0081  2004
04-   3-3-   Approving a special use permit for the final development plan component of a
0107  2004   planned unit development for Lakeview - Phase I.
04-   4-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0138  2004   development plan for Bank of America, HighPoint Plaza Lot 4.
04-   5-5-   Approving a special use permit for the final development plan component of a
0143  2004   planned unit development for St. Andrew the Apostle Church.
             Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
04-   5-19-  development plan to allow the construction of a 10,000 square foot multi-
0149  2004   tenant retail building as Phase 2 on Lot 2 of Williams Subdivision at the
             southwest corner of Weber Road and Taylor Road.
04-   6-2-   Approving a special use permit for the final development plan component of a
0153  2004   planned unit development for Stone Bluff.
04-   7-21-  Approving a special use permit for schools for Valley View CUSD.
0162  2004
04-   8-18-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0174  2004   development plan for Normantown Square.
04-   9-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development for Taco Bell/
0181  2004   Long John Silver, Williams Sub Lot 6.
04-   9-15-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development for Wendy’s,
0187  2004   Williams Sub Lot 5 04-52B.
04-   10-6-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development plan for
0189  2004   Lifetime Fitness.
04-   10-6-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development plan for Big Run
0190  2004   Driving Range, Mikan 04-76a.
04-   11-3-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development plan for
0206  2004   Creekside North.
04-   11-17- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development plan for Grand
0216  2004   Haven Marketplace Retail Center.
04-   12-15- Approving a special use permit for a self service storage facility, S-Cubed
0213  2004   Storage, 03-65C.
04-   12-15- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development plan for S-Cubed
0214  2004   Storage, 03-65F.
05-   2-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development plan for
0244  2005   Intertek Caleb Brett.
05-   2-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0245  2005   development plan - Rose Plaza of Romeoville.
05-   2-16-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0247  2005   development plan - for Normantown Square Commercial Development.
05-   3-2-   Approving a special use permit for an amendment to the planned unit
0248  2005   development for Greenhaven Duplexes.
05-   4-6-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a Restaurant/Pub -
0250  2005   Mickey’s Grille-n-Pub.
05-   6-1-   Approving a special use permit for planned unit development - Bennish Autowash
0275  2005   and Quick Lube.
05-   6-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0278  2005   development plan - Bible Baptist Church for school and church.
05-   7-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0289  2005   development plan - Greenhaven at Meadowdale.
05-   8-23-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0301  2005   development plan - Argonne Credit Union, Rose Sub Lot 8.
05-   9-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0308  2005   development plan - Brunswick Zone.
05-   9-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0309  2005   development plan - Able Masonry.
05-   9-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0314  2005   development plan - Big Run Driving Range.
05-   10-5-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0331  2005   development plan - Valley View Transportation and Maintenance Facility.
05-   12-7-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0338  2005   development plan - American Sale.
05-   12-7-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0339  2005   development plan - Pollman.
05-   12-7-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0340  2005   development plan - Galassi Stone.
05-   12-7-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0342  2005   development plan - Huskies International Ice Centre.
05-   12-7-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0343  2005   development plan - Highpoint Square, Williams Sub Lot 2 Phase III.
05-   12-21- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0350  2005   development plan - Bluff Point Lot 2.
06-   2-1-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
0368  2006   development - final development plan - American Sale.
06-   3-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0375  2006   development plan - Airport Industrial Center.
06-   4-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0398  2006   development plan - Windham Lakes Southwest Quad, Building 2.
06-   5-3-   Approving a special use permit for electric wholesale - Concord Electric.
0407  2006
06-   5-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0384  2006   development plan - Budler Retail Center.
06-   5-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0399  2006   development plan - Budler Retail Center.
06-   5-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0404  2006   development plan - Misty Ridge.
06-   5-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0413  2006   development plan - Comcast.
06-   6-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0418  2006   development plan amendment - Huskies International Ice Centre.
06-   6-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0419  2006   development plan - Citgo temporary parking lot.
06-   8-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0433  2006   development plan - Romeoville Crossings.
06-   8-16-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0436  2006   development plan - Speedway redevelopment.
06-   8-16-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0437  2006   development plan - Rubloff Retail Center and Target.
06-   9-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0443  2006   development plan - Gas City Carwash.
06-   9-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0444  2006   development plan - Romeoville Commercial Lots 13 and 14.
06-   9-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0451  2006   development plan - Angelus Retirement Community.
06-   9-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0455  2006   development plan - Rose Plaza.
06-   10-18- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0461  2006   development plan - Lockport Township Fire Station.
06-   11-1-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0422  2006   development plan - Taylor Road Retail - Centerville Properties.
06-   11-1-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0462  2006   development plan - Target.
06-   11-1-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0465  2006   development plan - Paragon Business Park.
06-   1-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0502  2007   development plan - Creme de la Creme.
06-   2-7-   Approving a special use permit for a communication tower - McDonald’s.
0506  2007
07-   3-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0513  2007   development plan - Rubloff Phase 1.
07-   3-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0517  2007   development plan - Citgo Control Building.
07-   4-4-   Approving a special use permit for Bolingbrook Community Church.
0522  2007
07-   5-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0529  2007   development plan - McDonald’s (Rose Plaza).
07-   6-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0534  2007   development plan - Walgreen’s.
07-   6-20-  Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
0544  2007   development - final development plan - American Sale PUD amendment.
07-   6-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0545  2007   development plan - Windham Lakes Southwest Quad Building 3.
07-   7-18-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0559  2007   development plan - Windham Lakes Southwest Quad Building 4.
07-   8-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0567  2007   development plan - Chase Bank.
07-   8-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0572  2007   development plan - Paragon Building #1 at 550 W. Taylor Road.
07-   8-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0573  2007   development plan - Paragon Building #2 552 to 588 W. Taylor Road.
07-   8-15-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0575  2007   development plan - Adcock Building Expansion.
07-   8-15-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0576  2007   development plan - Fifth Third Bank.
07-   9-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0581  2007   development plan - Walgreen’s.
07-   9-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0583  2007   development plan - Corporate Corridors of Romeoville.
07-   9-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0584  2007   development plan - McDonald’s 2007 renovations.
07-   10-17- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0571  2007   development plan - Fire Station no. 3.
07-   10-17- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0596  2007   development plan - Great Kitchens.
07-   11-21- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0609  2007   development plan - School of Expressive Arts and Learning (SEAL).
08-   2-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0629  2008   development plan - Chili’s.
08-   2-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0630  2008   development plan - Smart Medical Technologies.
08-   2-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0631  2008   development plan - Kohl’s.
08-   2-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0635  2008   development plan - new Village Hall site.
08-   3-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0636  2008   development plan - AutoZone.
08-   3-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0641  2008   development plan - Bluff Point III
08-   4-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0644  2008   development plan - Weber Town Center.
08-   4-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0645  2008   development plan - Rasmussen.
08-   5-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0658  2008   development plan - Windham Lakes Southwest Quad Building 5.
08-   5-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0665  2008   development plan - 737 Oakridge Drive.
08-   6-18-  Repealing Ord. 08-0644 - Weber Town Center.
0681  2008
08-   6-18-  Repealing Ord. 08-0645 - Rasmussen College.
0682  2008
08-   7-16-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0686  2008   development plan - CGI.
08-   8-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0690  2008   development plan - Airport Industrial Lots 20 and 21.
08-   8-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0696  2008   development plan - Weber Town Center.
08-   9-3-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0699  2008   development plan - 801 N. Schmidt.
08-   9-3-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development – final
0701  2008   development plan - Romeoville Crossings Outlot 4.
08-   10-15- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0720  2008   development plan - Airport Industrial Lot 15.
08-   11-5-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0721  2008   development plan - Windham Industrial Center III - PODS container storage.
08-   12-17- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0731  2008   development plan - 1287 Naperville Drive.
08-   12-17- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0732  2008   development plan - 1303 Naperville Drive.
08-   1-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0675  2009   development plan and a gasoline service station - Meijer.
09-   1-21-  Approving a special use permit for Little Explorers Christian Montessori
0743  2009   School.
09-   3-18-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0753  2009   development plan - Kehe Foods Dock Addition.
09-   4-15-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0755  2009   development plan - Fire Station no. 2.
09-   4-15-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0757  2009   development plan - Bennett & Brosseau Roofing.
09-   5-20-  Approving amendment to the planned unit development - final development plan -
0761  2009   American Sale.
09-   6-3-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a restaurant/pub -
0768  2009   Mickey’s Grille-n-Pub.
09-   6-3-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
0769  2009   development - general development plan - Creekside, South Commercial Portion.
09-   6-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0758  2009   development plan - Jewel Osco and Jewel Express.
09-   9-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0780  2009   development plan - International Hauling, Inc.
09-   11-18- Approving an amendment to the planned unit development - final development
0791  2009   plan - Senior Star Signage.
10-   1-20-  Approving an amendment to the planned unit development - final development
0813  2010   plan - Creme de la Creme.
10-   2-17-  Approving an amendment to the planned unit development - final development
0821  2010   plan - 801 N. Schmidt Road.
10-   3-17-  Approving a special use permit for a personal communication facility in a B-
0814  2010   3 District.
10-   3-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0834  2010   development plan - 1165 Arbor Drive building and parking expansion.
10-   5-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0851  2010   development plan - Amsysco parking expansion.
10-   5-5-   Approving an amendment to the planned unit development - general development
0855  2010   plan - Romeoville Crossings.
10-   5-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0858  2010   development plan - Firestone.
10-   6-9-   Approving an amendment to a special use permit for a planned unit development
0854  2010   - final development plan - Lot 2 of Normantown Center.
10-   7-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0868  2010   development plan - Bible Baptist Church.
10-   7-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0869  2010   development plan for signage for Circle K and Shell Gas Station at 1285
             Lakeview Drive.
11-   2-16-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
0900  2011   development plan for Lewis University.
10-   3-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development for the
0885  2011   development of 715 to 721 Independence Boulevard.
11-   5-18-  Approving a special use permit for Mickey’s Grille-n-Pub for outdoor dining at
0908  2011   377 Budler Road in the Lakewood Retail Center.
11-   6-15-  Approving special use permit for a car wash at 715 and 721 N. Independence
0909  2011   Boulevard.
11-   6-15-  Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
0910  2011   development for the development of 715 to 721 N. Independence Boulevard.
11-   7-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0915  2011   development plan for National Tire and Battery.
11-   7-20-  Approving an amendment to a special use permit for a planned unit development
0916  2011   - final development plan for Lot 2 of Normantown Center.
11-   9-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0921  2011   development plan for Mistwood Golf Course.
12-   2-1-   Approving an amendment to a special use permit for a planned unit development
0965  2012   - final development plan for Lazerwash located at 651 N. Independence
             Boulevard.
12-   3-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0970  2012   development plan for the R.C. Hill site development.
12-   7-11-  Approving an amendment to a special use permit for a planned unit development
0989  2012   - final development plan for signage for Circle K and Shell Gas Station at 10
             South Weber Road.
12-   7-11-  Approving special use permit for a church in a B-2 Zoning District located at
0992  2012   300 to 318 S. Budler Road.
12-   7-11-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0993  2012   development plan for Spectrum Technologies.
12-   7-11-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0998  2012   development plan for Paragon Building D-2.
12-   7-18-  Approving special use permit for a church at 1251 Windham Parkway.
0991  2012
12-   7-18-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
0999  2012   development plan for Trail Terminal located at 721 Parkwood Avenue.
12-   9-5-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1005  2012   development - final development plan for S-Cubed Storage.
12-   10-2-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1010  2012   development plan for Lots 2 and 7 Romeoville Crossings.
12-   12-5-  Approving a special use permit for and amendment to a planned unit development
1019  2012   - final development plan for signage for Edward Quick Care Clinic.
13-   3-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1040  2013   development plan for the Romeoville Athletic and Event Center.
13-   7-2-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1053  2013   development - final development plan for the Kehe Foods fence.
13-   7-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1054  2013   development plan for the G.E. Booth Development.
13-   7-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1055  2013   development plan for Grand Haven Marketplace Lot 2.
13-   10-23- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1068  2013   development plan for a car wash located at Outlot 6 in Romeoville Crossings
             Subdivision.
13-   11-20- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1069  2013   development plan for the Citgo Gas Station located at 415 New Avenue.
14-   2-5-   Approving a special use permit for a restaurant serving liquor in the B-
1088  2014   2 Zoning District located at 350 to 352 S. Budler Road.
14-   3-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1098  2014   development plan for Goodwill located at Lot 7, 8 and 9 in Creekside South
             Commercial Subdivision.
13-   4-2-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1064  2014   development - final development plan for the Venegoni Commercial Center
             (Carillon Court II).
14-   4-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1104  2014   development plan for Cicero Plastics located at 121 Anton Drive.
14-   6-18-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1118  2014   development plan for Duke Realty located at 1341 Enterprise Drive.
14-   7-2-   Approving a special use permit for the Christian Faith Church at 1233 and 1237
1124  2014   Windham Parkway.
14-   7-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1126  2014   development plan for Aryzta South Creek 10.
14-   8-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1132  2014   development plan for the Spangler Parcel by Pizzuti.
14-   10-1-  Approving a special use permit for vehicle sales in the M-1 Medium
1137  2014   Manufacturing District at Driven Motorsports Sales, Inc., located at 1243
             Naperville Drive.
14-   10-1-  Approving a special use permit for truck sales for MHC Trucking located at
1141  2014   1250 Lakeside Drive.
14-   11-5-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1145  2014   development plan for McDonald’s located at 645 N. Independence Boulevard.
14-   12-3-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1148  2014   development plan for Ashley Furniture Industries (Lot 1 of Boldt Park).
14-   12-17- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1163  2014   development plan for Value Place Hotel located at 1045 Windham Parkway.
14-   2-4-   Approving a special use permit for a wireless telecommunication facility for
1147  2015   SAC Wireless for Verizon Wireless and Central States Tower at 691 Parkwood
             Avenue.
15-   5-6-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1175  2015   development - general development plan for ARY Romeoville IL Landlord, LLC.
14-   7-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1140  2015   development plan for VNA Health Care at 160 N. Independence Boulevard.
15-   7-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1193  2015   development plan for Molto Properties at 1881 W. Normantown Road.
15-   8-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1201  2015   development plan for Car Care Collision Center at 1301 Naperville Drive.
15-   8-5-   Approving a special use permit for a restaurant serving liquor at Reilly’s
1202  2015   Roadhouse at 201 E. Romeo Road.
15-   8-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1204  2015   development plan for the Lewis Airport Southcreek Building by Panattoni.
15-   8-5-   Approving a special use permit for a medical cannabis dispensary for Midwest
1205  2015   Compassion Center at 1335 Lakeside Drive, Unit 4.
15-   8-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1206  2015   development plan for Burger King on Independence Boulevard.
15-   9-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1211  2015   development plan for Fat Ricky’s Restaurant/Franconi’s Grocery at Uptown
             Square.
15-   9-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1214  2015   development plan for the Springs at Weber Road Apartments by Continental
             Properties at Rose Plaza.
15-   9-16-  Approving a special use permit for alcohol sales and service in the M-1 Medium
1217  2015   Manufacturing District for a microbrewery at 515 Anderson Drive, Unit 900,
             Metal Monkey Brewing.
15-   10-5-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1212  2015   development plan for the Pal Group Retail Building at Uptown Square.
15-   10-21- Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1220  2015   development - final development plan for Ashley Furniture at 1045 W.
             Crossroads Parkway.
15-   10-21- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1222  2015   development plan for Presence Healing Arts Pavilion on Outlot 10 of Romeoville
             Crossings.
15-   10-21- Approving a minor amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1224  2015   development - final development plan for Brunswick Zone at 735 N. Center
             Boulevard.
15-   11-18- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1230  2015   development plan for Vynera Trucking at 1330 Enterprise Drive.
15-   12-16- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1215  2015   development plan for A-1 Storage at 1149 Frontage Road.
15-   1-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1252  2016   development plan for Blain’s Farm & Fleet.
15-   1-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1237  2016   development plan for Airport Road Holdings, LLC for properties at 20413 and
             20401 W. Airport Road.
16-   2-17-  Approving a special use permit for a clean construction and demolition debris
1257  2016   facility for Hanson Material Service.
16-   5-18-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1282  2016   development plan for Seefried at Airport Industrial Center.
16-   7-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1265  2016   development plan for the Troutman and Dams Development at the northwest corner
             of Illinois Route 53 and Romeo Road.
16-   7-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1266  2016   development plan for Thorntons.
16-   7-6-   Approving a special use permit for Luck Penny’s at 656 N. Independence
1289  2016   Boulevard.
16-   7-6-   Approving a special use permit and a special use permit for a planned unit
1291  2016   development - final development plan for Romeoville Toyota.
16-   7-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1294  2016   development plan for Abbott Land Gateway, LLC.
16-   7-6-   Authorizing a special use permit to establish and conduct underground mining
1295  2016   in an M-2 Zoning District.
16-   7-6-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1297  2016   development plan for Romeoville Express Car Wash.
16-   9-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1310  2016   development plan for Valley View 365U Community School District Administration
             Center.
16-   9-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1311  2016   development plan for DCT at 5 Greenwood.
16-   10-5-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1321  2016   development plan for Venture One at 1200 Schmidt Road.
16-   11-2-  Approving a minor change to the existing special use permit for a planned unit
1325  2016   development - final development plan for signage changes to Fat Ricky’s
             Restaurant.
16-   11-16- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1328  2016   development plan for 1120 to 1140 Remington Boulevard (Room Place signage).
16-   11-16- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1329  2016   development plan for Lot 8 of Romeoville Crossings for Heartland Dental.
16-   1-4-   Approving a special use permit for the Romeoville Area Historical Society.
1342  2017
16-   1-4-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1343  2017   development plan for All World Storage (315 N. Independence Boulevard).
17-   2-1-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1345  2017   development - final development plan for Aldi.
17-   2-1-   Approving a special use permit for a communication tower for Eco Site at 1202
1346  2017   N. Independence Boulevard.
17-   3-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1352  2017   development plan for Highpoint Town Square Apartments.
16-   5-3-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1327  2017   development plan for Village Place Apartments by Edward Sons and S.R.
             Jacobson.
17-   5-3-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1365  2017   development - final development plan for the CN Group at 525 Anderson Drive.
17-   7-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1364  2017   development plan for B & W Truck Repair at 667 Parkwood Avenue.
17-   7-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1384  2017   development plan for Village Place Apartment by Edward Rose and Sons and S.R.
             Jacobson Development Corporation.
17-   7-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1392  2017   development plan for Murphy Oil.
17-   10-18- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1412  2017   development plan for IDI at Gateway.
17-   11-15- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1413  2017   development plan for Thorntons at Gateway.
17-   12-6-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1418  2017   development plan amendment for Rose Plaza.
17-   12-6-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1429  2017   development plan for Airport Logistics Center.
17-   12-20- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1426  2017   development plan for Interchange 55 Logistics Park.
18-   2-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1465  2018   development plan for the Offices at Windham Lakes Building 3 (OWL 3).
18-   3-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1469  2018   development plan for Illini Precast at 551 S. Independence Boulevard.
18-   3-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1470  2018   development plan for Holiday Inn Express.
18-   4-18-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1475  2018   development plan for Checker’s.
18-   4-18-  Approving a special use permit for a restaurant serving liquor and operating
1476  2018   an outdoor patio in the B-2 Zoning District - La Tortuga Feliz.
18-   7-18-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1485  2018   development plan for Troutman and Dams Lot 5 (Joe’s Beverage Warehouse and
             Additional Retail).
18-   9-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1495  2018   development plan for Interland Transportation at 1315 Lakeside Drive.
18-   9-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1497  2018   development plan for Viga Design & National Express Carriers.
18-   9-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1498  2018   development plan for Gateway Truck Wash.
18-   10-3-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1506  2018   development plan for Vynera at Gateway.
18-   11-7-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1516  2018   development plan for Dog Haus.
18-   12-19- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1518  2018   development plan for PAL Group, Inc.
19-   3-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1546  2019   development plan for Ramco at 1400 N. Independence Boulevard.
19-   3-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1548  2019   development plan for the LDD Business Center at 1414 to 1440 N. Bolingbrook
             Drive.
19-   5-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1561  2019   development plan for U-Haul at 681 S. Weber Road.
19-   6-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1571  2019   development plan for Jiffy Lube at 1332 W. Airport Road.
19-   6-5-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1572  2019   development plan for AFC at 780 S. Weber Road.
19-   7-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1579  2019   development plan for Ryder at 1290 Enterprise Drive.
19-   7-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1580  2019   development plan for Romeo V Development, LLC on the west side of Weber Road
             between 135th Street and N. Carillon Drive.
19-   2-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1597  2020   development plan for Mongo’s signage at 1101 N. Independence Boulevard.
20-   8-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1643  2020   development plan for FRED-Romeoville HC, LLC (Seasons of Romeoville).
20-   8-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1650  2020   development plan for the LDD Properties, LLC at 1300 N. Joliet Road (Triangle
             parcel).
20-   10-21- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1659  2020   development plan for Popeye’s at 421 S. Weber Road.
20-   12-16- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1674  2020   development plan for Bonus Electric at 1400 Bluff Road.
21-   2-3-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1680  2021   development plan for the Arby’s Plaza at 470 to 474 S. Weber Road.
21-   2-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1684  2021   development plan for Duke Realty Limited Partnership (Airport Logistics Center
             Phase II).
21-   2-17-  Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1685  2021   development - general development plan for Duke Realty Limited Partnership
             (Airport Logistics Center).
21-   3-3-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1688  2021   development plan for the Romeoville Aquatic Center at 630 Townhall Drive.
21-   3-17-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1691  2021   development plan for Calvary International Baptist Ministry at 201 W. Romeo
             Road.
21-   5-5-   Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1697  2021   development - final development plan for Able Masonry (645 Parkwood Avenue).
21-   5-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1701  2021   development plan for Duke Realty Limited Partnership (Airport Logistics Center
             Phase II).
21-   8-4-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1713  2021   development plan for Starbucks at 470 N. Independence Boulevard.
21-   8-18-  Approving a special use permit for Victory Chapel at 3 E. Romeo Road.
1720  2021
21-   9-15-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1725  2021   development plan for Care Cremation Center at 33 E. Montrose Drive.
21-   10-6-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1716  2021   development plan for Suncera Motor Cars, Inc. (Mercedes Benz of Romeoville).
21-   12-15- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1743  2021   development plan for Belle Tire at 620 S. Weber Road.
21-   12-15- Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1745  2021   development plan for PDC Chicago LPIV, LLC (Panattoni at Lewis Airport).
21-   12-15- Approving a special use permit for truck sales for QTA Repairs Inc. - 1318 to
1747  2021   1320 Marquette Drive.
22-   3-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1755  2022   development plan for Bridge Industrial Acquisition, LLC (Gully Property).
22-   3-2-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1759  2022   development plan for Freddy’s at 440 S. Weber Road.
22-   5-18-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1778  2022   development plan for clean energy at 300 S. Southcreek Parkway.
22-   6-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1770  2022   development plan for Molto Properties, LLC (Weber 55 Logistics Park).
22-   6-1-   Amendments to a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1782  2022   development plan for 815 Independence, LLC; 765 Independence, LLC; and 753
             Independence, LLC.
22-   6-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1783  2022   development plan for Jimmy John’s at 310 N. Independence Boulevard.
22-   6-15-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1784  2022   development plan for 1409 Joliet Road.
22-   6-15-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1785  2022   development plan for ML Realty at 1203 Lakeview Drive.
22-   9-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1790  2022   development plan for 724 Parkwood (Emecole).
22-   9-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1791  2022   development plan for 671 N. Weber Road (Dunkin Donuts).
22-   9-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1792  2022   development plan for the QT Retail Development (southwest corner of Weber &
             Normantown).
22-   9-21-  Approving a special use permit for a cannabis infuser, processor and
1796  2022   transporter for Elevated Organics at 1209 to 1211 Remington Boulevard.
22-   11-15- Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1799  2022   development - final development plan for Airport Industrial Lot 13, 14 and 15.
23-   2-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1817  2023   development plan for Taco Bell at 643 N. Independence Boulevard.
23-   2-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1818  2023   development plan for 639 N. Independence Boulevard.
23-   2-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1819  2023   development plan for Palencia, LLC at 251 S. Pinnacle Drive.
23-   3-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1823  2023   development plan for Towneplace Suites at 1280 Windham Parkway.
23-   3-1-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1824  2023   development plan for Burger King at 431 S. Weber Road.
23-   4-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1844  2023   development plan for 765 Independence, LLC.
23-   6-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1843  2023   development plan for Romeoville Investors Land Holding (Hampton Manor).
23-   7-19-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1857  2023   development plan for Kiddie Academy at 1311 W. Airport Road.
23-   10-18- Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1867  2023   development - general development plan for Duke Realty Limited Partnership
             (Airport Logistics Center).
23-   11-1-  Approving a special use permit for a cannabis dispensing organization for
1866  2023   Midwest Compassion Center, LLC (Verilife) at 412 Weber Drive.
23-   11-1-  Approving a minor change to the existing special use permit for a planned unit
1870  2023   development - general development plan (Ord. 21-1716) for Fields Auto Group
             (Mercedes-Benz of Romeoville).
23-   12-20- Approving a special use permit for truck sales - 8 Greenwood Avenue.
1887  2023
23-   12-20- Approving a special use permit for planned unit development - final
1889  2023   development plan for NR 1 Transport, Inc. at 1385 N. Joliet Road.
24-   2-7-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1899  2024   development plan for Paterna Properties, LLC at 201 E. Romeo Road.
24-   2-21-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1900  2024   development plan for Sable Creek Winery, LLC (1876 W. Airport Road).
24-   9-4-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - general
1917  2024   development plan for Edward Rose Properties, Inc. (Monarch Grove).
24-   9-18-  Approving a special use permit for a cannabis infuser, processor and
1933  2024   transporter for GCF Industries, Inc. at 1413 Sherman Road Unit 90.
24-   9-18-  Approving a special use permit for Christian Congregation Church at 1233
1934  2024   Naperville Drive.
25-   2-5-   Approving a special use permit for a cannabis transporter for Secure
1961  2025   Transport, LLC at 649 Parkwood Ave.
25-   4-16-  Approving an amendment to the special use permit for a planned unit
1974  2025   development - final development plan for Midwest Convenience Stores, Inc. (DBA
             Rebel Convenience Stores) at 1300 W. Normantown Road.
25-   7-9-   Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1986  2025   development plan for Romeo Town Center Holdings, LLC.
25-   8-20-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
1994  2025   development plan for 35 Forestwood Drive.
25-   10-15- Approving a special use permit for automobile repairs and car sales for Bimmer
2012  2025   House, LLC at 1426 Sherman Road.
25-   12-3-  Approving a special use permit for a planned unit development - final
2018  2025   development plan for 679 N. Weber Road (Hawaiian Bros Island Grill).
25-   12-3-  Approving a minor change to the existing special use permit for a planned unit
2028  2025   development - final development plan (Ord. 23-1889) for 17SHOLAS, Inc.
            
 
TABLE XIV: FINAL PLATS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  4-6-
249-  1983   LaVergne Woods Subdivision Unit 1.
83
Res.  2-5-   Authorizing issuance of building permit for construction of a Mister Donut shop
438-  1986   at the northwest corner of Spangler Drive and Phelps Avenue, whereas applicant
86           intends to submit the necessary plat of resubdivision.
948-  5-21-  Subdivision Unit 1 of the Rediehs property in the Romeoville Industrial Park.
86    1986
Res.  4-1-   Resubdivision for C.M. Realty Company of certain lots in Marquette Center
506-  1987   Business and Industrial Park Unit 1.
87
Res.  5-6-   Subdivision for Romeoville Commercial Park unit 2 for certain property along the
515-  1987   east side of Route 53.
87
Res.  6-3-   Resubdivision and granting of side yard variances for Lot 9 in Marquette
517-  1987   Industrial Park Phase 1.
87
Res.  6-3-
518-  1987   Resubdivision of part of Block 2 in Parkdale Shopping Center.
87
Res.  5-15-
757-  1991   Approving a plat of Resubdivision no. 2 of the Windham Lakes Subdivision.
91
Res.  8-21-  Approving the plat of dedication for one-half R.O.W. on Town Hall Drive, Phelps
779-  1991   Avenue R.O.W. and drainage ditch on E. Phelps Avenue.
91
Res.  12-9-  Approving the preliminary development plan for a planned unit development 631
874-  1992   Normantown Road.
92
Res.  1-6-
876-  1993   Approving a plat of Resubdivision no. 3 of the Windham Lakes Business Park.
93
Res.  4-21-  Approving the final plat of subdivision of Romeoville Gardens, a planned unit
909-  1993   development located at 631 Normantown Road.
93
Res.  4-21-  Approving the final development plans for a Planned Unit Development at 631
910-  1993   Normantown Road.
93
Res.  5-19-  Approving the preliminary/final plat of subdivision and infrastructure
915-  1993   improvements for the Romeoville Commercial/Industrial Park Unit no. 2.
93
Res.  9-1-   Approving the preliminary plat of subdivision and preliminary engineering for
944-  1993   the Haley Meadows Subdivision on the south side of Normantown Road.
93
Res.  9-15-  Approving the final platting - Phase 1, final engineering - Phase 1 and
953-  1993   stormwater management and floodplain management plans for the Haley Meadows
93           Subdivision on the south side of Normantown Road.
Res.  11-17-
961-  1993   Approving the lot split in the Windham Lakes Business Park, 1220 Lakeview Court.
93
Res.  5-18-  Approving the lot split in the Windham Lakes Business Park, 1280 Windham
1032- 1994   Parkway.
94
Res.  5-18-  Approving a preliminary plat of subdivision for the Lakewood Falls Subdivision,
1034- 1994   Lakewood Homes, Inc.
94
Res.  6-15-
1037- 1994   Approving a final plat of subdivision for the Pines of Romeoville.
94
Res.  7-6-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Unit 1, Pods 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the
1048- 1994   Lakewood Falls Subdivision.
94
Res.  8-3-
1051- 1994   Approving the lot split in the Windham Lakes Business Park, 1305 Lakeview Drive.
94
Res.  10-5-  Approving a preliminary plat of subdivision for the Lakewood Falls Subdivision,
1073- 1994   Unit #2, Lakewood Homes, Inc.
94
Res.  11-2-  Approving the lot split in the Windham Lakes Business Park, 1200 Windham
1079- 1994   Parkway.
94
Res.  12-7-  Approving the lot split on Devonwood Avenue, known as the Oxford Bank
1091- 1994   Subdivision.
94
Res.  2-1-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for the Lakewood Falls Subdivision, Unit
1109- 1995   #2 - Pods 11, 10 and 18.
95
Res.  4-19-  Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering for the Lakewood
1147- 1995   Falls Subdivision, Unit #3, Pod 16.
95
Res.  4-19-  Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering for the Lakewood
1148- 1995   Falls Subdivision, Unit #2, Pod 20.
95
Res.  7-5-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for the Lakewood Falls Subdivision, Unit
1175- 1995   #3, Pod 15.
95
Res.  8-2-
1183- 1995   Approving the lot split in the Windham Lakes Business Park, 1275 Lakeview Drive.
95
Res.  8-2-
1184- 1995   Approving the lot split in the Windham Lakes Business Park, 1135 Arbor Drive.
95
Res.  8-2-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for the Lakewood Falls Subdivision, Unit
1185- 1995   #3, Pod 14.
95
Res.  8-2-   Approving a preliminary plat of subdivision and preliminary engineering for the
1187- 1995   Romeoville Commercial Park, Unit #2.
95
Res.  10-4-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for “The Oaks of Ridgewood Subdivision,”
2009- 1995   RocBaar Real Estate, Inc.
95
Res.  12-6-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for the “Weslake Subdivision,” Neumann
2037- 1995   Homes, Inc. Neighborhoods 1 (Unit 1) and 2 (Units 1 and 2).
95
Res.  1-3-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for “The Meadowdale Estates Subdivision,”
2044- 1996   GAT Construction, Inc.
96
Res.  1-17-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for the “Romeoville Commercial Park Unit
2045- 1996   2,” Ronald J. Patterson, Patconserv, Inc.
96
Res.  4-17-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for the “Lakewood Falls Subdivision” -
2087- 1996   Unit 4, Pod 5, Lakewood Homes, Inc.
96
Res.  5-1-   Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Neighborhood 3,
2094- 1996   Units 1 and 2; Neighborhood 4, Units 1 and 2 of the Weslake Subdivision.
96
Res.  5-1-   Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Parcel 31 East,
2097- 1996   7 and 10 for “Cambridge at Carillon,” unincorporated Will County.
96
Res.  6-5-   Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Neighborhood 1,
2102- 1996   Unit 2 of the Weslake Subdivision.
96
Res.  6-19-  Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Parcels 4 and 5B
2111- 1996   for “Cambridge at Carillon,” unincorporated Will County.
96
Res.  11-20-
2158- 1996   Approving a final plat of subdivision, Weslake Subdivision, Neighborhood 6.
96
Res.  12-4-
2162- 1996   Approving a final plat of subdivision, Haley Meadows Subdivision, Phase 2.
96
Res.  2-5-   Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Parcel 32,
2171- 1997   Applegate Subdivision, for “Cambridge at Carillon.”
97
Res.  2-5-   Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Parcel 5B,
2172- 1997   Bedford Subdivision, for “Cambridge at Carillon.”
97
Res.  2-5-   Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Parcel 8,
2173- 1997   Carlisle Subdivision, for “Cambridge at Carillon.”
97
Res.  2-19-  Approving the lot split/resubdivision in the Windham Lakes Business Park, on
2176- 1997   Windham Parkway.
97
Res.  2-26-
2184- 2007   Approving a final plat of subdivision, Inland Realty Company.
97
Res.  3-19-  Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Parcel 12, Dover
2187- 1997   Subdivision, for “Cambridge at Carillon.”
97
Res.  3-19-  Approving a final plat of subdivision, Weslake Subdivision, NH #5, Units 1 and
2188- 1997   2.
97
Res.  3-19-
2189- 1997   Approving lot split/resubdivision for Oaks of Ridgewood.
97
Res.  6-4-   Approving the lot split/resubdivision in the Windham Lakes Business Park, 119th
2202- 1997   Street.
97
Res.  6-4-   Approving the lot split/resubdivision in the Windham Lakes Business Park, 119th
2203- 1997   Street.
97
Res.  8-20-  Approving final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Meadowdale Estates
2212- 1997   Subdivision Phase 1, Unit 2.
97
Res.  9-3-   Approving final platting, engineering and final development plans for Phase #1
2213- 1997   of the Wespark Subdivision 1400 to 1500 W. Taylor Road.
97
Res.  9-17-  Approving a final plat of subdivision and final engineering Parcel 12 for
2218- 1997   Cambridge at Carillon.
97
Res.  9-17-
2220- 1997   Approving the lot split/resubdivision Windham Lakes Business Park.
97
Res.  10-1-  Approving the final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Weslake
2223- 1997   Subdivision Neighborhood 10, Units 1 and 2.
97
Res.  10-1-
2224- 1997   Approving a final plat of resubdivision Parcel 4 for Cambridge at Carillon.
97
Res.  2-4-   Approving final development plans for Remington Apartments, 500 to 600 N. Weber
2236- 1998   Road.
98
Res.  4-1-   Approving a final plat of resubdivision/lot consolidation for Fox’s Lakewood
2245- 1998   Estates Resubdivision.
97
Res.  4-1-   Approving lot split/resubdivision of Windham Lakes Business Park, Amli
2246- 1998   Commercial Properties.
98
Res.  5-6-   Approving a final plat of subdivision Weslake Subdivision, NH #7, Unit 1 and NH
2248- 1998   #8, Unit 1.
98
Res.  5-6-   Approving a final plat of subdivision Paul Swanson/Fairfield Meadows
2259- 1998   Subdivision.
98
Res.  5-20-
2260- 1998   Approving the lot split/resubdivision Inland Realty Property, 675 N. Weber Road.
98
Res.  5-20-
2261- 1998   Approving a final plat of subdivision Malibu Bay Subdivision.
98
Res.  7-1-
2264- 1998   Approving final plat of Weslake Subdivision, NH #7, Unit 2 and NH #8, Unit 2.
98
Res.  9-16-  Approving the final platting for Phase #2 of the Wespark Subdivision, 1400 to
2275- 1998   1500 W. Taylor Road.
98
Res.  10-20-
2297- 1998   Approving final plat of subdivision, Weber Ridge Industrial Park.
98
Res.  10-21-
2288- 1998   Approving Resubdivision #2 of Parcel #4 for Cambridge at Carillon.
98
Res.  11-4-  Approving the final plat of subdivision Catellus/Gillette - Internationale
2293- 1998   Center West, 900 to 1050 W. Normantown Road.
98
Res.  11-4-  Approving the final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Marquette’s
2295- 1998   Landing, Community Home Builders, 1200 to 1250 W. Romeo Road.
98
Res.  11-18- Approving final platting and engineering for Cambridge at Carillon Subdivision,
2296- 1998   Parcel #31S.
98
Res.  12-16- Approving final platting and engineering for Cambridge at Carillon Subdivision,
2306- 1998   Parcel #9.
98
Res.  1-4-   Approving the final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Unit 2 of the
2307- 1999   Heritage Place Subdivision.
99
Res.  2-16-  Approving the plat of resubdivision for Inland Real Estate Property, Weber &
2310- 1999   Normantown Second Resubdivision.
99
Res.  5-3-   Approving final platting and engineering for Cambridge at Carillon Subdivision,
2324- 1999   Parcel #35.
99
Res.  5-3-   Approving final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Haley Meadows
2325- 1999   Subdivision, Unit 3.
99
Res.  5-17-  Approving final plat of subdivision and final engineering for Malibu Bay
2330- 1999   Subdivision/Townhomes.
99
Res.  5-17-  Approving final re-platting of Cambridge at Carillon Subdivision, Parcel #7,
2333- 1999   Resubdivision #1.
99
Res.  10-6-
2374- 1999   Approving the final plat of subdivision for Weglen Neighborhood 3.
99
Res.  10-6-
2375- 1999   Approving the final plat of subdivision for Weglen Neighborhood 5.
99
Res.  10-6-
2376- 1999   Approving the final plat of subdivision for Weglen Neighborhood 6, Unit 2.
99
Res.  11-3-  Approving the final plat of subdivision for Weglen Neighborhood 2, Units 2 and
2407- 1999   3.
99
Res.  11-3-
2409- 1999   Approving the final plat of subdivision for Carillon Parcel #11.
99
Res.  1-19-
2415- 2000   Approving the final plat of subdivision for Hamlins at Highpoint.
99
Res.  2-16-
2445- 2000   Approving the final plat of subdivision for Carillon Courts, Phase II.
00
Res.  3-15-
2468- 2000   Approving the final plat for Wesglen Neighborhood 6, Unit 3.
00
Res.  4-5-
2474- 2000   Approving the final plat for Wesglen Neighborhood 4, Unit 1.
00
Res.  4-5-
2475- 2000   Approving the final plat for Wesglen Neighborhood 4, Unit 2.
00
Res.  4-5-
2480- 2000   Approving the final plat for Crossroads Business Park.
00
Res.  5-3-
2485- 2000   Approving the final plat for Windham Lakes Resubdivision #22.
00
Res.  5-3-
2486- 2000   Approving the final plat for Windham Lakes Resubdivision #23.
00
Res.  5-3-
2487- 2000   Approving the final plat for Windham Lakes Resubdivision #20.
00
Res.  6-7-
2505- 2000   Approving the final plat to create three industrial lots.
00
Res.  6-8-   Approving a final plat to create 214 lots for detached single-family homes and
2507- 2000   associated outlots.
00
Res.  7-5-
2525- 2000   Re-affirming final plat of Wesglen, Neighborhood 3.
00
Res.  8-16-
2532- 2000   Approving final plat of Wesglen NH #1.
00
Res.  10-4-
2557- 2000   Approving a final plat to construct Lakewood Falls 5 Pod 23.
00
Res.  10-4-
2558- 2000   Re-affirming approval of the final plat of the Hamlins at HighPoint.
00
Res.  10-18-
2568- 2000   Approving final plat of Wesglen NH #4.2.
00
Res.  10-18-
2571- 2000   Approving a final plat of Wesglen NH #4.3.
00
Res.  10-18-
2573- 2000   Approving a final plat of Wesglen NH #8.
00
Res.  2-21-  Approving final plat of the Romeoville Towne Center resubdivision.
27-01 2001
Res.  4-18-  Approving a preliminary plat to construct a single-family residential
64-01 2001   subdivision.
Res.  5-2-   Approving a final plat for the Carillon Court resubdivision.
70-01 2001
Res.  5-2-   Approving final plat to create a three-lot subdivision.
71-01 2001
Res.  6-20-  Approving a preliminary plat to construct Lakewood Homes’ First, Second and
105-  2001   Third additions.
01
Res.  6-20-
107-  2001   Approving final plat to construct Lakewood Falls Unit 7.
01
Res.  6-20-
109-  2001   Approving final plat to construct Grand Haven Unit 1.
01
Res.  6-20-
110-  2001   Approving final plat to construct Grand Haven Townhomes Unit 1.
01
Res.  7-11-
122-  2001   Approving final plat to dedicate a portion of Hosler Drive to the village.
01
Res.  7-11-
127-  2001   Approving final plat for a 66-unit neighborhood of Marquette’s Crossing.
01
Res.  8-1-   Approving final plat to dedicate land to the village for roadway purposes for
136-  2001   Taylor Road.
01
Res.  10-17-
155-  2001   Approving final plat to construct Nottingham Ridge Subdivision - Phase 1.
01
Res.  10-17- Approving final plat to dedicate a temporary easement as part of the
157-  2001   construction of a 421,000 square foot warehouse building (PZC 01-116-B).
01
Res.  10-17- Approving final plat to dedicate a temporary easement as part of the
158-  2001   construction of a 421,000 square foot warehouse building (PZC 01-116-A).
01
Res.  2-20-  Approving final plat to construct the Lakewood Falls Unit 7B, single-family
0010- 2002   residential subdivision.
02
Res.  3-6-
0015- 2002   Approving final plat to construct Nottingham Ridge Subdivision - Phase 2.
02
Res.  4-3-
0029- 2002   Approving final plat for Marquette’s Crossing East.
02
Res.  5-1-   Approving the final plat for the public utility easement at the proposed A-
0049- 2002   1 Public Storage Facility.
02
Res.  5-15-
0061- 2002   Approving preliminary plat to construct Lakewood Falls 7C.
02
Res.  6-19-  Approving the preliminary plat to construct 155 single-family detached homes and
0063- 2002   116 townhomes.
02
Res.  7-11-  Approving a preliminary plat to construct a single-family residential
0125- 2002   subdivision in Marquette’s Crossing.
02
Res.  7-17-  Approving final plat of subdivision of 3.18-acre parcel to be used for
0093- 2002   construction of Rogy’s Educational Center.
02
Res.  7-17-
0097- 2002   Approving final plat to construct Lakewood Falls 7C.
02
Res.  7-17-  Approving preliminary plat to construct 176 single-family detached houses and 65
0099- 2002   duplex houses in Marquette’s Estates.
02
Res.  7-17-
0101- 2002   Approving final plat to construct 78 single-family homes in Grand Haven Unit 3.
02
Res.  7-17-
0102- 2002   Approving final plat to construct 20 six-unit townhomes in Grand Haven Unit 3.
02
            
Res.  7-17-
0104- 2002   Approving a final plat for commercial subdivision for Normantown Center.
02
Res.  8-7-
0115- 2002   Approving final plat to construct 12 six-unit townhomes in Grand Haven Unit 2.
02
Res.  8-7-
0116- 2002   Approving final plat to construct 99 single-family homes in Grand Haven Unit 2.
02
Res.  9-18-  Approving final plat to construct the 346M Spec Building in Internationale
0133- 2002   Centre West Business Park.
02
Res.  1-8-   Approving final plat to dedicate right-of-way for Taylor Road and Malibu Drive
0002- 2003   (recently renamed Pinnacle Drive).
03
Res.  1-8-   Approving final plat to dedicate land to the village for roadway purposes for
0003- 2003   Taylor Road.
03
Res.  1-22-  Approving final plat to dedicate land to the village for roadway purposes for
0004- 2003   Pinnacle (Malibu) Drive.
03
Res.  3-19-  Approving final plat to construct 176 single-family detached houses and 65
0026- 2003   duplex houses (resulting in 130 duplex units).
03
Res.  4-2-   Approving final plat to re-subdivide parts of Lots 1 and 2 and all of Lots 3, 5
0037- 2003   and 6 of the Carillon Court Subdivision, located on Weber Road.
03
Res.  4-2-   Approving final plat for the construction of 72 single-family detached homes as
0038- 2003   part of the Fieldstone Subdivision.
03
Res.  4-2-   Approving final plat for the construction of 116 townhome units as part of the
0039- 2003   Fieldstone Subdivision.
03
Res.  4-2-   Approving final plat for the construction of 83 single-family detached homes as
0041- 2003   part of the Fieldstone Subdivision.
03
Res.  5-7-
0051- 2003   Approving final plat to construct Airport Industrial Center.
03
Res.  7-2-   Approving final plat for Boldt Park business subdivision on the north side of
0077- 2003   Normantown Road.
03
Res.  8-20-
0085- 2003   Approving final plat for Windham Lakes Resubdivision #25.
03
Res.  9-3-   Approving final plat for the construction of the 6.74-acre Lakewood Retail
03-   2003   Center development at the northeast corner of Airport Road and Budler Road.
0102
Res.  9-17-  Approving final plat for the resubdivision of Lot 15 of Romeoville Commercial
03-   2003   Park.
0109
Res.  10-1-  Approving preliminary plat to construct 8.6-acre retail development at the
03-   2003   northwest corner of Weber Road and Grand Haven Circle.
0129
Res.  10-1-  Approving final plat for construction of a 8.6-acre retail development at the
03-   2003   northwest corner of Weber Road and Grand Haven Circle.
0131
Res.  11-19-
03-   2003   Approving final plat for Creekside, South Commercial Portion.
0139
Res.  11-19-
03-   2003   Approving final plat for Creekside North.
0155
Res.  1-7-   Approving final plat for the resubdivision of Lot 15 of Romeoville Commercial
03-   2004   Park.
0119
Res.  2-18-  Approving final plat for the southwest corner of Airport Road and Weber Road
03-   2004   Commercial portion.
0168
Res.  3-3-
04-   2004   Approving final plat for Lakeview subdivision in Windham Lakes Business Park.
0196
Res.  3-17-
04-   2004   Approving a final plat of subdivision for ProLogis Development Services, Inc.
0202
Res.  5-5-   Approving an amended final plat of subdivision for Lots 1 and 2 of Weber Ridge
04-   2004   Subdivision.
0222
Res.  6-2-
04-   2004   Approving a final plat for Stone Bluff.
0242
Res.  8-18-
04-   2004   Approving final plat of resubdivision for Windham Lakes Resubdivision.
0288
Res.  8-18-  Approving final plat of resubdivision for Creekside South commercial
04-   2004   Subdivision.
0289
Res.  8-18-
04-   2004   Approving preliminary plat for Normantown Square.
0290
Res.  9-1-   Approving final plat of easement for Taco Bell/Long John Silver, Williams Sub
04-   2004   Lot 6 04-20D.
0305
Res.  9-1-
04-   2004   Approving final plat for Tireco Warehouse 04-44.
0306
Res.  9-1-
04-   2004   Approving a final plat of easement for Boldt Park.
0307
Res.  10-6-
04-   2004   Approving final plat for Lifetime Fitness.
0318
Res.  10-6-
04-   2004   Approving final plats for Marquette’s Estates Resubdivision 04-61A.
0320
Res.  10-6-
04-   2004   Approving final plat of easement, Park 55, Building #1.
0332
Res.  11-3-
04-   2004   Approving final plat for Creekside North.
0341
Res.  12-15- Approving a final plat of resubdivision; plat of resubdivision: Lots 1 and 2 in
04-   2004   Normantown Center.
0353
Res.  2-2-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Rose Plaza of Romeoville.
0373
Res.  2-16-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Crossroads #7.
0374
Res.  2-16-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat for Normantown Square Commercial Development.
0379
Res.  3-16-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat of easement for Intertek Caleb Brett.
0386
Res.  6-15-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Flexible Pavement Hahn Property.
0439
Res.  6-15-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat for Bluff Point Subdivision.
0443
Res.  7-6-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat for Greenhaven at Meadowdale.
0450
Res.  9-7-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat for Rose Plaza of Romeoville.
0464
Res.  9-7-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat of abrogation for Rose Plaza of Romeoville.
0465
Res.  9-7-
05-   2005   Approving final plat of easement for Able Masonry.
0472
Res.  9-21-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat for South Creek.
0477
Res.  9-21-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat of easement for South Creek.
0478
Res.  11-2-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat of easement for Park 55 - Building 3.
0493
Res.  11-2-
05-   2005   Approving a final plat for L Cubed Resubdivision.
0495
Res.  11-16-
05-   2005   Approving a final site, landscaping and engineering for Bluff Point - Lot 2.
0496
Res.  3-1-
06-   2006   Approving final plat of resubdivision for Airport Industrial Center.
0533
Res.  3-1-
06-   2006   Approving final plat of vacation for Airport Industrial Center.
0534
Res.  5-3-
06-   2006   Approving final plat for Windham Lakes Southwest Quad.
0574
06-   5-17-  Approving a planned unit development final development plan amendment for Park
0414  2006   55 - Building 3.
Res.  5-17-
06-   2006   Approving final plat of resubdivision for Comcast.
0580
Res.  7-5-
06-   2006   Approving final plat of easement for South Creek Corporate Center, Phase I-A.
0608
Res.  7-5-
06-   2006   Approving final plat of subdivision for South Creek Corporate Center, Phase I-A.
0609
Res.  7-5-
06-   2006   Approving a final plat of easement for Brunswick Zone.
0610
Res.  8-16-
06-   2006   Approving final plat of subdivision for Misty Ridge.
0631
Res.  9-20-
06-   2006   Approving final plat of consolidation for Gas City Carwash.
0640
Res.  9-20-
06-   2006   Approving final plat for Angelus of Romeoville.
0648
Res.  10-18-
06-   2006   Approving final plat of consolidation for Romeoville Commercial Lots 13 and 14.
0641
Res.  10-18-
06-   2006   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Dr. Nowak Medical Center.
0650
Res.  10-18-
06-   2006   Approving final plat for Romeoville Crossings.
0651
Res.  1-17-
06-   2007   Approving final plat of subdivision for Creme de la Creme.
0711
Res.  5-16-
07-   2007   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Rose Resubdivision #2 - McDonald’s.
0774
Res.  7-18-
07-   2007   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Misty Ridge Lots 129 and 130.
0805
Res.  12-19-
07-   2007   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Romeoville Crossings Resubdivision #1.
0882
Res.  12-19-
07-   2007   Approving a final plat of resubdivision for Windham Lakes Southwest Quad.
0883
Res.  1-16-
07-   2008   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Paragon Business Park.
0889
Res.  1-16-
07-   2008   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Great Kitchens.
0890
Res.  1-16-
07-   2008   Approving a final plat of easement for Great Kitchens.
0891
Res.  2-6-
08-   2008   Approving a final plat of easement for 1000 Crossroads Parkway - Bolingbrook.
0896
Res.  2-6-
08-   2008   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Shop’s of Romeoville Phase II.
0897
Res.  4-16-
08-   2008   Approving the final plat of Pasquinelli’s Creekside Commercial Subdivision.
0926
Res.  6-18-
08-   2008   Approving a final plat of easement for 775 Crossroads Parkway, Bolingbrook.
0965
Res.  6-18-
08-   2008   Approving a final plat of vacation for 775 Crossroads Parkway, Bolingbrook.
0966
Res.  7-16-
08-   2008   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Bluff Point - Unit 2.
0979
Res.  7-16-
08-   2008   Approving a final plat of easement for 600 S. Weber Road.
0980
Res.  7-16-
08-   2008   Approving a final plat of easement for CGI.
0981
08-   8-20-  Approving an amendment to a planned unit development - final development plan
0700  2008   for Great Kitchen signage.
Res.  8-20-
08-   2008   Approving a final plat of subdivision for CGI.
0997
Res.  8-20-
08-   2008   Approving a final plat of easement for Valley View RHS Concession Stand.
0998
Res.  9-17-
08-   2008   Approving final plat of resubdivision for Walgreen’s.
1014
Res.  12-17-
08-   2008   Approving final plat of resubdivision for 1287 Naperville Drive.
1066
Res.  12-17-
08-   2008   Approving final plat of resubdivision for 1303 Naperville Drive.
1067
Res.  12-17-
08-   2008   Approving final plat of resubdivision for Park 55.
1069
Res.  12-17-
08-   2008   Approving final plat of subdivision for Weber Town Center.
1070
Res.  7-15-
09-   2009   Approving final plat of easement for Aldi/Shiner.
1158
Res.  9-2-
09-   2009   Approving a plat of easement for Orange Crush Stormwater.
1181
Res.  11-18-
09-   2009   Approving a plat of easement for Bennett & Brosseau Roofing.
1201
Res.  11-18-
09-   2009   Approving a plat of easement for Lewis Sanitary Sewer.
1207
Res.  6-9-
10-   2010   Approving a final plat of resubdivision for Creekside South Commercial.
1292
10-   9-15-  Approving an amendment to the planned unit development - final development plan
0875  2010   - International Hauling, Inc.
10-   9-15-  Approving an amendment to the planned unit development – general development
0876  2010   plan for Rubloff Development Inc.
Res.  11-17-
10-   2010   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Budler Road Retail Center.
1355
Res.  11-17-
10-   2010   Approving a plat of dedication for the south side of Gaskin Drive - Meijer.
1357
11-   4-20-  Approving the second amendment to the planned unit development - general
0903  2011   development plan for Rubloff and Deals.
11-   7-20-  Approving the third amendment to the planned unit development - general
0914  2011   development plan for Rubloff and NTB.
Res.  7-20-
11-   2011   Approving a plat of resubdivision for Rubloff and NTB.
1442
Res.  12-21-
11-   2011   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Rubloff and Deals.
1479
12-   4-4-   Approving a second amendment to the planned unit development - final development
0971  2012   plan for signage for Canlan Ice Sports at 1581 W. Normantown Road.
Res.  9-5-
12-   2012   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Rediehs Business Park.
1567
Res.  9-5-
12-   2012   Approving a final plat of easement for S-Cubed, located at 645 S. Weber Road.
1568
Res.  9-5-   Approving a final plat of easement for FedEx facility located at 920 W. Taylor
12-   2012   Road.
1569
Res.  10-9-  Approving a final plat of Murphy Park Resubdivision for the old Village Hall
13-   2013   site located on Montrose Drive.
1712
Res.  11-20- Approving a final plat of easement for Peacock Engineering located at 1001
13-   2013   Crossroads Parkway.
1730
Res.  11-20-
13-   2013   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Rediehs Business Park.
1731
Res.  11-20- Approving a final plat of easement and a plat of easement vacation for Outlot 6
13-   2013   of Romeoville Crossings.
1732
Res.  12-18- Approving a final plat of easement for Boldt Park Lot 3 located at 1160
13-   2013   Crossroads Parkway.
1750
Res.  12-18-
13-   2013   Approving a final plat of easement for Mistwood Golf Course.
1751
Res.  4-2-
13-   2014   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Venegoni Commercial Center.
1711
Res.  5-7-
14-   2014   Approving a final plat of subdivision for the Internationale Centre West Unit 4.
1810
Res.  5-7-
14-   2014   Approving a final plat of easement for Internationale Centre West.
1811
14-   6-18-  Approving final development plan for Stone Bluff.
1122  2014
Res.  8-20-  Approving a final plat of easement for Magis Glove and Safety located at 1300
14-   2014   Naperville Drive.
1850
Res.  8-20-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for Carillon Court Resubdivision Phase
14-   2014   Two.
1851
Res.  9-3-
14-   2014   Approving a final plat of easement for Seefried Industrial Properties, Inc.
1859
Res.  9-3-
14-   2014   Approving a final plat of easement for Prologis Development, Inc.
1860
Res.  10-1-  Approving a final plat of easement for Duke Realty located at 1341 Enterprise
14-   2014   Drive.
1874
Res.  10-1-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for Duke Realty located at 1341 Enterprise
14-   2014   Drive.
1875
Res.  11-19-
14-   2014   Approving a final plat of resubdivision for Uptown Square.
1900
Res.  2-4-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for McDonald’s at 645 N. Independence
15-   2015   Boulevard.
1915
Res.  3-18-  Approving a final plat of easement for Molto Properties at 1485 W. Normantown
15-   2015   Road.
1931
Res.  5-6-
15-   2015   Approving a final plat of resubdivision for Uptown Square.
1953
Res.  7-1-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Windham Lakes Southwest Resubdivision
15-   2015   no. 2.
1985
Res.  7-1-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Molto Properties at 1881 W. Normantown
15-   2015   Road.
1986
Res.  9-2-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Car Care Collision Center at 1302
15-   2015   Naperville Drive.
2009
Res.  11-18-
15-   2015   Approving a plat of dedication for property at Crossroads Parkway.
2040
Res.  2-17-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for Paragon Business Park Resubdivision
16-   2016   no. 1.
2058
Res.  5-18-  Approving the final site, landscape and engineering plans for the Wilco Storage
16-   2016   Building Addition.
2099
Res.  5-18-
16-   2016   Approving a final plat of easement for Veterans Parkway - Bolingbrook, LLC.
2100
Res.  5-18-
16-   2016   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Hawkeye Subdivision.
2101
Res.  7-6-   Approving a final plat of dedication for Taylor Road - Valley View Community
16-   2016   School District.
2133
Res.  7-6-   Approving a final plat of dedication for Taylor Road - Lockport Township Park
16-   2016   District.
2134
Res.  7-6-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Airport Industrial Center
16-   2016   Consolidation.
2137
Res.  9-7-   Approving a final plat of easement for Normantown Road - Molto Properties at
16-   2016   1881 W. Normantown Road.
2167
Res.  9-7-
16-   2016   Approving four plats of abrogation of easements for Renwick Place.
2172
Res.  9-7-
16-   2016   Approving four plats of easement for Renwick Place.
2173
Res.  9-7-   Approving a plat of easement for Lot 1 of Boldt Park - Ashley Furniture - 1045
16-   2016   W. Crossroads Parkway.
2174
Res.  9-7-
16-   2016   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Troutman and Dams.
2175
Res.  9-7-
16-   2016   Approving a final plat of dedication for Troutman and Dams.
2176
Res.  9-21-
16-   2016   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Innovation Park - Filotto.
2191
Res.  9-21-
16-   2016   Approving a plat of vacation of easements - Duke at Paragon.
2192
Res.  9-21-  Approving a final plat of re-subdivision for Paragon Business Park Resubdivision
16-   2016   no. 2 - Duke.
2193
Res.  11-16- Approving a final plat of subdivision and plat of easement for VNA Health Care -
16-   2016   160 N. Independence Boulevard.
2226
Res.  11-16-
16-   2016   Approving a final plat of easement for Woodspring Suites - 1093 Windham Parkway.
2227
Res.  11-16- Approving a final plat of subdivision – Springs at Weber Road by Continental
16-   2016   Properties.
2228
Res.  2-1-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Airport Road Subdivision – Panattoni
17-   2017   at Mostyn.
2251
Res.  2-1-
17-   2017   Approving a final plat of easement - Lakewood Falls Clubhouse.
2252
Res.  4-5-
17-   2017   Approving a final plat of subdivision - Romeoville Industrial Center.
2269
Res.  5-3-
17-   2017   Approving a final plat of easement - 1200 Schmidt Road.
2298
Res.  5-3-
17-   2017   Approving a final plat of subdivision - Blain’s Farm & Fleet.
2299
Res.  5-3-
17-   2017   Approving a final plat of subdivision - Romeoville Gateway.
2300
Res.  10-18-
17-   2017   Approving a final plat of easement - Pinnacle 22.
2397
Res.  10-18-
17-   2017   Approving a final plat of easement - Duke at Paragon.
2398
Res.  11-1-
17-   2017   Approving a final plat of subdivision - Village Place Apartments.
2408
Res.  12-6-
17-   2017   Approving a final plat of subdivision - Rose Plaza Resubdivision #3.
2419
Res.  12-20-
17-   2017   Approving a final plat of subdivision - Interchange 55 Logistics Park.
2423
Res.  2-21-
18-   2018   Approving a final plat of easement - High Point Town Square Apartments.
2439
Res.  2-21-
18-   2018   Approving a final plat of easement - Opus Lot 3.
2440
Res.  4-18-
18-   2018   Approving a final plat of subdivision - Troutman and Dams.
2451
Res.  5-16-
18-   2018   Approving a final plat of subdivision - DCT 5 Greenwood Resubdivision.
2495
Res.  6-20-
18-   2018   Approving a final plat of easement - Checker’s.
2506
Res.  6-20-  Approving a final plat of easement for water main and sanitary sewer purposes
18-   2018   for the Lewis Airport Southcreek Building.
2511
Res.  3-6-   Approving a final plat of easement for construction and maintenance purposes at
19-   2019   245 Crossroads Parkway.
2647
Res.  3-6-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for the Elwood Subdivision at 13649 New
19-   2019   Avenue.
2648
Res.  6-19-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for the Romeoville Industrial Center
19-   2019   Resubdivision no. 1.
2706
Res.  12-18-
19-   2019   Approving a final plat of resubdivision for Interland.
2828
Res.  8-19-
20-   2020   Approving a final plat of subdivision for the Seasons of Romeoville.
2946
Res.  9-2-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Duke Realty Limited Partnership
20-   2020   (Renwick Road Subdivision).
2976
Res.  1-19-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for Duke Realty Limited Partnership
22-   2022   (Renwick Road Subdivision Unit 2).
3279
Res.  6-1-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for the Romeoville Towne Center
22-   2022   Resubdivision.
3373
Res.  6-15-
22-   2022   Approving a final plat of subdivision of the Pinnacle Business Center.
3386
Res.  9-7-   Approving a final plat of consolidation for Transport Properties at 1409 Joliet
22-   2022   Road.
3429
Res.  11-15- Approving a final plat of subdivision for Bridge Development Partners, LLC
22-   2022   (Bridge Point Gully - Phase 2 Subdivision).
3479
Res.  11-15-
22-   2022   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Weber 55 Logistics Park.
3480
Res.  11-15-
22-   2022   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Aquatic Center Resubdivision.
3481
Res.  1-4-
22-   2023   Approving a final plat of dedication for Highpoint Drive.
3506
Res.  2-1-
23-   2023   Approving a final plat of dedication for 135th Street - Citgo.
3514
Res.  2-1-
23-   2023   Approving a final plat of easement for R.C. Hill.
3521
Res.  2-1-
23-   2023   Approving a final plat of easement for White Oak Library.
3522
Res.  2-1-
23-   2023   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Southcreek Industrial Park Unit 4.
3524
Res.  3-1-
23-   2023   Approving a final plat of subdivision for 765 Independence Boulevard.
3532
Res.  4-19-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for Palencia Properties, LLC (Southcreek
23-   2023   Industrial Park Unit 5).
3569
Res.  4-19-
23-   2023   Approving a plat of dedication for Pinnacle Drive.
3570
Res.  8-16-  Accepting plats of dedication and reservation of easement (village-owned
23-   2023   property - 135th Street).
3644
Res.  2-21-
24-   2024   Approving a final plat of subdivision for ML Realty at 1203 Lakeview Drive.
3743
Res.  6-12-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for Fields Auto Group (Mercedes-Benz of
24-   2024   Romeoville).
3768
Res.  6-12-  Approving a final plat of subdivision for the QuikTrip Corporation at the
24-   2024   southwest corner of Normantown Road and Weber Road.
3791
Res.  2-5-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Bridge Industrial at 765 Independence
25-   2025   Boulevard.
3953
Res.  3-19-  Approving a plat of consolidation for Taco Bell at 643 N. Independence
25-   2025   Boulevard.
3978
Res.  7-9-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for the Romeoville Towne Center
25-   2025   Resubdivision No. 2.
4061
Res.  9-3-   Approving a final plat of subdivision for Edward Rose Properties, Inc. (Monarch
25-   2025   Grove).
4088
Res.  10-1-
25-   2025   Approving a plat of dedication for Normantown Road.
4106
Res.  12-3-  Approving a plat of resubdivision to consolidate lots for O’Hare, LLC and Viga
25-   2025   Design Studio, LLC at 368 S. O’Hare Drive.
4135
            
 
TABLE XV: SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./  Date
Res.   Passed Description
No.
Res.   11-6-  Approving the site and landscape plans for Gary F. Galassi/Galassi & Sons,
2151-  1996   Inc., Lot 1 and 2, East Devonwood Avenue.
96
Res.   11-6-  Approving the site development plans for High Pointe Woods, Phase III,
2152-  1996   Marquette Property Investment, 100 to 200 S. Weber Road.
96
Res.   12-18- Approving a deferment of the development regulations for 600 to 800 N. Weber
2164-  1996   Road.
96
Res.   12-30- Approving the site development plans for Student Housing, Lewis University, 500
2166-  1996   S. Independence Boulevard.
96
Res.   2-19-  Approving the site and landscape plans for 84 Lumber Co./Pierce Hardy, Ltd.
2177-  1997   Partnership, 1400 N. Independence Boulevard.
97
Res.   2-26-
2184-  1997   Amending Res. 2164-96.
1-97
Res.   3-5-   Approving the site and landscape plans for JML Group, Ltd./7-Eleven/Citgo, 679
2185-  1997   N. Weber Road.
97
Res.   3-19-  Approving the site and landscape plans for Penske Truck leasing facility, 1222
2186-  1997   Naperville Drive.
97
Res.   4-2-   Approving the site and landscape plans for CM Realty Co., 1287 Naperville
2191-  1997   Drive.
97
Res.   4-2-   Approving the site and location plans for Land & Lakes Co. gas recovery
2192-  1997   facility, 1271 N. Joliet Road.
97
Res.   5-7-
2199-  1997   Approving the site and landscape plans for Metropolitan Pump Co.
97
Res.   6-18-
2204-  1997   Approving the site and landscape plans for Patterson, Lot #8.
97
Res.   6-18-
2205-  1997   Approving the site and landscape plans for Adcock/Patterson, Lot #15.
97
Res.   9-17-
2217-  1997   Approving the site and landscape plans for McDonald’s Corporation.
97
Res.   9-17-
2221-  1997   Approving the site and landscape plans for Ivan Tichy/S.C. Lumia Construction.
97
Res.   9-17-  Approving the site and landscape plans for Lockport Township Fire Protection
2222-  1997   District #3.
97
Res.   10-8-
2225-  1997   Approving the site and landscape plans for Chicago Adhesives/Chapco Industries.
97
Res.   10-8-
2226-  1997   Approving the site and landscape plans for Windham Lakes Industrial Center #2.
97
Res.   10-22-
2228-  1997   Approving the site and landscape plans for Cintas Corporation.
97
Res.   2-17-  Approving site, landscape and civil engineering plans for Lakeridge Electric
2239-  1998   Supply Company, 734 Oakridge Drive.
98
Res.   3-4-
2240-  1998   Approving the site and landscape plans for Extended Stay America.
98
Res.   5-20-
2256-  1998   Approving the site and landscape plans for E.H. Lynn Industries.
98
Res.   5-20-  Approving the site, landscape, and site engineering plans for McDonald
2257-  1998   Corporation.
98
Res.   5-20-  Approving final engineering and final development plans for Remington
2258-  1998   Apartments, 500 to 600 N. Weber Road.
98
Res.   6-3-
2262-  1998   Approving the site and landscape plans of W. Suburban Band, 505 N. Weber Road.
98
Res.   7-1-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans of Mid Northern Commercial
2268-  1998   Services, 401 to 499 N. Weber Road.
98
Res.   7-1-   Approving the site and landscape plans for Marquette Center Business &
2269-  1998   Industrial Park, 1343 and 1345 Lakeside Drive.
98
Res.   8-19-  Approving site, landscape and site engineering plans for Marquette Center Lot
2269-  1998   #32, 1349 Enterprise Drive.
98
Res.   8-19-  Approving the site, landscape and site engineering plans for Universal
2271-  1998   Insulation, 646 Forestwood Drive.
98
Res.   8-19-  Approving site and landscape and site engineering plans for Marquette Center
2273-  1998   West, National Trailer Repair, Anton Drive.
98
Res.   9-2-   Approving the site landscape and engineering plans, James Adcock, 641
2274-  1998   Forestwood Drive.
98
Res.   9-16-  Approving site redevelopment plans for Tuffy’s Muffler and Brake Plaza, 652 N.
2277-  1998   Independence Boulevard.
98
Res.   9-16-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Pierce Enterprises,
2278-  1998   Inc., 1346 Enterprise Drive.
98
Res.   9-16-  Approving the site, landscape, site engineering plans and plat of subdivision
2279-  1998   for Gillette Office & Warehouse facility.
98
Res.   10-21- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lot #62 of Marquette
2287-  1998   Business Park, 1233, 1235 and 1237 Lakeside Drive.
98
Res.   10-21- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans, Duke Realty, Building #2,
2290-  1998   Schmidt Road.
98
Res.   12-16- Amending Resolution #2257-98 that approved a site plan for the McDonald’s
2304-  1998   Corporation, 675 N. Weber Road.
98
Res.   2-1-   Approving site, landscape and site engineering for First National Bank of
2309-  1999   Joliet, 80 S. Weber Road.
99
Res.   3-1-   Approving site, landscape and engineering plans for Arby’s/Lunan Corporation,
2316-  1999   1245 Lakeview Drive.
99
Res.   5-17-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Metropolitan Pump -
2329-  1999   Expansion, 37 Forestwood Drive.
99
Res.   5-17-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Ulta3 expansion, 1190
2331-  1999   Arbor Drive.
99
Res.   6-7-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for American Star, 642
2339-  1999   Forestwood Drive.
99
Res.   6-7-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for AMLI Realty, Windham
2340-  1999   Lakes Business Park.
99
Res.   8-18-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Discount Tire, Weber
2354-  1999   Road.
99
Res.   8-18-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for The Offices at Windham
2355-  1999   Lakes, Windham Lakes Business Park.
99
Res.   9-1-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lakeview Office Center,
2364-  1999   Windham Lakes Business Park.
99
Res.   9-15-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Dunkin Donuts/Basking
2367-  1999   Robins, 659 Independence Boulevard.
99
Res.   11-3-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for the Gertsen Interstate
2390-  1999   System, Romeoville Industrial Park.
99
Res.   12-1-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for the Taylor Road
2405-  1999   Improvement Plan, Pizzuti Development.
99
Res.   12-15- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for the Addition at 801
2417-  1999   Forestwood, Ridgewood Business Park.
99
Res.   12-15- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Outlot #2, Romeoville
2418-  1999   Towne Center.
99
Res.   4-5-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Collision Revision,
2476-  2000   Romeoville Commercial/Industrial Park.
00
Res.   4-5-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for PZC 99-66, Lot 2,
2478-  2000   Forestwood PUD.
00
Res.   4-5-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Crossroads Business
2479-  2000   Park, Building #4.
00
Res.   5-3-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Offices at Windham
2484-  2000   Lakes, Phase II, Windham Lakes Business Park.
00
Res.   6-7-
2496-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Buikema Ace Hardware.
00
Res.   6-7-
2497-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for AMLI, Inc.
00
Res.   6-7-
2498-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Jim Adcock.
00
Res.   6-7-
2500-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lakewood Homes, Inc.
00
Res.   6-7-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Frank Burla & Sons
2506-  2000   Builders, Inc.
00
Res.   6-21-
2512-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for BP Amoco.
00
Res.   7-5-
2524-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Pilot Corporation.
00
Res.   7-19-
2528-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Centerpoint Properties.
00
Res.   7-19-
2529-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for AMLI.
00
Res.   8-2-
2534-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Robert F. Wagner.
00
Res.   8-16-
2533-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Neumann Homes.
00
Res.   9-6-
2546-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lou Trapp.
00
Res.   10-11- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for National Trailer
2564-  2000   Repair.
00
Res.   10-18-
2567-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Neumann Homes.
00
Res.   10-18-
2570-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Neumann Homes.
00
Res.   10-18-
2572-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Neumann Homes.
00
Res.   11-1-
2576-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for ProLogis.
00
Res.   11-15- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for ProLogis Development
2583-  2000   Services.
00
Res.   11-15-
2585-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Schwab.
00
Res.   12-20- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Tony Perino Jr. at 30
2597-  2000   Phelps Avenue.
00
Res.   12-20-
2601-  2000   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Powers Retail.
00
Res.   2-7-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Schwab.
20-01  2001
Res.   2-7-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Jim Adcock, Romeoville
21-01  2001   Commercial Lot no. 13.
Res.   2-21-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Dominick’s Finer Foods,
28-01  2001   Inc. and W-T Engineering, Inc.
Res.   2-21-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Mid-America Bank.
29-01  2001
Res.   3-7-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Village Recreation
31-01  2001   Department.
Res.   3-21-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Village Recreation
37-01  2001   Department.
Res.   4-4-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for ProLogis Development
48-01  2001   Group.
Res.   4-4-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for R.S. Services.
50-01  2001
Res.   4-4-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Mid-Northern Equities.
51-01  2001
Res.   4-18-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Cardinal Development
65-01  2001   Corporation.
Res.   5-16-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Catellus Development
80-01  2001   Corporation.
Res.   5-16-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Dave Kives, Marquette
81-01  2001   Center Lot no. 103.
Res.   5-16-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for the Village of
82-01  2001   Romeoville, Meadowdale/Haley Meadows Storm Sewer.
Res.   5-16-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for ProLogis Development
83-01  2001   Company.
Res.   6-6-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Marquette Center
95-01  2001   Business & Industrial Park.
Res.   6-6-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Romeoville Recreation
96-01  2001   Department.
Res.   6-6-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans to construct Winham
97-01  2001   Industrial Center #6.
Res.   6-6-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plan - grading only for OPUS
98-01  2001   North Corporation.
Res.   6-20-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lakewood Homes.
106-01 2001
Res.   6-20-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lakewood Homes.
108-01 2001
Res.   6-20-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lakewood Homes.
111-01 2001
Res.   6-20-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Robert W. Nelson.
114-01 2001
Res.   6-20-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for St. Andrew the Apostle
115-01 2001   Church.
Res.   6-20-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Bill Klump, Lazerwash
116-01 2001   Car Wash.
Res.   7-11-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Valley View School
124-01 2001   District 365-U.
Res.   7-11-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Community Home
126-01 2001   Builders.
Res.   7-11-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Community Home
128-01 2001   Builders.
Res.   10-17- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Gary Galassi, Galassi
154-01 2001   and Sons - Building Expansion.
Res.   10-17- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Neumann Homes.
156-01 2001
Res.   10-17- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Catellus Commercial
159-01 2001   Group, LLC.
Res.   11-7-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Reliable Rubber, Inc.
164-01 2001   and Joe Cielinski.
Res.   12-5-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Albertson’s, Inc.
174-01 2001
Res.   12-5-  Approving the site and engineering plans for J.C. Carhartt and Dennis
175-01 2001   Rollinger.
Res.   2-20-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Doug Belha and Super
0009-  2002   Wash, Inc.
02
Res.   2-20-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Chester Moskal and
0011-  2002   Lakewood Homes.
02
Res.   3-6-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for AT Associates and
0016-  2002   Panattoni Development Company.
02
Res.   3-20-  Approving the preliminary site, landscape and engineering plans (grading only)
0019-  2002   for Frank Zygmunt.
02
0023-  4-3-   Authorizing the acceptance of the Village Recreation Department’s Park Site
02     2002   Master Plan for the development and renovation of park sites and open spaces.
Res.   4-3-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans (utilities) for Corum Real
0025-  2002   Estate Group, connecting the village sewer and water to service Crossroads
02            Lakes Lot 1.
Res.   4-3-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans (utilities) for Corum Real
0026-  2002   Estate Group, connecting the village sewer and water to service Crossroads
02            Lakes Lot 2.
Res.   4-3-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans (utilities) for Corum Real
0027-  2002   Estate Group, connecting the village sewer and water to service Crossroads
02            Lakes Business Park.
Res.   4-3-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Flex Construction
0028-  2002   Corporation.
02
Res.   4-3-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Community Home
0030-  2002   Builders.
02
Res.   5-1-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Matt Larson of Gilbane
0046-  2002   for expansion of the Ameritech Building.
02
Res.   5-1-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Superior Structures to
0047-  2002   construct eight units in Marquette Center Business and Industrial Park.
02
Res.   5-1-
0048-  2002   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Frank Zygmunt.
01
Res.   5-15-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Jeffrey Brownell for
0057-  2002   construction of a restaurant.
02
Res.   5-15-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Celtic Development,
0059-  2002   Ltd. to construct an office building.
02
Res.   5-15-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Edco Partners, Inc. to
0060-  2002   construct a multi-tenant industrial building.
02
Res.   5-15-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lakewood Homes to
0062-  2002   Construct Lakewood Falls 7C.
02
Res.   6-19-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Isenstein/Pasquinelli
0064-  2002   for construction of 155 single-family detached homes and 116 townhomes.
02
Res.   7-3-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Edco Partners, Inc. to
0085-  2002   construct a multi-tenant industrial building.
02
Res.   7-17-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Gasaway Construction to
0091-  2002   construct an industrial building.
02
Res.   7-17-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Greenwood Joint Venture
0092-  2002   to construct industrial buildings.
02
Res.   7-17-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for H & D Holdings, Inc. to
0094-  2002   construct an educational center.
02
Res.   7-17-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lakewood homes to
0098-  2002   construct Lakewood Falls 7C.
02
Res.   7-17-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Marquette’s Estates,
0100-  2002   LLC to construct 176 single-family detached houses and 65 duplex houses.
02
Res.   7-17-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lakewood Homes to
0103-  2002   construct 78 single-family homes and 20 six-unit townhomes.
02
Res.   7-17-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Premier Development to
0105-  2002   develop a commercial subdivision.
02
Res.   8-7-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Lakewood homes to
0114-  2002   construct 99 single-family homes and 12 six-unit townhomes.
02
Res.   8-21-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for David Nelson to
0120-  2002   construct a 9,940 square foot industrial building to house the Patrick B.
02            Murphy Company.
Res.   9-18-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Catellus Development
0134-  2002   Corporation to construct the 346 Spec Building in the Internationale Centre
02            West Business Park.
Res.   10-2-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Albertson’s, Inc. to
0141-  2002   construct a Jewel Express and fueling center with a car wash.
02
Res.   10-2-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Superior Structures to
0142A- 2002   construct an 8,000 square foot warehouse addition to the existing Car Wash
02            Services Building.
Res.   10-16- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Palgroup, Inc. for an
0143-  2002   approximately seven-acre tractor/trailer storage yard.
02
Res.   10-16- Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for INC Construction
0144-  2002   Company to construct a 55,940 square foot building for Expert Automotive on Lot
02            7 of Windham Lakes Business Park Resubdivision no. 16.
Res.   11-6-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Angelo DiPaolo to
0147-  2002   construct a commercial strip center at the north end of the Lakewood Estates
02            Subdivision.
Res.   11-6-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Duke Weeks Realty to
0153-  2002   allow construction of a warehouse building in the Crossroads Business Park.
02
Res.   11-6-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Flex Construction
0154-  2002   Corporation to allow construction of an asphalt vehicle storage area at 305
02            Rocbaar Drive in the Ridgewood Business Park.
Res.   11-6-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Klock Farm, LLC/
0157-  2002   Pasquinelli Development Corporation, LLC for a 189-townhome and ten-commercial
02            lot subdivision.
Res.          Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for the Village Public
0171-  12-7-  Works Department to allow construction of a 11,200 square foot building to
02     2002   house REMA and a satellite public works facility, including a salt dome and
              refueling area.
Res.   1-8-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Tony Perino Jr. for a
0001-  2003   planned unit development at the southeast corner of Phelps Avenue and
03            Independence Boulevard.
Res.   3-5-   Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Apple Illinois II, LLC
0013-  2003   for an approximately one-acre lot to house an Applebee’s Restaurant.
03
Res.   3-19-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Isenstein/Paquinellli,
0018-  2003   LLC to allow the construction of a lift station and sanitary sewer force main
03            as part of the Fieldstone subdivision.
Res.   3-19-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for The Panattoni
0019-  2003   Development Corporation for an approximately 37.43-acre site to house an
03            industrial building within the Windham Lakes Business Park.
Res.   3-19-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Thomas Scesniak to
0020-  2003   construct a Popeye’s Restaurant in the Normantown Center subdivision.
03
Res.   3-19-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Windham Venture, LLC to
0025-  2003   construct a proposed 6.74-acre retail development at the northeast corner of
03            Airport Road and Budler Road.
Res.   3-19-  Approving the site, landscape and engineering plans for Marquette’s Estates,
0027-  2003   LLC to construct 176 single-family detached houses and 65 duplex houses
03            (resulting in 130 duplex units).
Res.   4-2-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plans for retail shop in
0036-  2003   Carillon Court.
03
Res.   4-2-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plans for construction of 155
0040-  2003   single-family detached homes and 116 townhome units as part of the Fieldstone
03            Subdivision.
Res.   5-7-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plans to construct Airport
0050-  2003   Industrial Center.
03
Res.   6-4-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plans to construct a parking
0067-  2003   lot on Lot 62 of Marquette Business Center and Industrial Park.
03
Res.   7-2-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plans to construct the
0076-  2003   Romeoville Fire Station no. 2 Addition and Practical Training Center.
03
Res.   7-16-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for L-Cubed Spec
0081-  2003   Buildings.
03
Res.   8-20-  Approving preliminary site, landscaping and engineering plan, grading only, for
0086-  2003   Windgate Distribution Center.
03
Res.   8-20-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan to construct Garrett
0088-  2003   Enterprises PUD.
03
Res.   9-3-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan to construct the 6.74-
03-    2003   acre Lakewood Retail Center development at the northwest corner of Airport Road
0101          and Budler Road.
Res.   9-3-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan to construct a White
03-    2003   Castle fast food restaurant and drive-through.
0103
Res.   9-3-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan to construct a 4,200
03-    2003   square foot branch bank building.
0104
Res.   9-17-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan to construct a proposed
03-    2003   658,060 square foot speculative warehouse building called Windgate Distribution
0114          Center.
Res.   9-17-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan to construct a 30,000
03-    2003   square foot multi-tenant retail building as Phase 1 on Lot 2 of Williams
0117          Subdivision.
Res.   10-1-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan to construct Community
03-    2003   Arts and Children Center for Community Christian Church.
0118
Res.   10-1-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for construction of a
03-    2003   500,160 square foot warehouse building as Phase 1 of the 53.47-acre Bluff Point
0127          development at the southeast corner of Joliet Road and Bluff Road.
Res.   10-1-  Approving preliminary site, landscaping and engineering plan for the
03-    2003   construction of an 8.6-acre retail development at the northwest corner of Weber
0128          Road and Grand Haven Circle.
Res.   10-1-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for construction of
03-    2003   Walgreens.
0130
Res.   11-5-  Approving a final site, landscaping and engineering plan for the Carquest
03-    2003   Addition.
0141
Res.   11-5-  Approving a final site, landscaping and engineering plan to construct Culver’s
03-    2003   Restaurant.
0142
Res.   11-5-  Approving final site plan to construct one additional ingress/egress point from
03-    2003   the 9.54-acre Spartans’s Square parcel onto Alexander Circle.
0149
Res.   11-19- Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for Creekside, South
03-    2003   Commercial Portion.
0140
Res.   11-19-
03-    2003   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for Creekside North.
0157
Res.   2-18-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for the southwest corner
03-    2004   of Airport Road and Weber Road.
0169
Res.   3-3-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for an approximately
04-    2004   5.85-acre lot in Windham Lakes Business Park.
0195
Res.   3-31-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for the expansion of the
04-    2004   existing Windham Industrial Center VII located in the Windham Lakes Business
0205          Park.
Res.   4-21-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for an approximately
03-    2004   1.16-acre parcel to house a Bank of America located in HighPoint Plaza.
0170
Res.   6-2-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan to construct a 17,200
04-    2004   square foot addition to Metropolitan Industries building at 37 Forestwood
0241          Drive.
Res.   6-2-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for Stone Bluff
04-    2004   Subdivision.
0243
Res.   6-16-  Approving final site, landscaping and engineering plan for a three-acre lot in
04-    2004   Sunrise Business Park to house an industrial building located in the southeast
0250          corner of Anderson Drive and Belmont Drive.
Res.   9-1-   Approving final site, landscaping and engineering of Taco Bell/Long John
04-    2004   Silver, Williams Sub Lot 6 04-20C.
0304
04-    10-6-  Approving a tax increment redevelopment plan and redevelopment project for the
0195   2004   downtown area redevelopment project area.
04-    10-6-  Designating the downtown area redevelopment project area of the village a
0196   2004   redevelopment project area pursuant to the Tax Increment Allocation
              Redevelopment Act, as amended.
04-    10-6-  Amending the Marquette Tax Increment Finance District redevelopment plan and
0198   2004   project.
04-    10-6-  Supplementing and affirming Ord. 2010-89 designating the Marquette
0199   2004   Redevelopment Project Area redevelopment project area.
05-    1-10-  Amending the Marquette Tax Increment Finance District Redevelopment Plan and
0237   2005   Project.
05-    1-10-  Supplementing and affirming Ord. 2010-89 designating the Marquette
0238   2005   Redevelopment Project Area pursuant to the Tax Increment Allocation
              Redevelopment Project Act.
05-    1-10-  Supplementing Ord. 2011-89 adopting tax increment allocation financing for the
0239   2005   Marquette Redevelopment Project Area.
05-    1-10-  Designating the Downtown Area Redevelopment Project Area a redevelopment
0240   2005   project area pursuant to the Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act.
05-    1-10-  Approving a tax increment redevelopment plan and redevelopment project for the
0241   2005   Downtown Area Redevelopment Project Area.
05-    1-10-  Adopting a tax increment allocation financing for the Downtown Area
0243   2005   Redevelopment Project Area.
10-    11-17- Approving an amendment to the planned unit development - general development
0882   2010   plan for Meijer.
19-    2-6-   Approving a business district redevelopment plan for the Normantown Road
1535   2019   Business District no. 1.
Res.   7-9-   Approving the Joliet Regional Port District Storage Hangar site and land use
25-    2025   plans.
4052
25-    10-15- Dissolving the village Marquette Economic Development Project Area Fund and
2011   2025   terminating the designation as an economic development project area.
             
 
TABLE XVI: LETTERS OF CREDIT
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
Res.  8-18-
2356- 1999   Approving a letter of credit reduction, Meadowdale Estates, Unit 1.
99
Res.  8-18-
2357- 1999   Approving a letter of credit reduction, Marquette’s Landing.
99
Res.  8-18-  Approving a letter of credit recalculation, Internationale Centre West,
2359- 1999   Phase I and II.
99
Res.  9-1-   Approving a letter of credit reduction, Weslake, Neighborhood 7, Unit
2360- 1999   2.
99
Res.  9-1-   Approving a letter of credit reduction, Weslake, Neighborhood 7, Unit
2361- 1999   1.
99
Res.  9-1-   Approving a letter of credit reduction, Weslake, Neighborhood 8, Unit
2362- 1999   1.
99
Res.  10-6-  Approving a letter of credit reduction, Wesglen, Neighborhood 6, Unit
2377- 1999   2.
99
Res.  10-6-
2379- 1999   Approving a letter of credit reduction, Meadowdale Estates, Unit 2.
99
Res.  10-20-
2386- 1999   Approving a letter of credit consolidation, Mailbu Bay subdivision.
99
Res.  11-3-
2394- 1999   Approving letter of credit reduction, Wesglen, Wesglen Parkway.
99
Res.  11-3-  Approving letter of credit establishment, Weslake, Neighborhood 8, Unit
2395- 1999   2.
99
Res.  11-3-  Approving letter of credit establishment, Wesglen, Neighborhood 3, Unit
2396- 1999   1.
99
Res.  11-3-  Approving letter of credit establishment, Wesglen, Neighborhood 5, Unit
2397- 1999   1.
99
Res.  11-3-
2398- 1999   Approving letter of credit reduction, Wesglen, Neighborhood 2, Unit 1.
99
Res.  1-5-
2427- 2000   Eliminating letter of credit, HighPoint Drive.
99
Res.  1-5-
2428- 2000   Eliminating letter of credit, Haley Meadows, Unit 1.
99
Res.  1-19-
2430- 2000   Eliminating letter of credit, Weslake, Neighborhood 10, Unit 2.
00
Res.  2-2-   Reducing letter of credit, Wesglen, Neighborhood 2, Unit 2, and
2434- 2000   Neighborhood 6, Unit 3.
00
Res.  2-16-
2446- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Heritage Place, Unit 1.
00
Res.  2-16-
2447- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Heritage Place, Unit 2A.
00
Res.  2-16-
2448- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Heritage Place, Unit 2B.
00
Res.  2-16-  Reducing letter of credit, International Centre West, Phase I, Phase II
2449- 2000   and Normantown Road.
00
Res.  3-1-
2454- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Lakewood Falls V, Budler Road.
00
Res.  3-1-
2455- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Lakewood Falls V, Pod 24.
00
Res.  3-1-
2456- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Cambridge at Carillon, Parcel 11.
00
Res.  3-1-
2457- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Cambridge at Carillon, Parcel 35.
00
Res.  3-1-
2458- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Lakewood Falls V, Pod 21.
00
Res.  3-1-
2459- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Lakewood Falls V, Pod 22.
00
Res.  5-3-
2488- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Wespark, Unit 2.
00
Res.  5-3-
2489- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 3, Unit 3.
00
Res.  5-3-
2490- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 3, Unit 2.
00
Res.  5-3-
2491- 2000   Reducing letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 2, Unit 3.
00
Res.  5-3-
2492- 2000   Eliminating letter of credit, Fairfield Meadow.
00
Res.  6-21-
2513- 2000   Reducing the letter of credit, Romeoville Commercial Park #2.
00
Res.  6-21-
2514- 2000   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen, Neighborhood 7, Unit 2.
00
Res.  6-21-
2515- 2000   Setting the letter of credit amount for Heritage Place, Unit 3.
00
Res.  6-21-
2516- 2000   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen, Neighborhood 5, Unit 2.
00
Res.  6-21-
2518- 2000   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen, Neighborhood 6, Unit 1.
00
Res.  6-21-
2519- 2000   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen, Neighborhood 4, Unit 1.
00
Res.  7-19-
2531- 2000   Eliminating the letter of credit, Weslake Taylor Road Improvements.
00
Res.  9-20-
2548- 2000   Eliminating the letter of credit, The Pines of Romeoville.
00
Res.  9-20-  Eliminating the letter of credit, Weslake Subdivision, Neighborhood 7,
2549- 2000   Unit 1.
00
Res.  9-20-  Eliminating the letter of credit, Weslake Subdivision, Neighborhood 7,
2550- 2000   Unit 2.
00
Res.  12-6-
2591- 2000   Eliminating the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls V Subdivision, Pod 21.
00
Res.  12-6-  Eliminating the letter of credit, Weslake Subdivision, Neighborhood 8,
2592- 2000   Unit 1.
00
Res.  12-6-  Eliminating the letter of credit, Weslake Subdivision, Neighborhood 8,
2593- 2000   Unit 2.
00
Res.  12-6-
2594- 2000   Eliminating the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls V Subdivision, Pod 21.
00
Res.  12-6-
2595- 2000   Eliminating the letter of credit, Malibu Bay Subdivision.
00
Res.  12-6-  Eliminating the letter of credit, Cambridge at Carillon Subdivision,
2596- 2000   Parcel 9.
00
Res.  12-20-
2598- 2000   Eliminating the letter of credit, Haley Meadows Subdivision, Phase II.
00
Res.  12-20-
2599- 2000   Eliminating the letter of credit, Wesglen Parkway, Wesglen Subdivision.
00
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 1.
1-01  2001
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 2,
2-01  2001   Unit 1.
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 2,
3-01  2001   Unit 3.
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 3,
4-01  2001   Unit 1.
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 3,
5-01  2001   Unit 2.
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 3,
6-01  2001   Unit 3.
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 4,
7-01  2001   Unit 1.
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 5,
8-01  2001   Unit 1.
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 5,
9-01  2001   Unit 2.
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 6,
10-01 2001   Unit 2.
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 6,
11-01 2001   Unit 3.
Res.  1-17-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 7,
12-01 2001   Unit 1.
Res.  2-7-   Eliminating the letter of credit, Cambridge at Carillon Subdivision,
16-01 2001   Parcel 11.
Res.  2-7-   Eliminating the letter of credit, Cambridge at Carillon Subdivision,
17-01 2001   Parcel 12.
Res.  2-7-   Reducing the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls VI Subdivision.
18-01 2001
Res.  2-7-   Reducing the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls V Subdivision, Pod 22.
19-01 2001
Res.  2-21-  Reducing the letter of credit, Marquette’s Landing.
26-01 2001
Res.  3-7-   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 4,
32-01 2001   Unit 2.
Res.  3-7-   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 8.
33-01 2001
Res.  4-4-   Reducing the letter of credit, Heritage Place, Unit 3.
41-01 2001
Res.  4-4-   Reducing the letter of credit, Heritage Place, Unit 2B (Neumann Homes).
42-01 2001
Res.  4-4-   Reducing the letter of credit, Heritage Place, Unit 2B (Poplar Ridge
43-01 2001   Estates Development Company).
Res.  4-4-   Reducing the letter of credit, Heritage Place, Unit 2A (Poplar Ridge
44-01 2001   Estates Development Company).
Res.  4-4-   Reducing the letter of credit, Heritage Place, Unit 1.
45-01 2001
Res.  4-4-   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 7,
46-01 2001   Unit 2.
Res.  4-4-   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision, Neighborhood 2,
47-01 2001   Unit 2.
Res.  4-18-  Reducing the letter of credit, International Center West, Phase III
63-01 2001   (Catellus).
Res.  5-16-  Reducing the letter of credit, Taylor Road/Pactiv (Pazzuti).
78-01 2001
Res.  6-6-   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Neighborhood 2, Unit 3.
89-01 2001
Res.  6-6-   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Neighborhood 3, Unit 1.
90-01 2001
Res.  6-6-   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Neighborhood 3, Unit 3.
91-01 2001
Res.  6-6-   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Neighborhood 5, Unit 1.
92-01 2001
Res.  6-6-   Reducing the letter of credit, Windham Industrial Center III and IV
93-01 2001   (Windham Lakes/Amli).
Res.  6-20-
101-  2001   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Neighborhood 4, Unit 1.
01
Res.  6-20-
102-  2001   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Neighborhood 4, Unit 3.
01
Res.  6-20-
103-  2001   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Neighborhood 5, Unit 2.
01
Res.  7-18-
132-  2001   Eliminating the letter of credit, Cambridge Homes, Parcel 35.
01
Res.  8-1-   Reducing the letter of credit, Marquette’s Landing Public
137-  2001   Improvement’s.
01
Res.  8-15-
141-  2001   Reducing the letter of credit, Haley Meadows - Phase III.
01
Res.  8-15-
142-  2001   Reducing the letter of credit, Lakewood Homes - Unit 5, Pod 23.
01
Res.  8-15-  Eliminating the letter of credit, Windham Industrial Center III and IV
143-  2001   - Curb Improvements.
01
Res.  12-5-
169-  2001   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision - Neighborhood 1.
01
Res.  12-5-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision - Neighborhood 4,
170-  2001   Unit 2.
01
Res.  12-5-
171-  2001   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision - Neighborhood 8.
01
Res.  12-5-
172-  2001   Eliminating the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls - Unit 5, Pod 24.
01
Res.  12-5-
173-  2001   Reducing the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls - Unit 7.
01
Res.  12-19- Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision - Neighborhood 4,
177-  2001   Unit 3.
01
Res.  1-2-
178-  2002   Reducing the letter of credit, 135th Street improvements.
01
Res.  2-6-
0002- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Marquette’s Crossing West Subdivision.
02
Res.  2-6-   Reducing the letter of credit, Nottingham Ridge Subdivision - Site
0003- 2002   Earthwork and Soil Erosion Control.
02
Res.  2-20-
0008- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Marquette’s Landing Subdivision.
02
Res.  5-1-
0041- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Marquette’s Crossing West Subdivision.
02
Res.  5-1-   Authorizing a draw on letter of credit by BSG Romeoville, LLC/Mid-
0042- 2002   Northern Equities for improvements to 135th Street.
02
Res.  5-1-   Authorizing a draw on letter of credit by BSG Romeoville, LLC/Mid-
0043- 2002   Northern Equities for improvements to 135th Street.
02
Res.  6-19-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision - Neighborhood 4,
0068- 2002   Unit 1.
02
Res.  6-19-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision - Neighborhood 4,
0069- 2002   Unit 2.
02
Res.  6-19-  Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision - Neighborhood 4,
0070- 2002   Unit 3.
02
Res.  6-19-
0071- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Wesglen Subdivision - Neighborhood 8.
02
Res.  7-3-
0083- 2002   Establishment of letter of credit, Bluff Point Development.
02
Res.  7-17-
0084- 2002   Establishment of letter of credit, Grand Haven, Unit 1.
02
Res.  8-7-
0108- 2002   Establishment of letter of credit, Grand Haven, Unit 2.
02
Res.  8-7-
0109- 2002   Establishment of letter of credit, Grand Haven, Unit 3.
02
Res.  8-7-
0110- 2002   Establishment of letter of credit, Lakewood Falls, Unit 7C.
02
Res.  8-7-
0111- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Marquette’s Crossing.
02
Res.  9-5-
0123- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls, Unit 7B.
02
Res.  10-2-
0138- 2002   Establishment of letter of credit, Marquette’s Estates - Mass Grading.
02
Res.  10-16-
0146- 2002   Establishment of letter of credit, Fieldstone - Mass Grading.
02
Res.  11-6-
0149- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Nottingham Ridge.
02
Res.  11-6-
0150- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Grand Haven, Unit 2.
02
Res.  11-6-
0151- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Grand Haven, Unit 3.
02
Res.  11-6-
0152- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls, Unit 7C.
02
Res.  12-4-
0164- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, Heritage Place Subdivision, Unit 3.
02
Res.  12-18- Reducing the letter of credit, Windham Lakes Business Park wetlands
0172- 2002   mitigation.
02
Res.  12-18-
0173- 2002   Reducing the letter of credit, The Normantown Center.
02
Res.  2-5-
0008- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Perino Commercial Building.
03
Res.  2-19-
0010- 2003   Reducing the letter of credit, Nottingham Ridge - Mass Grading.
03
Res.  4-2-
0035- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Marquette’s Estates.
03
Res.  4-16-
0044- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Fieldstone.
03
Res.  4-16-
0045- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Windham Industrial Center 7.
03
Res.  5-21-
0056- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Boldt Park.
03
Res.  5-21-
0057- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Airport Industrial Center.
03
Res.  6-4-
0064- 2003   Reducing the letter of credit, Prologis Park 55.
03
Res.  6-4-
0065- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, American Chrome.
03
Res.  7-2-
0075- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Lakewood Center Retail.
03
Res.  7-16-
0080- 2003   Reducing the letter of credit, Rogy’s Educational Center.
03
Res.  8-6-
0082- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Fieldstone.
03
Res.  8-6-
0083- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, L-Cubed Industrial Building.
03
Res.  8-6-
0084- 2003   Establishment of letter of credit, The Normantown Center.
03
Res.  9-3-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Amerisource Bergen Building.
0091
Res.  9-3-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, White Castle.
0092
Res.  9-3-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Windgate Distribution Center.
0093
Res.  10-1-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Windgate Distribution Center.
0123
Res.  10-1-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Sam’s Club Channel Relocation.
0124
Res.  10-1-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Grand Haven Marketplace.
0125
Res.  10-15-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Bluff Point Phase 1.
0134
Res.  10-15-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Park 55 Building 3 Fire Road.
0135
Res.  11-5-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Amerisource Bergen Building.
0144
Res.  11-5-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Fieldstone - Public Improvements.
0146
Res.  11-5-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Culver’s.
0147
Res.  11-19-
03-   2003   Establishment of letter of credit, Heritage Place Subdivision, Unit 3.
0151
Res.  2-18-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Grand Haven, Unit 1.
0185
Res.  2-18-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Grand Haven, Unit 2.
0186
Res.  2-18-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Grand Haven, Unit 3.
0187
Res.  2-18-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls, Unit 7.
0188
Res.  2-18-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls, Unit 7B.
0189
Res.  2-18-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Lakewood Falls, Unit 7C.
0190
Res.  3-3-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Airport Industrial Center.
0198
Res.  4-7-
04-   2004   Establishment of letter of credit, Creekside, Commercial.
0206
Res.  4-7-   Reducing the letter of credit, Internationale Center West Business
04-   2004   Park.
0207
Res.  4-7-
04-   2004   Establishment of letter of credit, Creekside, Townhouse.
0208
Res.  4-7-   Establishment of letter of credit, Creekside, west property line
04-   2004   utilities.
0209
Res.  4-7-   Establishment of letter of credit, Lakeview, Phase 1 Industrial
04-   2004   condominiums.
0210
Res.  4-7-   Establishment of letter of credit, Lot 3, Bluff Trails, Patrick Murphy
04-   2004   Building.
0211
Res.  4-21-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Lakewood Center, Retail.
0218
Res.  5-5-   Establishment of letter of credit, Windham Lakes Southwest, mass
04-   2004   grading.
0227
Res.  5-19-
04-   2004   Establishment of letter of credit, Bluff Point Phase 1, mass grading.
0233
Res.  5-19-
04-   2004   Establishment of letter of credit, Highpoint Square, Phase 2A.
0235
Res.  5-19-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Amerisource Bergen Building.
0136
Res.  6-16-
04-   2004   Establishment of letter of credit, Building 1, Park 55.
0249
Res.  7-7-
04-   2004   Establishment of letter of credit, Bank of America, Highpoint Square.
0258
Res.  7-7-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Windgage Distribution Center.
0263
Res.  7-7-
04-   2004   Establishment of letter of credit, Windham Industrial Center VII.
0264
Res.  7-7-   Establishment of letter of credit, Dart Transportation (Network
04-   2004   Strategy), Bolingbrook, IL.
0267
Res.  8-4-
04-   2004   Establishment of letter of credit, Stone Bluff.
0282
Res.  8-4-
04-   2004   Reducing the letter of credit, Marquette Estates.
0283
Res.  8-4-   Establishment of letter of credit, Lot 7 in the Romeoville Commercial
04-   2004   Park, Unit Two.
0286
Res.  8-18-
04-   2004   Establishment of letter of credit, Taco Bell/Long John Silver.
0296
Res.  8-18-
04-   2004   Establishment of letter of credit, Midwest Fuel Injection.
0294
Res.  10-6-  Establishment of letter of credit for Windham Lakes Southwest - Wetland
04-   2004   Mitigation.
0325
Res.  10-6-  Letter of credit reduction for Windham Lakes Southwest Development -
04-   2004   Mass Grading.
0327
Res.  10-6-  Letter of credit establishment for Wendy’s Restaurant (Lot 5 Williams
04-   2004   Subdivision).
0328
Res.  10-20- Letter of credit establishment for Lifetime Fitness (Lot 3, Windham
04-   2004   Lakes Resubdivision no. 22).
0334
Res.  11-17-
04-   2004   Letter of credit reduction for Bluff Point Phase I.
0346
Res.  11-17- Eliminating a letter of credit for Mass Grading Bluff Point Business
04-   2004   Park.
0347
Res.  12-15-
04-   2004   Letter of credit for Normantown Center.
0355
Res.  12-15-
04-   2004   Letter of credit reduction for High Point Plaza Phase II.
0357
Res.  12-15- Letter of credit establishment for Lakewood Estates Commercial
04-   2004   Development.
0358
Res.  1-5-
05-   2005   Letter of credit reduction for Lakeview Phase 1 Development.
0359
Res.  1-19-
05-   2005   Letter of credit establishment for Interek Caleb Brett facility.
0368
Res.  1-19-
05-   2005   Letter of credit establishment for Lot 3, Grand Haven Marketplace.
0369
Res.  1-19-
05-   2005   Letter of credit establishment for Crossroads VII facility.
0371
Res.  2-2-
05-   2005   Letter of credit reduction for Windgate Distribution Center.
0376
Res.  4-6-   Letter of credit establishment for Mass Grading and Erosion Control
05-   2005   Rose Plaza Subdivision.
0396
Res.  4-20-  Letter of credit establishment for Public Improvements S-Cubed Storage
05-   2005   Facility.
0415
Res.  5-4-
05-   2005   Letter of credit reduction for Mass Grading at Fieldstone Development.
0420
Res.  5-4-
05-   2005   Letter of credit reduction for Unit 2 of the Fieldstone Subdivision.
0421
Res.  5-4-
05-   2005   Letter of credit reduction for Unit 1 of the Fieldstone Subdivision.
0422
Res.  5-4-   Letter of credit reduction for the sanitary sewer on Helen Drive at
05-   2005   Fieldstone.
0423
Res.  5-4-   Letter of credit reduction for lift station and force main at
05-   2005   Fieldstone Development.
0424
Res.  5-4-   Letter of credit establishment for public improvements required for the
05-   2005   Normantown Square Development.
0425
Res.  5-4-   Letter of credit establishment for public improvements required for the
05-   2005   industrial building located on Lot 1 in the Southwest Quad Development.
0426
Res.  5-18-  Letter of credit reduction for public improvements at the Pointe at
05-   2005   Fieldstone Subdivision.
0431
Res.  6-1-
05-   2005   Letter of credit establishment for Rose Plaza Subdivision.
0434
Res.  7-6-   Letter of credit establishment for public improvements, Greenhaven
05-   2005   Subdivision.
0452
Res.  7-6-   Letter of credit reduction for mass grading for Greenhaven at
05-   2005   Meadowdale Estates.
0454
Res.  7-20-
05-   2005   Letter of credit establishment for Bennish Car Wash.
0455
Res.  8-23-
05-   2005   Letter of credit reduction for Marquette Estates.
0469
Res.  9-7-
05-   2005   Letter of credit reduction for Rose Plaza.
0470
Res.  9-7-
05-   2005   Letter of credit establishment for Argonne Credit Union.
0473
Res.  9-21-
05-   2005   Letter of credit reduction for Marquette Estates.
0482
Res.  10-5-
05-   2005   Letter of credit establishment for public improvement, Able Masonry.
0485
Res.  10-19- Letter of credit reduction for public improvement for Greenhaven at
05-   2005   Meadowdale Estates.
0487
Res.  10-19- Letter of credit establishment for public improvement for Brunswick
05-   2005   Zone.
0488
Res.  10-19-
05-   2005   Letter of credit reduction for Creekside Residential Townhomes.
0489
Res.  10-19- Letter of credit establishment for water and sewer, Harmon Building
05-   2005   Addition.
0490
Res.  10-19- Letter of credit establishment for public improvements for Bluff Point
05-   2005   (Lot 2).
0491
Res.  11-2-  Letter of credit establishment for the floodplain modifications at the
05-   2005   proposed commercial development located at the southwest corner of
0499         Airport Road and Weber Road.
Res.  11-16- Letter of credit establishment for public improvements, Valley View
05-   2005   Transportation and Maintenance Facility.
0501
Res.  11-16- Letter of credit establishment for public improvements for American
05-   2005   Sales.
0502
Res.  12-7-
05-   2005   Letter of credit establishment for Highpoint Square, Phase 3.
0504
Res.  12-7-
05-   2005   Letter of credit reduction for L-Cubed.
0509
Res.  12-7-  Letter of credit establishment for Heritage Place Unit 3, remaining
05-   2005   Shenandoah Drive improvements.
0510
Res.  12-7-  Letter of credit establishment for Marquette Crossing East, Wetland
05-   2005   Pond.
0514
Res.  12-21-
05-   2005   Letter of credit establishment for Metavante Parking Lot expansion.
0517
Res.  12-21-
05-   2005   Letter of credit establishment for Frontage Road extension.
0519
Res.  1-18-  Letter of credit reduction for Stone Bluff Residential Subdivision
06-   2006   (Phase 1).
0524
Res.  1-18-  Letter of credit reduction for Stone Bluff Residential Subdivision
06-   2006   (Phase 2).
0525
Res.  2-1-
06-   2006   Letter of credit establishment for Huskies International Ice Center.
0529
Res.  3-1-   Letter of credit establishment for Airport Industrial Center (Lots 16
06-   2006   to 26).
0546
Res.  4-5-
06-   2006   Letter of credit establishment for Frontage Road improvement.
0559
Res.  4-5-
06-   2006   Letter of credit establishment for water main extension.
0560
Res.  4-5-
06-   2006   Letter of credit reduction for Normantown Square Commercial.
0566
Res.  4-19-  Letter of credit for retail center located on Lot 9 in the Carillon
06-   2006   Court Retail Complex.
0570
Res.  5-17-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Budler Road Retail Center.
0583
Res.  5-17-  Letter of credit for mass grading and erosion control at the proposed
06-   2006   commercial development located at the southwest corner of Airport Road
0587         and Weber Road.
Res.  6-7-   Letter of credit for early start grading and erosion control at the
06-   2006   proposed Misty Ridge Subdivision.
0596
Res.  7-5-   Letter of credit for mass grading and erosion control at the proposed
06-   2006   commercial development located at the northeast corner of Airport Road
0612         and Weber Road.
Res.  7-5-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Citgo Petroleum Corporation temporary parking lot.
0613
Res.  7-5-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Southwest Quadrant Building #2.
0614
Res.  7-5-   Letter of credit reduction for Preserve Unit 2 of the Fieldstone
06-   2006   Subdivision.
0615
Res.  7-5-
06-   2006   Letter of credit reduction for Pointe of the Fieldstone Subdivision.
0616
Res.  9-6-
06-   2006   Letter of credit reduction for Greenhaven at Meadowdale Subdivision.
0643
Res.  9-6-
06-   2006   Letter of credit reduction for Windham Industrial Center Building 7.
0644
Res.  9-6-
06-   2006   Letter of credit reduction for Southwest Quad Mass Grading.
0645
Res.  9-6-   Letter of credit reduction for Southwest Quad, Building 1 public
06-   2006   improvements.
0646
Res.  9-20-
06-   2006   Letter of credit reduction for Creekside Commercial Development.
0649
Res.  10-18-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Romeoville Commercial Lots 13 and 14.
0655
Res.  10-18-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Lockport Township Fire Station no. 5.
0656
Res.  10-18-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Gas City Car Wash.
0657
Res.  11-1-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Taylor Road Retail Center.
0620
Res.  11-1-
06-   2006   Letter of credit reduction for Normantown Square Development.
0660
Res.  11-1-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Speedway Redevelopment.
0661
Res.  11-15-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Park 55 Building #2, Duke Construction.
0664
Res.  11-15-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Paragon Business Park, First American.
0665
Res.  11-15-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Offsite Water, Sancta Alberta Chapel Addition.
0668
Res.  12-6-
06-   2006   Letter of credit for Offices at Windham Lakes - Phase II.
0679
Res.  1-17-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Triumph Development, Pinnacle Business Park Lot 1.
0709
Res.  3-21-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Expert Automotive Building Addition.
0732
Res.  4-18-
07-   2007   Letter of credit reduction for Misty Ridge Subdivision.
0745
Res.  4-18-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Creme de la Creme.
0749
Res.  5-2-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Rubloff Offsite Water under Weber Road.
0763
Res.  5-2-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Bolingbrook Corporate Center, Building #4.
0765
Res.  5-2-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for St. Andrews The Apostle Parish - Phase 2.
0767
Res.  5-16-  Letter of credit for public improvements at the proposed commercial
07-   2007   development located at the southwest corner of Airport Road and Weber
0778         Road.
Res.  5-16-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for the Airport Road roadway improvements.
0779
Res.  5-16-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for the Airport Road roadway improvements.
0780
Res.  6-20-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Wilton Industries Building Addition.
0803
Res.  7-18-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Building 3, Southwest Quad.
0811
Res.  7-18-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for 5 Romeo Road.
0812
Res.  7-18-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Quantum Foods Forcemain.
0813
Res.  7-18-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for McDonals’s, Rose Plaza.
0814
Res.  8-1-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Chase Bank.
0818
Res.  8-15-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Wal-Mart.
0825
Res.  8-15-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Building 4, Southwest Quad.
0826
Res.  8-15-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Rubloff Commercial Development - Phase 1.
0827
Res.  8-15-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Bolingbrook Crossroads - Lot 5.
0828
Res.  9-5-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Paragon Business Park Building D1.
0834
Res.  9-5-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Paragon Business Park Building G1.
0835
Res.  9-19-
07-   2007   Letter of credit reduction for Wal-Mart Development.
0842
Res.  10-3-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Crossroads Lakes, Lot 1.
0849
Res.  10-3-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Corporate Corridors of Romeoville.
0850
Res.  10-3-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Fifth Third Bank.
0851
Res.  10-3-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for 1000 Crossroads Parkway.
0852
Res.  10-17-
07-   2007   Letter of credit for Midwest Senior Living of Romeoville.
0857
Res.  11-7-
07-   2007   Letter of credit reduction for Paragon Business Park.
0866
Res.  11-7-
07-   2007   Letter of credit reduction for Sam’s Club-Channel Improvements.
0867
Res.  11-21-
07-   2007   Letter of credit reduction for Boldt Park.
0872
Res.  12-5-
07-   2007   Letter of credit reduction for Rose Plaza.
0879
Res.  1-16-  Letter of credit for public improvements at the proposed commercial
08-   2008   development located at the northeast corner of IL 53 and Romeo Road.
0895
Res.  2-6-   Letter of credit for public improvements at the proposed commercial
08-   2008   development located at 259 S. Weber Road.
0902
Res.  2-20-  Letter of credit for public improvements at the proposed commercial
08-   2008   development located at the northeast corner of Airport Road and Weber
0903         Road.
Res.  2-20-
08-   2008   Letter of credit reduction for Paragon Business Park Building D1.
0904
Res.  2-20-
08-   2008   Letter of credit reduction for Paragon Business Park Building G1.
0905
Res.  4-2-   Letter of credit for public improvements at the proposed industrial
08-   2008   development located at 600 West Crossroads Parkway, Bolingbrook, IL.
0918
Res.  4-16-
08-   2008   Letter of credit for the addition to the Wilton Industries Building.
0936
Res.  7-2-
08-   2008   Letter of credit reduction for Misty Ridge Subdivision.
0975
Res.  7-16-  Letter of credit for public improvements required for 801 N. Schmidt
08-   2008   Road.
0986
Res.  7-16-  Letter of credit for the temporary parking lot located at the Citgo
08-   2008   refinery.
0987
Res.  7-16-  Letter of credit for the temporary parking lot located at the Citgo
08-   2008   refinery.
0988
Res.  7-16-  Letter of credit for the public improvements required for CGI Automated
08-   2008   Manufacturing, Inc.
0989
Res.  8-6-   Letter of credit for the public sanitary sewer and interim stormwater
08-   2008   management facilities at Lewis University.
0993
Res.  8-20-  Letter of credit for Airport Industrial Center (Lots 20 and 21)
08-   2008   Development.
1003
Res.  10-1-
08-   2008   Letter of credit reduction for Romeoville Crossing.
1023
Res.  10-1-
08-   2008   Letter of credit reduction for Stone Bluff Subdivision Phase 2.
1024
Res.  10-1-
08-   2008   Letter of credit reduction for the Stone Bluff Subdivision Phase I.
1025
Res.  10-1-  Letter of credit reduction for the Rubloff Commercial Development Phase
08-   2008   I.
1026
Res.  11-5-
08-   2008   Establish letter of credit for Weber Town Center.
1045
Res.  11-5-  Establish letter of credit for Citgo Petroleum Corporation - 135th
08-   2008   Street improvements.
1048
Res.  11-5-
08-   2008   Establish letter of credit for Rasmussen College (Weber Town Center).
1049
Res.  12-3-
08-   2008   Establish letter of credit for IUOE Local 150.
1063
Res.  12-3-
08-   2008   Letter of credit reduction for east leg of Airport Road at Weber Road.
1064
Res.  12-17-
08-   2008   Letter of credit reduction for Creme de la Creme.
1071
Res.  1-21-
09-   2009   Establish letter of credit for Len Cox & Sons Excavating.
1078
Res.  1-21-
09-   2009   Establish letter of credit for Orange Crush, LLC.
1079
Res.  2-18-
09-   2009   Establish letter of credit for Rubloff End Cap.
1087
Res.  2-18-
09-   2009   Letter of credit reduction for mass grading for ProLogis Park 55.
1092
Res.  4-15-
09-   2009   Establish letter of credit for Bennett & Brosseau Roofing.
1115
Res.  4-15-
09-   2009   Letter of credit reduction for Lakewood Center Retail.
1119
Res.  5-20-
09-   2009   Letter of credit reduction for Midwest Senior Living of Romeoville.
1126
Res.  6-17-
09-   2009   Establish letter of credit for Kehe Foods Phase 1.
1149
Res.  7-1-   Establish letter of credit for Romeoville Crossings - Outlot 4 Strip
09-   2009   Center.
1155
Res.  7-15-
09-   2009   Establish letter of credit for 684 Phelps - Romeoville Industrial Park.
1161
Res.  8-5-   Establish letter of credit for access road through Creekside
09-   2009   Development.
1166
Res.  8-5-
09-   2009   Letter of credit reduction for 135th Street Improvements.
1172
Res.  9-16-  Establish letter of credit for site improvements at 19464 Airport Road
09-   2009   (International Hauling).
1187
Res.  12-2-  Letter of credit reduction for Southwest Quad Development Wetlands
09-   2009   Mitigation.
1216
Res.  2-17-
10-   2010   Letter of credit reduction for the Kohl’s Development.
1229
Res.  3-17-  Establish letter of credit for the construction of the Verizon Wireless
10-   2010   Cell Tower on the north side of 135th Street across from Big Run Golf
1238         Club.
Res.  4-7-   Establish letter of credit for the construction of a proposed building
10-   2010   and parking lot expansion at 1165 Arbor Drive (Lot 31) in the Windham
1247         Lakes Business Park.
Res.  4-21-  Establish letter of credit for the parking lot expansion of Amsysco,
10-   2010   Inc. - 1200 Windham Parkway in the Windham Lakes Business Park.
1257
Res.  4-21-  Letter of credit reduction for the Lakewood Estates Lot 27 Commercial
10-   2010   Site Development.
1258
Res.  5-19-  Establish letter of credit for the public/erosion control improvement
10-   2010   for Firestone located on Outlot 11 of the Romeoville Crossings
1274         Commercial Development.
Res.  5-19-  Establish letter of credit for the mass grading of the Trinity parcel
10-   2010   located at the southern end of Pinnacle Drive in the Southcreek
1276         Business Park.
Res.  10-6-
10-   2010   Letter of credit reduction for Rasmussen College development.
1335
Res.  10-6-
10-   2010   Letter of credit reduction for Paragon Business Park development.
1336
Res.  10-6-
10-   2010   Letter of credit reduction for Weber Town Center development.
1337
Res.  10-6-
10-   2010   Letter of credit reduction for the Rose Plaza development.
1338
Res.  2-9-
11-   2011   Letter of credit reduction for the Argonne Credit Union development.
1373
Res.  3-2-
11-   2011   Letter of credit reduction for the Wilton Building Expansion project.
1385
Res.  3-2-
11-   2011   Letter of credit reduction for the Chili’s development.
1386
Res.  3-2-
11-   2011   Letter of credit release for the Southwest Quad Mitigation Wetlands.
1387
Res.  4-6-   Letter of credit reduction for Lewis University sanitary sewer and
11-   2011   stormwater management.
1400
Res.  4-6-
11-   2011   Letter of credit reduction for water main extension for 5 Romeo Road.
1401
Res.  9-5-   Letter of credit reduction for Mistwood Golf Club Learning Center and
12-   2012   Club House.
1578
Res.  11-5-
12-   2012   Letter of authorization for Verizon Wireless.
1607
Res.  2-20-
13-   2013   Letter of credit reduction for the Meijer Weber Road improvements.
1624
Res.  3-5-
14-   2014   Letter of credit reduction for the Meijer Weber Road improvements.
1783
Res.  4-15-
15-   2015   Letter of credit release for the Meijer Road improvements.
1948
Res.  5-20-
15-   2015   Letter of credit release for S Cubed Storage, LLC.
1967
            
 
TABLE XVII: TAX ABATEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1999
2716-99       11-17-1999  to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1999
2717-99       11-17-1999  to pay principal and interest on $12,620,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series B and C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1999
2718-99       11-17-1999  to pay principal and interest on $9,970,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1996 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1999
2719-99       11-17-1999  to pay principal and interest on $5,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1997 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1999
2720-99       11-17-1999  to pay principal and interest on $4,875,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1999 Series.
2731-99       1-5-2000    Authorizing a tax abatement for the levy year 1999
                          for Mistwood Golf Course.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2000
2-01          1-17-2000   to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2000
3-01          1-17-2000   to pay principal and interest on $12,620,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series B and C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2000
4-01          1-17-2000   to pay principal and interest on $9,970,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1996 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2000
5-01          1-17-2000   to pay principal and interest on $4,875,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1999.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2000
6-01          1-17-2000   to pay principal and interest on $5,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1997 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2000
0002-01       1-17-2001   to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series A.
100-01        11-7-2001   Authorizing a tax abatement for the levy year 2001
                          for Mistwood Golf Course.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2001
0001-02       1-16-2002   to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2001
0002-02       1-16-2002   to pay principal and interest on $12,620,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series B and C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2001
0003-02       1-16-2002   to pay principal and interest on $9,970,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1996 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2001
0004-02       1-16-2002   to pay principal and interest on $5,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1997 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2001
0005-02       1-16-2002   to pay principal and interest on $4,875,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1999 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2001
0006-02       1-16-2002   to pay principal and interest on $10,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2001 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2001
0007-02       1-16-2002   to pay principal and interest on $8,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2001 Series B.
0008-02       1-16-2002   Ordering the Will County Clerk to abate real estate
                          taxes pursuant to Ord. 2482-97 and Ord. 2483-97.
0080-02       11-6-2002   Authorizing a tax abatement for the levy year 2002
                          for Mistwood Golf Course.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2002
0097-02       12-18-2002  to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2002
0098-02       12-18-2002  to pay principal and interest on $9,970,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1996 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2002
0099-02       12-18-2002  to pay principal and interest on $5,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1997 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2002
0100-02       12-18-2002  to pay principal and interest on $4,875,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1999 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2002
0101-02       12-18-2002  to pay principal and interest on $10,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2001 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2002
0102-02       12-18-2002  to pay principal and interest on $8,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2001 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2003
03-0089       12-17-2003  to pay principal and interest on $9,970,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1996 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2003
03-0090       12-17-2003  to pay principal and interest on $5,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1997 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2003
03-0091       12-17-2003  to pay principal and interest on $4,875,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1999 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2003
03-0092       12-17-2003  to pay principal and interest on $8,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2001 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2003
03-0093       12-17-2003  to pay principal and interest on $10,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2001 Series A.
03-0094       12-17-2003  Authorizing a tax abatement for the levy year 2003
                          for Mistwood Golf Course.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2003
04-0135       3-17-2004   to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2004
04-0219       12-1-2004   to pay principal and interest on $9,970,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1996 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2004
04-0220       12-1-2004   to pay principal and interest on $5,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1997 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2004
04-0221       12-1-2004   to pay principal and interest on $4,875,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1999 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2004
04-0222       12-1-2004   to pay principal and interest on $8,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2001 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2004
04-0223       12-1-2004   to pay principal and interest on $10,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2001 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2004
04-0224       12-1-2004   to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2004
04-0229       12-1-2004   to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2004.
04-0236       12-15-2004  Authorizing a tax abatement (levy year 2004) for
                          Mistwood Golf Course.
05-0335       11-2-2005   Authorizing a tax abatement (levy year 2005) for
                          Mistwood Golf Course.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005
05-0356       12-22-2005  to pay principal and interest on $6,480,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2005.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005
05-0360       12-22-2005  to pay principal and interest on $5,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 1997
                          Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005
05-0361       12-22-2005  to pay principal and interest on $4,875,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 1999
                          Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005
05-0362       12-22-2005  to pay principal and interest on $8,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 2001
                          Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005
05-0363       12-22-2005  to pay principal and interest on $10,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 2001
                          Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005
05-0364       12-22-2005  to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 1991
                          Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005
05-0365       12-22-2005  to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2004.
06-0386       3-15-2006   Authorizing a tax abatement for Levy Home
                          Entertainment.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005
06-0491       12-20-2006  to pay principal and interest on $6,480,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2005.
06-0493       12-20-2006  Authorizing a tax abatement for Mistwood Golf Course.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006
06-0494       12-20-2006  to pay principal and interest on $5,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 1997
                          Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006
06-0496       12-20-2006  to pay principal and interest on $4,875,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 1999
                          Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006
06-0498       12-20-2006  to pay principal and interest on $8,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 2001
                          Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006
06-0499       12-20-2006  to pay principal and interest on $10,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 2001
                          Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006
06-0500       12-20-2006  to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2004.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006
06-0501       12-20-2006  to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 1991 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007
07-0615       12-19-2007  to pay principal and interest on $6,480,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2005 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007
07-0616       12-19-2007  to pay principal and interest on $4,820,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007
07-0617       12-19-2007  to pay principal and interest on $12,900,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007
07-0618       12-19-2007  to pay principal and interest on $4,875,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 1999
                          Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007
07-0619       12-19-2007  to pay principal and interest on $8,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 2001
                          Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007
07-0620       12-19-2007  to pay principal and interest on $10,000,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 2001
                          Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007
07-0621       12-19-2007  to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2004 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007
07-0622       12-19-2007  to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 1991
                          Series A.
08-0649       4-16-2008   Authorizing a tax abatement for Mistwood Golf Course
                          for the year 2007.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008
08-0734       12-17-2008  to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2004.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008
08-0735       12-17-2008  to pay principal and interest on $6,480,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2005.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008
08-0736       12-17-2008  to pay principal and interest on $4,820,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008
08-0737       12-17-2008  to pay principal and interest on $12,900,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008
08-0738       12-17-2008  to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2008 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008
08-0739       12-17-2008  to pay principal and interest on $4,865,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2008 Series C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008
09-0752       3-4-2009    to pay principal and interest on $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 1991
                          Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009
09-0804       12-16-2009  to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2004.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009
09-0805       12-16-2009  to pay principal and interest on $6,480,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2005.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009
09-0806       12-16-2009  to pay principal and interest on $4,820,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009
09-0807       12-16-2009  to pay principal and interest on $12,900,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009
09-0808       12-16-2009  to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2008 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009
09-0809       12-16-2009  to pay principal and interest of $4,865,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2008 Series C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009
09-0810       12-16-2009  to pay principal and interest of $3,465,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternative revenue source), 1991
                          Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009
09-0811       12-16-2009  to pay principal and interest on $6,700,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternative revenue source), 2009
                          Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2010
10-0889       12-8-2010   to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2004.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2010
10-0890       12-8-2010   to pay principal and interest on $6,480,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2005.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2010
10-0891       12-8-2010   to pay principal and interest on $4,820,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2010
10-0892       12-8-2010   to pay principal and interest on $12,900,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2010
10-0893       12-8-2010   to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2008 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2010
10-0894       12-8-2010   to pay principal and interest on $4,865,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2008 Series C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2010
10-0895       12-8-2010   to pay principal and interest on $6,700,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 2009
                          Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011
11-0946       12-21-2011  to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2004.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011
11-0947       12-21-2011  to pay principal and interest on $6,480,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2005.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011
11-0948       12-21-2011  to pay principal and interest on $4,820,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011
11-0949       12-21-2011  to pay principal and interest on $12,900,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011
11-0950       12-21-2011  to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2008 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011
11-0951       12-21-2011  to pay principal and interest on $4,865,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2008 Series C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011
11-0952       12-21-2011  to pay principal and interest on $6,700,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 2009
                          Series.
                          Establishing maximum tax rates for the village and
11-0954       12-21-2011  authorizing the Village Manager and Finance Director
                          to make the appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2011 tax levy for the village.
12-1007       9-5-2012    Authorizing a tax abatement to Aryzta, LLC located at
                          1120 West Crossroads Parkway.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2012
12-1024       12-19-2012  to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2004.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2012
12-1025       12-19-2012  to pay principal and interest on $6,480,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2005.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2012
12-1026       12-19-2012  to pay principal and interest on $4,820,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2012
12-1027       12-19-2012  to pay principal and interest on $12,900,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2012
12-1028       12-19-2012  to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2008 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2012
12-1029       12-19-2012  to pay principal and interest on $4,865,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2008 Series C.
                          Establishing maximum tax rates for the village and
13-1075       12-18-2013  authorizing the Village Manager and Finance Director
                          to make the appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2013 tax levy for the village.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013
13-1076       12-18-2013  to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2004.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013
13-1077       12-18-2013  to pay principal and interest on $6,480,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2005.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013
13-1078       12-18-2013  to pay principal and interest on $4,820,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013
13-1079       12-18-2013  to pay principal and interest on $12,900,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013
13-1080       12-18-2013  to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2008 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013
13-1081       12-18-2013  to pay principal and interest on $4,865,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2008 Series C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013
13-1082       12-18-2013  to pay principal and interest on $6,700,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), 2009
                          Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013
13-1083       12-18-2013  to pay principal and interest on $12,780,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2013 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013
13-1084       12-18-2013  to pay principal and interest on $2,175,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2013 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014
14-1153       12-17-2014  to pay principal and interest on $22,025,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2004.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014
14-1154       12-17-2014  to pay principal and interest on $6,480,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2005.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014
14-1155       12-17-2014  to pay principal and interest on $4,820,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014
14-1156       12-17-2014  to pay principal and interest on $12,900,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014
14-1157       12-17-2014  to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2008 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014
14-1158       12-17-2014  to pay principal and interest on $4,865,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2008 Series C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014
14-1159       12-17-2014  to pay principal and interest on $6,700,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternative revenue source), 2009
                          Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014
14-1160       12-17-2014  to pay principal and interest on $12,780,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2013 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014
14-1161       12-17-2014  to pay principal and interest on $2,175,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2013 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014
14-1162       12-17-2014  to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2014 Series.
                          Establishing maximum tax rates for the village and
15-1241       12-16-2015  authorizing the Village Manager and Finance Director
                          to make the appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2015 tax levy for the village.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2015
15-1242       12-16-2015  to pay principal and interest on $4,820,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2015
15-1243       12-16-2015  to pay principal and interest on $12,900,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2007 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2015
15-1244       12-16-2015  to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2008 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2015
15-1245       12-16-2015  to pay principal and interest on $4,865,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2008 Series C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2015
15-1246       12-16-2015  to pay principal and interest on $6,700,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2009 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2015
15-1247       12-16-2015  to pay principal and interest on $12,780,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2013 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2015
15-1248       12-16-2015  to pay principal and interest on $2,175,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2013 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2015
15-1249       12-16-2015  to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2014.
                          Establishing maximum tax rates for the village and
16-1331       12-7-2016   authorizing the Village Manager and Finance Director
                          to make the appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2016 tax levy for the village.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2016
16-1332       12-7-2016   to pay principal and interest on $4,820,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2007 A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2016
16-1333       12-7-2016   to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2008 A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2016
16-1334       12-7-2016   to pay principal and interest on $4,865,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2008 C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2016
16-1335       12-7-2016   to pay principal and interest on $6,700,000 general
                          obligation bonds (alternative revenue source), Series
                          2009.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2016
16-1336       12-7-2016   to pay principal and interest on $12,870,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, Series 2013 A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2016
16-1337       12-7-2016   to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2014.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2016
16-1338       12-7-2016   to pay principal and interest on $2,175,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2013 B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2016
16-1339       12-7-2016   to pay principal and interest on $11,950,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2016.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2016
16-1340       12-7-2016   to pay principal and interest on $5,105,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2016 A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2017
17-1434       12-6-2017   to pay principal and interest on $4,865,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2008 C.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2017
17-1435       12-6-2017   to pay principal and interest on $12,870,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, Series 2013 A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2017
17-1436       12-6-2017   to pay principal and interest on $2,175,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2013 B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2017
17-1437       12-6-2017   to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2014.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2017
17-1438       12-6-2017   to pay principal and interest on $5,105,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2016 A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2017
17-1439       12-6-2017   to pay principal and interest on $11,950,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2016.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2017
17-1440       12-6-2017   to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, Series 2008 A.
18-1524       12-5-2018   Authorizing appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2018 tax levy.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2018
18-1525       12-5-2018   to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2008 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2018
18-1526       12-5-2018   to pay principal and interest on $12,870,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2013 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2018
18-1527       12-5-2018   to pay principal and interest on $2,175,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2013 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2018
18-1528       12-5-2018   to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2014.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2018
18-1529       12-5-2018   to pay principal and interest on $5,105,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2016 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2018
18-1530       12-5-2018   to pay principal and interest on $11,950,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2016.
                          Establishing maximum tax rates for the village and
19-1607       12-4-2019   authorizing the Village Manager and Finance Director
                          to make the appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2019 tax levy.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2019
19-1608       12-4-2019   to pay principal and interest on $10,800,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2008 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2019
19-1609       12-4-2019   to pay principal and interest on $12,870,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2013 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2019
19-1610       12-4-2019   to pay principal and interest on $2,175,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2013 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2019
19-1611       12-4-2019   to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2014.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2019
19-1612       12-4-2019   to pay principal and interest on $5,105,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2016 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2019
19-1613       12-4-2019   to pay principal and interest on $11,950,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2016.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2019
19-1614       12-4-2019   to pay principal and interest on $78,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2019
19-1615       12-4-2019   to pay principal and interest on $20,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series B.
                          Establishing maximum tax rates for the village and
20-1665       12-2-2020   authorizing the Village Manager and Finance Director
                          to make the appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2020 tax levy for the village.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2020
20-1666       12-2-2020   to pay principal and interest on $12,870,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2013 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2020
20-1667       12-2-2020   to pay principal and interest on $2,175,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2013 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2020
20-1668       12-2-2020   to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2014.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2020
20-1669       12-2-2020   to pay principal and interest on $5,105,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2016 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2020
20-1670       12-2-2020   to pay principal and interest on $78,250,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2019 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2020
20-1671       12-2-2020   to pay principal and interest on $20,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2021
21-1736       12-15-2021  to pay principal and interest on $12,870,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2013 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2021
21-1737       12-15-2021  to pay principal and interest on $1,985,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2021 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2021
21-1738       12-15-2021  to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2014.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2021
21-1739       12-15-2021  to pay principal and interest on $5,105,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2016 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2021
21-1740       12-15-2021  to pay principal and interest on $78,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2021
21-1741       12-15-2021  to pay principal and interest on $20,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2021
21-1742       12-15-2021  to pay principal and interest on $8,580,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2021 Series B.
                          Establishing maximum tax rates for the village and
22-1803       12-7-2022   authorizing the Village Manager and Finance Director
                          to make the appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2022 tax levy for the village.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2022
22-1804       12-7-2022   to pay principal and interest on $12,870,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2013 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2022
22-1805       12-7-2022   to pay principal and interest on $1,985,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2021 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2022
22-1806       12-7-2022   to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2014.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2022
22-1807       12-7-2022   to pay principal and interest on $5,105,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2016 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2022
22-1808       12-7-2022   to pay principal and interest on $78,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2022
22-1809       12-7-2022   to pay principal and interest on $20,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2022
22-1810       12-7-2022   to pay principal and interest on $8,580,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2021 Series B.
                          Establishing maximum tax rates for the village and
23-1874       12-6-2023   authorizing the Village Manager and Finance Director
                          to make the appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2023 tax levy.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2023
23-1875       12-6-2023   to pay principal and interest on $12,870,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2013 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2023
23-1876       12-6-2023   to pay principal and interest on $1,985,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2021 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2023
23-1877       12-6-2023   to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2014.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2023
23-1878       12-6-2023   to pay principal and interest on $5,105,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2016 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2023
23-1879       12-6-2023   to pay principal and interest on $78,250,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2019 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2023
23-1880       12-6-2023   to pay principal and interest on $20,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2023
23-1881       12-6-2023   to pay principal and interest on $8,580,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2021 Series B.
                          Establishing maximum tax rates for the village and
24-1946       12-4-2024   authorizing the Village Manager and Finance Director
                          to make the appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2023 tax levy.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2024
24-1947       12-4-2024   to pay principal and interest on $12,870,000 taxable
                          general obligation bonds, 2013 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2024
24-1948       12-4-2024   to pay principal and interest on $1,985,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2021 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2024
24-1949       12-4-2024   to pay principal and interest on $9,195,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, Series 2014.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2024
24-1950       12-4-2024   to pay principal and interest on $5,105,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2016 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2024
24-1951       12-4-2024   to pay principal and interest on $78,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2024
24-1952       12-4-2024   to pay principal and interest on $20,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2024
24-1953       12-4-2024   to pay principal and interest on $8,580,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2021 Series B.
                          Establishing maximum tax rates for the village and
25-2021       12-3-2025   authorizing the Village Manager and Finance Director
                          to make the appropriate adjustments and abatements to
                          the 2025 tax levy for the village.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2025
25-2022       12-3-2025   to pay principal and interest on $5,105,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2016 Series A.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2025
25-2023       12-3-2025   to pay principal and interest on $78,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2025
25-2024       12-3-2025   to pay principal and interest on $20,250,000 general
                          obligation bonds, 2019 Series B.
                          Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2025
25-2025       12-3-2025   to pay principal and interest on $8,580,000 general
                          obligation refunding bonds, 2021 Series B.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                        Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                    10.06
5 ILCS 70/1.02                    10.06
5 ILCS 70/1.03                    10.06
5 ILCS 70/1.04                    10.06
5 ILCS 70/1.05                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.07                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.08                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.09                    10.06
5 ILCS 70/1.10                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.11                    10.06
5 ILCS 70/1.12                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.15                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.16                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.17                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.20                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.24                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.27                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.28                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.29                    10.05
5 ILCS 70/1.31                    10.09
5 ILCS 70/2                       10.07
5 ILCS 70/3                       10.08
5 ILCS 70/4                       10.08
5 ILCS 100/                       119.02
5 ILCS 100/1-1 et seq.            41.22;
                                  41.23
5 ILCS 100/10-25                  119.02
5 ILCS 100/10-35                  119.02
5 ILCS 100/10-40                  119.02
                                  35.147;
                                  35.187;
                                  35.202;
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.              35.217;
                                  37.129;
                                  157.221;
                                  157.225
5 ILCS 120/2.01                   30.03
5 ILCS 120/7                      30.03
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.              Ch. 37, App. A;
                                  152.05
5 ILCS 315/3                      37.125
5 ILCS 425 et seq.                Ch. 37, App. A
5 ILCS 425/83                     Ch. 37, App. A
10 ILCS 5/7-41                    157.163
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4                   37.125
10 ILCS 5/9-3                     37.125
15 ILCS 40510.02d                 41.23
Ch. 18b ILCS                      74.089
20 ILCS 1605                      138.02
20 ILCS 1605/7.12                 138.02
20 ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.         137.02
20 ILCS 2910/1                    91.18
                                  38.01;
20 ILCS 3305/1                    38.03;
                                  38.09
30 ILCS 235 et seq.               36.028
30 ILCS 235/2                     36.030
30 ILCS 238/1                     36.033
35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.             110.05
35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.             110.05
                                  44.031;
35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.             110.05;
                                  112.053;
                                  132.060
35 ILCS 130/1                     118.01
35 ILCS 143/10-5                  118.01
35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.           44.003
35 ILCS 200/27-5 et seq.          57.245
35 ILCS 200/31-1                  44.170;
                                  44.171
35 ILCS 200/31-1 et seq.          44.173
35 ILCS 505/1 et seq.             44.140
35 ILCS 645/5-1 et seq.           55.04
40 ILCS 5                         32.004
40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.           37.001
40 ILCS 5/3-128                   35.020
40 ILCS 5/4-121                   35.021
40 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.          37.015
40 ILCS 5/21-102.3                37.018
50 ILCS 45/1                      44.003
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.              116.06;
                                  116.07
50 ILCS 105/3 et seq.             36.027
50 ILCS 105/4.1                   Ch. 37, App. A
50 ILCS 345/1 et seq.             36.009
50 ILCS 505/1 et seq.             36.048;
                                  36.052
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.             35.004;
                                  91.18
50 ILCS 710                       137.02
50 ILCS 710/0.01 et seq.          91.18
50 ILCS 740/1 et seq.             32.005;
                                  132.064
                                  56.02;
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.             56.03;
                                  56.08
55 ILCS 5/3-9005                  137.02
55 ILCS 5/5-1062                  57.260
55 ILCS 5/5-1104                  57.260
55 ILCS 5/5-1127                  70.01
65 ILCS 5/1 et seq.               54.001
65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.           41.10
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                   10.05
                                  10.99;
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                   70.99;
                                  130.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 et seq.           154.08
                                  92.140;
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.5(b)              154.05;
                                  154.08
65 ILCS 5/1-2-5                   10.17;
                                  10.18
65 ILCS 5/1-2-6                   10.19
65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-1 et seq.         41.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25               31.081
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30               31.081
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45               31.082
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5                31.075
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5                31.060
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10               36.045;
                                  36.053
65 ILCS 5/5-1-1 et seq.           36.003
65 ILCS 5/7-1-47                  157.009
65 ILCS 5/8-1                     36.001
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9                   36.003
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.1                 36.008
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.2—8-2-9.10      36.008
65 ILCS 5/8-3-14a                 44.106
65 ILCS 5/8-7-1 et seq.           36.007
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                  44.125
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5                  44.126
65 ILCS 5/8-11-7                  44.030
65 ILCS 5/8-11-8                  44.045
65 ILCS 5/8-11-23 et seq.         44.128
65 ILCS 5/8-11-24                 44.215;
                                  44.216
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1 et seq.          32.001
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1—10-2.1-30    33.01
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.        35.001;
                                  35.005
65 ILCS 5/11-10-1                 35.084
65 ILCS 5/11-10-2                 35.081
65 ILCS 5/11-12-4                 35.035;
                                  157.220
65 ILCS 5/11-12-5                 157.220
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.         57.150
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3                 157.220
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7                 92.007;
                                  92.118
65 ILCS 5/11-20-8                 92.007
65 ILCS 5/11-20-12                92.007
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13                92.007;
                                  132.078
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1                 92.040
                                  92.004;
                                  150.03;
                                  150.06;
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq.         150.07;
                                  150.10;
                                  150.12;
                                  150.13;
                                  150.99
65 ILCS 5/11-40-1                 72.01
65 ILCS 5/11-48.2-2               158.02;
                                  158.03
65 ILCS 5/11-48.2-3               158.02
65 ILCS 5/11-73.1-4               35.130
65 ILCS 5/11-141-1                10.05
70 ILCS 1205/3-9                  70.01
205 ILCS 5/1 et seq.              36.030
205 ILCS 5/5g                     138.01;
                                  138.02
205 ILCS 205/7008                 138.01;
                                  138.02
205 ILCS 305/42.7                 138.01;
                                  138.02
205 ILCS 511/1-1 et seq.          132.064
210 ILCS 45/1-101 et seq.         134.01
215 ILCS 5/367                    Ch. 37, App. A
220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.          44.196
                                  44.196;
                                  56.04;
                                  157.075;
                                  157.076;
                                  157.077;
220 ILCS 5/3-105                  157.078;
                                  157.079;
                                  157.080;
                                  157.081;
                                  157.082;
                                  157.083 
220 ILCS 5/16-102                 56.04
220 ILCS 5/16-108.5(I)            56.04
220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.         55.05
220 ILCS 5/21-201(v)              55.02
220 ILCS 5/21-301(c)              116.02;
                                  116.03
220 ILCS 5/21-401                 55.02;
                                  116.01
220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6)           116.02
220 ILCS 5/21-801                 116.01
220 ILCS 5/21-801(b)              116.01
220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi)       116.01
220 ILCS 5/21-801(d)              116.01
220 ILCS 5/22-501                 116.20
220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.         116.20;
                                  116.21
220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(1)           116.22
220 ILCS 5/22-501(s)              116.23
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.             55.16
220 ILCS 65/4                     55.05
225 ILCS 57/1                     157.003
225 ILCS 115 et seq.              90.107
225 ILCS 225/1                    52.16
225 ILCS 227/1 et seq.            91.30
225 ILCS 317                      91.52
225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.            57.002
225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.            57.002
225 ILCS 460/1                    132.064
225 ILCS 447                      137.02
225 ILCS 447/5-5 et seq.          137.02
225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq.         76.10
225 ILCS 470/1                    75.13
225 ILCS 605 et seq.              90.108
230 ILCS 10                       138.02;
                                  138.03
230 ILCS 15                       138.02
                                  113.01;
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.          113.02;
                                  113.09
230 ILCS 20                       138.02
230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.             138.04
230 ILCS 25                       138.02
230 ILCS 25/1                     138.04
230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.             138.04
230 ILCS 25/1.3(6)                138.04
230 ILCS 25/1.3(7)                138.04
230 ILCS 25/1.3(8)                138.04
230 ILCS 25/2                     138.04
230 ILCS 25/3                     138.04
230 ILCS 25/5                     138.04
230 ILCS 30                       138.02
230 ILCS 40                       138.02;
                                  138.03
230 ILCS 40/1                     138.01
                                  43.01;
                                  112.001;
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.             112.054;
                                  138.01;
                                  157.097
230 ILCS 40/5                     157.097
230 ILCS 45                       138.02;
                                  138.03
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.            93.05;
                                  112.053
235 ILCS 5/1-3.05                 93.02
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17.1               112.067
235 ILCS 5/6-2                    112.052
235 ILCS 5/6-6.5                  72.17
235 ILCS 5/6-11                   112.052
235 ILCS 5/6-12                   112.052
235 ILCS 5/6-16                   92.136
235 ILCS 5/6-18                   112.054
235 ILCS 5/6-20                   92.136
235 ILCS 5/6-22.5                 112.001
235 ILCS 5/6-25                   112.052
235 ILCS 5/6-27.1                 112.067
235 ILCS 5/6-28.5                 112.010;
                                  112.053
235 ILCS 5/6-29                   112.054
235 ILCS 5/6-29.1                 112.054
235 ILCS 5/6-33                   72.17
320 ILCS 15/1 et seq.             134.01
325 ILCS 5/1 et seq.              130.16;
                                  133.99
325 ILCS 5/4                      134.01
405 ILCS 25/1                     154.04
410 ILCS 54/1                     131.05
410 ILCS 70/1 et seq.             130.16
410 ILCS 70/1a                    130.17
                                  Ch. 37, App. A;
410 ILCS 82/1                     39.015;
                                  136.07
                                  93.05;
410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.             118.04;
                                  136.07;
                                  136.09
                                  Ch. 37, App. A;
                                  44.128;
                                  118.01;
                                  136.01;
                                  136.02;
                                  136.03;
                                  136.04;
410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.            136.05;
                                  136.09;
                                  136.10;
                                  136.11;
                                  157.098;
                                  157.100;
                                  157.103;
                                  157.104;
                                  157.108
410 ILCS 625/1 et seq.            121.01
410 ILCS 625/4                    121.01
                                  157.098;
410 ILCS 705/1-1                  157.100;
                                  157.103;
                                  157.104
410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.          Ch. 78, App. A;
                                  157.108
415 ILCS 4/44                     130.16
415 ILCS 5/                       157.105
                                  54.001;
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq               58.006;
                                  152.01
415 ILCS 5/3.200                  91.35
415 ILCS 5/3.215                  71.108
415 ILCS 5/3.220                  32.035;
                                  71.108
415 ILCS 5/3.270                  91.35
415 ILCS 5/3.300                  91.35
                                  71.108;
415 ILCS 5/3.360                  136.25;
                                  136.26
415 ILCS 5/3.535                  91.35
415 ILCS 5/22.2(h)(2)             32.035
415 ILCS 5/39.2(a)                152.08
415 ILCS 5/39.2(e)                152.05
415 ILCS 5/39.2(k)                152.05
415 ILCS 10/1 et seq.             152.07
415 ILCS 15/1 et seq.             152.07
415 ILCS 105/3                    71.108
415 ILCS 105/3(a)                 136.25
415 ILCS 105/4                    136.26
415 ILCS 105/5                    136.27
415 ILCS 105/6                    136.29
415 ILCS 105/7                    136.31
415 ILCS 105/8(b)                 136.32
415 ILCS 105/9                    136.28
415 ILCS 105/10                   136.30
425 ILCS 35/0.01 et seq.          91.30
425 ILCS 35/2.2                   91.30
430 ILCS 30/3                     71.066
430 ILCS 65/0.01 et seq.          137.03
430 ILCS 65/1—16-3              Ch. 137
430 ILCS 65/1 et seq.             137.03
430 ILCS 65/2                     137.03
430 ILCS 65/3                     137.03
430 ILCS 65/3.1                   137.03
430 ILCS 66/1 et seq.             137.03
430 ILCS 70/4                     134.16
430 ILCS 70/5                     134.15
430 ILCS 70/6                     134.17
430 ILCS 115                      157.003
505 ILCS 100/1 et seq.            150.10
515 ILCS 5                        137.05
515 ILCS 5/1.1 et seq.            137.07
520 ILCS 5                        137.05
520 ILCS 5/1.1 et seq.            137.07
520 ILCS 10/11                    57.158
525 ILCS 10/1 et seq.             150.10
525 ILCS 30/3.11                  132.048
525 ILCS 30/3.14                  132.048
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.          55.02
605 ILCS 120/1 et seq.            70.25
615 ILCS 5/18g                    57.001
625 ILCS 5/                       Ch. 75, App. A
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.          41.03;
                                  136.25
625 ILCS 5/1-102                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-102.1                70.01;
                                  74.092
625 ILCS 5/1-103                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-104.2                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-105                  70.01;
                                  74.092
625 ILCS 5/1-106                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-107                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-108                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-109.01               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-110                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-111.1a               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-111.8                70.01;
                                  71.113
625 ILCS 5/1-111.9                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-112                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-113                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-115                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-116                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-117                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-117.7                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-118                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-118.1                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-119                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120.7                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-121                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-122                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-122.1                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-122.5                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-123                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-125                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-126                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-128                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-129                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-130                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-131                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-132                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-133                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-133.1                72.01
625 ILCS 5/1-134                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-134.1                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-135                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-136                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-137                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-138                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-139                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-139.1                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.10               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.15               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-141                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-142                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-145                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-145.01               72.17
625 ILCS 5/1-145.001              70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-146                  44.060;
                                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-147                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.2                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5             70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3b               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.6                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-149                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-150                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-153                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-154                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-155                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-156                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157.5                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-158                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-159                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-159.1                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-160                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-161                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.3                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.5                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-163                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166.1                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167.5                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-168                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-169                  70.01;
                                  93.06
625 ILCS 5/1-171                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.6                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.8                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-172                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-173                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-174                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-176                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-177                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-178                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-179                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-180                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-181                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-182                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-183                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-185                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-186                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187.1                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188                  10.05;
                                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-189                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-190                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-191                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-192                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-193                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-194                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-195                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-196                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-197                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-198                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-199                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-200                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-201                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-202                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-203                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-204                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-204.05               74.088
625 ILCS 5/1-205                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-205.1                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-206                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-207                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-208                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-209                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-210                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-210.01               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-211                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-211.01               70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-212                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-212.5                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-213.8                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-214                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-214.8                70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-215                  70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-216                  70.01
                                  70.01;
625 ILCS 5/1-217                  73.08;
                                  132.048
625 ILCS 5/1-218.10               74.090
625 ILCS 5/3-100 et seq.          74.089
625 ILCS 5/3-101(d)               70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-401.5                70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-412(k)               74.072
625 ILCS 5/3-414(a)               70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-607                  74.091
625 ILCS 5/3-609                  73.06;
                                  73.07
625 ILCS 5/3-609(a)               73.07
625 ILCS 5/3-616                  73.06;
                                  73.07
625 ILCS 5/3-804                  74.092
625 ILCS 5/3-804.01               70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-815                  73.08
625 ILCS 5/4-103                  132.015
625 ILCS 5/4-103.1                132.015
625 ILCS 5/4-103.2                132.015
625 ILCS 5/4-103.3                132.015
625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.          78.06
625 ILCS 5/4-203                  72.36
625 ILCS 5/4-213(b)               72.36
625 ILCS 5/4-214                  78.99
625 ILCS 5/6                      93.06
625 ILCS 5/6-101                  Ch. 78, App. A
625 ILCS 5/6-104                  72.17
625 ILCS 5/6-107                  74.087
625 ILCS 5/6-204                  41.03;
                                  72.36
625 ILCS 5/6-205                  72.99
625 ILCS 5/6-205(a), paragraph 13 72.17
625 ILCS 5/6-206                  72.17
625 ILCS 5/6-303                  Ch. 78, App. A
625 ILCS 5/6-304.1                72.20
                                  71.065;
625 ILCS 5/6-500                  71.066;
                                  71.069
625 ILCS 5/6-700 et seq.          70.01
625 ILCS 5/7-601                  72.39
625 ILCS 5/11                     72.15;
                                  93.06
625 ILCS 5/11-100                 70.01
625 ILCS 5/11-201                 70.02
625 ILCS 5/11-203                 70.05;
                                  70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-204                 43.04;
                                  70.06
625 ILCS 5/11-204.1               43.04
625 ILCS 5/11-205                 70.03
625 ILCS 5/11-206                 70.04
625 ILCS 5/11-208.7               78.38
625 ILCS 5/11-208.7(b)            Ch. 78, App. A
625 ILCS 5/11-209(a)              73.07
                                  70.01;
                                  73.06;
625 ILCS 5/11-301                 73.07;
                                  73.99;
                                  74.019;
                                  74.111
625 ILCS 5/11-302                 71.067
625 ILCS 5/11-305                 70.20;
                                  70.99
625 ILCS 5/11-306                 70.21
625 ILCS 5/11-307                 70.22
625 ILCS 5/11-308                 70.23
625 ILCS 5/11-309                 70.24
625 ILCS 5/11-310                 70.25
625 ILCS 5/11-311                 70.26
625 ILCS 5/11-312                 70.27
625 ILCS 5/11-313                 70.28
625 ILCS 5/11-401                 130.15
625 ILCS 5/11-401(a)—(b-1)      72.35
625 ILCS 5/11-401(e)              72.35
625 ILCS 5/11-402                 72.36
625 ILCS 5/11-402(a)              72.99
                                  72.37;
625 ILCS 5/11-403                 72.99;
                                  130.15
625 ILCS 5/11-404                 72.38;
                                  72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-407                 72.38;
                                  72.39
625 ILCS 5/11-409                 72.40;
                                  72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-501                 Ch. 78, App. A
625 ILCS 5/11-501(d)(1)(F)        130.15
625 ILCS 5/11-501.1               72.16;
                                  72.35
625 ILCS 5/11-502                 72.17
625 ILCS 5/11-503                 72.99;
                                  Ch. 78, App. A
625 ILCS 5/11-503(a)              72.18
625 ILCS 5/11-506                 72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-601                 72.01
625 ILCS 5/11-601(a)—(c)        72.01
625 ILCS 5/11-604                 72.01
625 ILCS 5/11-605                 72.01;
                                  76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-605(a)              72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-605(c)              72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-605(e)              72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-605(e-5)            72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(a)—(c)      72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(d)            72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(d-5)          72.99
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(e-5)          72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-605.1(g)            72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-606                 72.04
625 ILCS 5/11-606(a)              72.04
625 ILCS 5/11-611                 72.03
625 ILCS 5/11-701                 71.001
625 ILCS 5/11-702                 71.002
625 ILCS 5/11-703(a)—(e)        71.003
625 ILCS 5/11-703(f)              71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-704                 71.006
625 ILCS 5/11-705                 71.004
625 ILCS 5/11-706                 71.003;
                                  71.005
625 ILCS 5/11-707                 71.003;
                                  71.008
625 ILCS 5/11-708                 71.009
625 ILCS 5/11-709                 71.010
625 ILCS 5/11-710                 71.007
625 ILCS 5/11-711                 71.110
625 ILCS 5/11-801                 71.025
625 ILCS 5/11-802                 71.026
625 ILCS 5/11-803                 71.027
625 ILCS 5/11-804                 71.028;
                                  74.022
625 ILCS 5/11-805                 71.029
625 ILCS 5/11-806                 71.030
625 ILCS 5/11-901                 71.046
625 ILCS 5/11-902                 71.047
625 ILCS 5/11-903                 71.048
625 ILCS 5/11-904                 71.049
625 ILCS 5/11-905                 71.050
625 ILCS 5/11-906                 71.051
                                  71.001;
625 ILCS 5/11-907                 71.010;
                                  71.052
625 ILCS 5/11-907(a)(1)           71.052
625 ILCS 5/11-907(b)              71.052
625 ILCS 5/11-907.5               71.001;
                                  71.010
625 ILCS 5/11-908                 71.001;
                                  71.010
625 ILCS 5/11-1001                76.01
625 ILCS 5/11-1001 et seq.        76.08
625 ILCS 5/11-1002                76.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1002.5              76.03;
                                  76.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1003                76.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1003.1              76.12
625 ILCS 5/11-1004                76.07
625 ILCS 5/11-1004.1              76.13
625 ILCS 5/11-1005                76.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1005.1              76.14
625 ILCS 5/11-1006(a)—(d)       76.10
625 ILCS 5/11-1006(e)             76.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1007                76.08
625 ILCS 5/11-1008                76.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1009                76.09
625 ILCS 5/11-1010                76.11
625 ILCS 5/11-1011                76.02;
                                  76.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1201(a)—(d-1)     71.065
625 ILCS 5/11-1201(e)             71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1202                71.066
625 ILCS 5/11-1203(a)             Ch. 75, App. A
625 ILCS 5/11-1204                71.067
625 ILCS 5/11-1205                71.068
625 ILCS 5/11-1301                73.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1              73.06;
                                  73.07
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2              73.06;
                                  73.07
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2(c-5)         73.07
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a)—(a-2)   73.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b)           73.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d)           73.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(e)           73.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(g)           73.06
625 ILCS 5/11-1302                73.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1304                73.01;
                                  73.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1305                73.10
625 ILCS 5/11-1401                73.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1402                71.100
625 ILCS 5/11-1403                77.32
625 ILCS 5/11-1403.1              77.31
625 ILCS 5/11-1403.2              77.35
625 ILCS 5/11-1403.3              74.091
625 ILCS 5/11-1404                77.33
625 ILCS 5/11-1405                77.34
625 ILCS 5/11-1406                71.101
625 ILCS 5/11-1407                71.102
625 ILCS 5/11-1410                71.104
625 ILCS 5/11-1411                71.105
625 ILCS 5/11-1412                71.106
625 ILCS 5/11-1412.1              71.107
625 ILCS 5/11-1412.2              71.107
625 ILCS 5/11-1413                71.108
625 ILCS 5/11-1414                71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1414(a)—(e)       71.070;
                                  71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1416                71.109
625 ILCS 5/11-1418                71.087
625 ILCS 5/11-1420                71.053
625 ILCS 5/11-1421                71.088
625 ILCS 5/11-1423                71.085
625 ILCS 5/11-1424                71.086
625 ILCS 5/11-1425(a)—(b-5)     71.069
625 ILCS 5/11-1425(d)             71.999
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e)           74.111
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e)—(g)     71.089
625 ILCS 5/11-1501—11-1507      Ch. 77
625 ILCS 5/11-1507.1              77.30
625 ILCS 5/12                     74.001;
                                  93.06
625 ILCS 5/12-101                 74.001
625 ILCS 5/12-201                 74.015;
                                  74.028
625 ILCS 5/12-202                 74.016
625 ILCS 5/12-203                 74.017
625 ILCS 5/12-204                 74.024
625 ILCS 5/12-205                 74.018
625 ILCS 5/12-205.1               74.019
625 ILCS 5/12-207                 74.020
                                  71.028;
625 ILCS 5/12-208                 71.029;
                                  74.022;
                                  74.025
625 ILCS 5/12-209                 74.026
625 ILCS 5/12-210                 74.023
625 ILCS 5/12-211                 74.027
625 ILCS 5/12-212                 74.022
625 ILCS 5/12-214                 74.021
                                  74.022;
625 ILCS 5/12-215                 74.028;
                                  74.999
625 ILCS 5/12-215(b)(12)          73.03
625 ILCS 5/12-216                 74.029
625 ILCS 5/12-301                 74.040
625 ILCS 5/12-302                 74.041
625 ILCS 5/12-401                 74.055
625 ILCS 5/12-402                 74.056
625 ILCS 5/12-403                 74.057
625 ILCS 5/12-404                 74.058
625 ILCS 5/12-405                 74.059
625 ILCS 5/12-501                 74.070
625 ILCS 5/12-502                 74.071
625 ILCS 5/12-503                 74.070;
                                  74.072
625 ILCS 5/12-601                 74.085;
                                  76.09
625 ILCS 5/12-602                 74.086
625 ILCS 5/12-603                 74.087
625 ILCS 5/12-603.1               74.087
625 ILCS 5/12-604.1               74.090
625 ILCS 5/12-607                 74.088
625 ILCS 5/12-608                 74.089
625 ILCS 5/12-609                 74.092
625 ILCS 5/12-610                 74.091
625 ILCS 5/12-701                 74.105
625 ILCS 5/12-702                 74.106
625 ILCS 5/12-703                 74.107
625 ILCS 5/12-706                 74.108
625 ILCS 5/12-707                 74.109
625 ILCS 5/12-707.1               74.109
625 ILCS 5/12-708                 74.110
625 ILCS 5/12-709                 74.111
625 ILCS 5/12-710                 74.112
                                  70.01;
625 ILCS 5/12-801                 71.066;
                                  74.125;
                                  74.130
625 ILCS 5/12-802                 74.126
625 ILCS 5/12-802(a)              70.01
                                  70.01;
625 ILCS 5/12-803                 71.066;
                                  71.070;
                                  74.127
625 ILCS 5/12-804                 74.128
                                  70.01;
                                  71.066;
625 ILCS 5/12-805                 71.070;
                                  74.028;
                                  74.129
625 ILCS 5/12-806                 74.130
625 ILCS 5/12-807                 74.131
625 ILCS 5/12-808                 74.132
625 ILCS 5/12-809                 74.132
625 ILCS 5/12-810                 74.133
625 ILCS 5/12-811                 74.134
625 ILCS 5/12-900                 74.145
625 ILCS 5/12-901                 74.146
625 ILCS 5/12-902                 74.146
625 ILCS 5/15-102                 75.03
625 ILCS 5/15-103                 75.04
625 ILCS 5/15-107                 75.05
625 ILCS 5/15-301                 74.028;
                                  75.08
625 ILCS 5/15-316                 75.08
625 ILCS 5/16-201                 70.99
625 ILCS 5/16-202                 70.99
625 ILCS 5/18-101 et seq.         70.01
625 ILCS 5/18b-100 et seq.        74.059;
                                  74.089
625 ILCS 5/18c-1101 et seq.       70.01
625 ILCS 5/18c-4101 et seq.       70.01
625 ILCS 5/27-24—27-24.10       70.01
625 ILCS 12-603                   74.087
625 ILCS 12-603.1                 74.087
625 ILCS 25/1                     74.087
625 ILCS 40                       70.01
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.          134.45
705 ILCS 405/2-5                  133.99
705 ILCS 405/2-6                  133.99
720 ILCS 5                        36.047
                                  34.27;
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.            130.16;
                                  133.15
720 ILCS 5/2-1                    130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-2                    130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-3                    130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-4                    130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-5                    130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-6                    130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-6.6                  132.064
720 ILCS 5/2-9                    130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-10                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-11                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-11.1                 130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-12                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-13                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-16                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-17                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-18                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-19                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-20                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-22                   130.01
720 ILCS 5/3-3                    130.19
720 ILCS 5/3-4                    130.19
720 ILCS 5/3-5                    130.15;
                                  130.17
720 ILCS 5/3-6                    130.16
720 ILCS 5/3-7                    130.17
720 ILCS 5/3-8                    130.18
720 ILCS 5/4-1                    130.30
720 ILCS 5/4-2                    130.31
720 ILCS 5/4-3                    130.32
720 ILCS 5/4-4                    130.33
720 ILCS 5/4-5                    130.34
720 ILCS 5/4-6                    130.35
720 ILCS 5/4-7                    130.36
720 ILCS 5/4-8                    130.37
720 ILCS 5/4-9                    130.38
720 ILCS 5/5-1                    130.50
720 ILCS 5/5-2                    130.51
720 ILCS 5/5-3                    130.52
720 ILCS 5/5-3—5-5              130.51
720 ILCS 5/6-l—6-4              130.33
720 ILCS 5/8-1                    130.65
720 ILCS 5/8-1 et seq.            92.136
720 ILCS 5/8-2                    130.66
720 ILCS 5/8-4                    130.67
720 ILCS 5/9-1 et seq.            34.27;
                                  92.136
720 ILCS 5/10-1 et seq.           34.27;
                                  92.136
720 ILCS 5/10-9                   131.05;
                                  133.99
                                  130.15;
720 ILCS 5/11-0.1                 133.01;
                                  133.16
                                  34.27;
720 ILCS 5/11-0.1 et seq.         119.21;
                                  119.43
720 ILCS 5/11-14—5/11-14.3      92.136
720 ILCS 5/11-20                  92.136
720 ILCS 5/11-20(a)—(c)         133.30
720 ILCS 5/11-20(e)—(g)         133.30
720 ILCS 5/11-20.1                92.136
720 ILCS 5/11-20.1(a)(1)          130.15
720 ILCS 5/11-20.1(c-5)           130.15
720 ILCS 5/11-21                  92.136
720 ILCS 5/11-21(a)—(d)         133.31
720 ILCS 5/11-21(h)               133.31
720 ILCS 5/11-22                  133.32
720 ILCS 5/12-1                   131.01
720 ILCS 5/12-1 et seq.           34.27;
                                  92.136
720 ILCS 5/12-2                   131.02
720 ILCS 5/12-3                   131.03
720 ILCS 5/12-5                   131.04
720 ILCS 5/12-5.1                 132.077
720 ILCS 5/12C-35                 131.05
720 ILCS 5/15-1                   132.001
720 ILCS 5/15-2                   132.001
720 ILCS 5/15-3                   132.001
720 ILCS 5/15-4                   132.001
720 ILCS 5/15-5                   132.001
720 ILCS 5/15-6                   132.001
720 ILCS 5/15-7                   132.001
720 ILCS 5/15-8                   132.001
720 ILCS 5/15-9                   132.001
720 ILCS 5/16-1                   130.15;
                                  132.015
720 ILCS 5/16-1 et seq.           92.136
720 ILCS 5/16-2                   132.016
720 ILCS 5/16-3                   132.017
720 ILCS 5/16-5                   132.018
720 ILCS 5/16-6                   132.019
720 ILCS 5/16-30                  132.064
720 ILCS 5/16-30(a)               130.15
720 ILCS 5/16-30(b)               130.15
720 ILCS 5/16D-2                  138.01
720 ILCS 5/17-1(A)                132.060
720 ILCS 5/17-1(B)                132.060
720 ILCS 5/17-1(C)(1)             132.061
720 ILCS 5/17-1(C)(2)             132.062
720 ILCS 5/17-1(C)(3)             132.063
720 ILCS 5/17-1(D)                132.060—
                                  132.063
720 ILCS 5/17-1(E)                132.060—
                                  132.063
720 ILCS 5/17-2                   132.064
720 ILCS 5/17-10.6                130.15
720 ILCS 5/17-31—5/17-49        132.015
720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.          138.01
720 ILCS 5/17-51                  138.01
720 ILCS 5/17-56                  130.15
720 ILCS 5/18-1 et seq.           34.27
720 ILCS 5/19-1 et seq.           34.27
720 ILCS 5/20-1 et seq.           34.27
720 ILCS 5/20-2 et seq.           92.136
720 ILCS 5/21-1                   132.045
720 ILCS 5/21-1(a)—(c)          132.045
720 ILCS 5/21-1.01                132.045
720 ILCS 5/21-1.4(a)—(c)        132.002
720 ILCS 5/21-1.4(d)              132.999
720 ILCS 5/21-2                   132.047
720 ILCS 5/21-3(a)—(g)          132.048
720 ILCS 5/21-3(h)                132.999
720 ILCS 5/21-3(i)                132.048
720 ILCS 5/21-3(j)                132.048
720 ILCS 5/21-5                   132.048
720 ILCS 5/21-6                   137.05
720 ILCS 5/21.2-2                 134.31
720 ILCS 5/21.2-3                 134.32
720 ILCS 5/21.2-4                 134.31
720 ILCS 5/21.2-5                 134.30
720 ILCS 5/24(b)                  137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.           92.136
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(1)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(2.5)           137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(3)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(4)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(5)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(6)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(7)             137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(8)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(9)             137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(10)            137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(11)            137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(13)            137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(14)            137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(15)            137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(16)            137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(c)                137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(d)                137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(e)                137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5                 Ch. 78, App. A
720 ILCS 5/24-1.9                 137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-2(a)                137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(b)                137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(d)                137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(f)                137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(g)                137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(g-6)              137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(h)                137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-2(i)                137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-3                   137.03
                                  Ch. 78, App. A;
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1                 137.05;
                                  137.99
720 ILCS 5/24-4                   137.04
720 ILCS 5/24-5                   137.06
720 ILCS 5/24-6                   137.07
720 ILCS 5/24.8-0.1               131.02
720 ILCS 5/25-1                   134.02
720 ILCS 5/25-1 et seq.           92.136
720 ILCS 5/26-1                   92.136;
                                  93.05
720 ILCS 5/26-2                   93.05
720 ILCS 5/26-3                   93.05
720 ILCS 5/26-4                   93.05
720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq.           92.136
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)                138.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(b)                138.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(c)                138.99
720 ILCS 5/28-1(d)                138.02
720 ILCS 5/28-2                   138.01
720 ILCS 5/28-3                   138.03
720 ILCS 5/28-5(a)                138.05
720 ILCS 5/28-5(b)                138.05
720 ILCS 5/29-1                   135.40
720 ILCS 5/29-3                   135.40
720 ILCS 5/29D-15.1               34.27
720 ILCS 5/31-1                   135.01;
                                  135.99
720 ILCS 5/31-1 et seq.           92.136
720 ILCS 5/31-3                   135.05
720 ILCS 5/31-6                   135.03
720 ILCS 5/31-7                   135.04
720 ILCS 5/31-8                   135.02
720 ILCS 5/32-1                   135.20
720 ILCS 5/32-4                   135.21
720 ILCS 5/32-4a                  135.22
720 ILCS 5/32-7                   135.24
720 ILCS 5/32-9(a)                135.25
720 ILCS 5/32-9(b)                135.99
720 ILCS 5/32-10                  135.26
720 ILCS 5/33-1                   135.41
720 ILCS 5/33-2                   135.41
720 ILCS 5/33A-1                  131.02
720 ILCS 5/36-1                   Ch. 78, App. A
720 ILCS 5/37-3                   136.45
720 ILCS 16/                      Ch. 78, App. A
720 ILCS 16A/                     Ch. 78, App. A
720 ILCS 24-1                     Ch. 78, App. A
                                  34.27;
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.            92.136;
                                  136.14;
                                  154.07
720 ILCS 550/3                    136.01;
                                  136.14
720 ILCS 550/3(a)                 93.02
720 ILCS 550/6                    136.09
720 ILCS 550/7                    136.09
720 ILCS 570/100                  Ch. 78, App. A
                                  34.27;
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.          92.136;
                                  136.14;
                                  154.07
720 ILCS 570/102                  136.14
720 ILCS 570/102(f)               93.02
720 ILCS 570/102(mm)              136.13
720 ILCS 570/204                  93.02
720 ILCS 570/206                  93.02
720 ILCS 570/208                  93.02
720 ILCS 570/210                  93.02
720 ILCS 570/212                  93.02
720 ILCS 590/1                    132.076
720 ILCS 590/2                    132.076
720 ILCS 590/3                    132.076
720 ILCS 600/2d                   93.02
720 ILCS 646/10                   136.14
720 ILCS 675/1                    118.01
720 ILCS 675/1 et seq.            136.66
725 ILCS 5/109-1                  135.26
725 ILCS 5/110-10(d)              135.26
725 ILCS 5/112A-1 et seq.         135.26
725 ILCS 5/112A-3(b)(7)           132.048
725 ILCS 5/112A-14(b)(2)          132.048
725 ILCS 5/114-1                  130.17
725 ILCS 5/124B-5 et seq.         133.30
725 ILCS 202/5                    130.17
725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.            137.02
730 ILCS 5/3-14-1.5               137.02
730 ILCS 5/5-4-3                  130.17
730 ILCS 150/1 et seq.            43.04
735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.          41.10
735 ILCS 5/2-202                  132.048
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.          41.24;
                                  120.36
735 ILCS 5/9-101 et seq.          154.05
735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq.         41.24
735 ILCS 5/15-1200.5              132.048
735 ILCS 5/15-1207                44.174
735 ILCS 5/15-1505.8(l)           132.048
740 ILCS 147/10                   131.05
745 ILCS 10/3-109 et seq.         93.05
750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.             134.52
755 ILCS 5/11a-1 et seq.          132.064
765 ILCS 745/1 et seq.            157.082
765 ILCS 750/10                   44.106
775 ILCS 5 et seq.                154.04
775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.          44.106
805 ILCS 5/4.05                   132.064
805 ILCS 210/100 et seq.          132.064
805 ILCS 215/0.01 et seq.         132.064
805 ILCS 405/0.01 et seq.         132.064
810 ILCS 5/1-101                  41.24
810 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.          44.076;
                                  156.25
810 ILCS 5/7-101 et seq.          44.076
815 ILCS 5/3                      138.02
815 ILCS 5/8                      138.02
815 ILCS 535/1                    132.075
815 ILCS 535/2                    132.075
815 ILCS 535/3                    132.075
820 ILCS                          Ch. 37, App. A
820 ILCS 130/.01 et seq.          36.010
820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.         36.047
820 ILCS 147/1                    Ch. 37, App. A
820 ILCS 154/1 et. seq.           Ch. 37, App. A
820 ILCS 185/1 et seq.            36.047
820 ILCS 192/1                    Ch. 37, App. A
820 ILCS 192/1 et seq.            37.170
820 ILCS 305                      117.05
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.            55.08
820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.            42.01
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2026 Code
Prior Code             2026 Code
10.01                  10.01
10.02                  10.02
10.03                  10.03
10.04                  10.04
10.05                  10.05
10.06                  10.06
10.07                  10.07
10.08                  10.08
10.09                  10.09
10.10                  10.10
10.11                  10.11
10.12                  10.12
10.13                  10.13
10.14                  10.14
10.15                  10.15
10.16                  10.16
10.17                  10.17
10.18                  10.18
10.19                  10.19
10.20                  10.20
10.99                  10.99
11.01                  11.01
30.01                  30.01
30.02                  30.02
30.03                  30.03
30.05                  30.04
Ch. 30, App. A         Ch. 30, App. A
Ch. 30, App. B         Ch. 30, App. B
31.01                  31.001
31.02                  31.002
31.03                  31.003
31.04                  31.004
31.05                  31.005
31.10                  31.020
31.11                  31.021
31.12                  31.022
31.13                  31.023
31.14                  31.024
31.15                  31.025
31.16                  31.026
31.17                  31.027
31.25                  31.040
31.26                  31.041
31.27                  31.042
31.28                  31.043
31.29                  31.043
31.35                  31.060
31.36                  31.061
31.37                  31.062
31.45                  31.075
31.46                  31.076
31.47                  31.077
31.48                  31.078
31.49                  31.079
31.50                  31.080
31.51                  31.081
31.52                  31.082
31.60                  31.095
31.61                  31.096
31.62                  31.097
31.63                  31.098
31.64                  31.099
31.65                  31.100
31.75                  31.115
31.76                  31.116
31.77                  31.117
32.01                  32.001
32.02                  32.002
32.03                  32.003
32.04                  32.004
32.05                  32.005
32.15                  32.020
32.25                  32.035
32.26                  32.036
32.27                  32.037
32.28                  32.038
32.29                  32.039
32.30                  32.040
32.31                  32.041;
                       32.999
32.40                  32.055
Ch. 32, App. A         Ch. 32, App. A
33.01                  33.01
33.02                  33.02
33.03                  33.03
33.04                  33.04
33.05                  33.05
33.10                  33.20
33.11                  33.21
33.12                  33.22
33.20                  33.35
33.22                  33.36
33.23                  33.37
33.24                  33.38
33.25                  33.39
33.26                  33.40
33.27                  33.41
33.28                  33.42
33.29                  33.43
33.30                  33.44
34.01                  34.01
34.02                  34.02
34.03                  34.03
34.04                  34.04
34.05                  34.05
34.10                  34.20
34.12                  34.21
34.13                  34.22
34.14                  34.23
34.15                  34.24
34.16                  34.25
34.17                  34.26
34.18                  34.27
34.19                  34.28
34.20                  34.40
34.21                  34.41
34.22                  34.42
34.23                  34.43
34.24                  34.44
35.01                  35.001
35.02                  35.002
35.03                  35.003
35.04                  35.004
35.05                  35.005
35.10                  35.020
35.20                  35.021
35.40                  35.035
35.41                  35.036
35.42                  35.037
35.43                  35.038
35.44                  35.039
35.45                  35.040
35.46                  35.041
35.47                  35.042
35.48                  35.043
35.49                  35.044
35.50                  35.045
35.51                  35.046
35.52                  35.047
35.53                  35.048
35.54                  35.049
35.55                  35.050
35.56                  35.051
35.57                  35.052
35.58                  35.053
35.59                  35.054
35.65                  35.065
35.66                  35.066
35.120                 35.080
35.121                 35.081
35.124                 35.082
35.125                 35.083
35.126                 35.084
35.130                 35.095
35.135                 35.110
35.136                 35.111
35.137                 35.112
35.138                 35.113
35.139                 35.114
35.140                 35.115
35.141                 35.116
35.145                 35.130
35.151                 35.145
35.152                 35.146
35.153                 35.147
35.165                 35.160
35.166                 35.161
35.167                 35.162
35.168                 35.163
35.169                 35.164
35.170                 35.165
35.171                 35.166
35.172                 35.167
35.173                 35.168
35.174                 35.169
35.175                 35.170
35.176                 35.171
35.177                 35.172
35.185                 35.185
35.186                 35.186
35.187                 35.187
35.190                 35.200
35.191                 35.201
35.192                 35.202
35.200                 35.215
35.201                 35.216
35.202                 35.217
35.203                 35.218
36.01                  36.001
36.02                  36.002
36.04                  36.004
36.05                  36.005
36.06                  36.006
36.07                  36.007
36.08                  36.008
36.09                  36.009
36.10                  36.010
36.11                  36.011
36.20                  36.025
36.21                  36.026
36.22                  36.027
36.23                  36.028
36.24                  36.029
36.25                  36.030
36.26                  36.031
36.27                  36.032
36.28                  36.033
36.29                  36.034
36.40                  36.045
36.41                  36.046
36.42                  36.047
36.43                  36.048
36.44                  36.049
36.45                  36.050
36.46                  36.051
36.47                  36.052
36.48                  36.053
36.60                  36.065
36.61                  36.066
36.62                  36.067
36.63                  36.068
36.64                  36.069
36.65                  36.070
36.66                  36.071
37.01                  37.001
37.02                  37.002
37.03                  37.003
37.10                  37.015
37.11                  37.016
37.12                  37.017
37.13                  37.018
37.14                  37.019
37.15                  37.020
37.20                  37.035
37.21                  37.036
37.22                  37.037
37.25                  37.050
37.26                  37.051
37.35                  37.065
37.36                  37.066
37.37                  37.067
37.45                  37.080
37.50                  37.095
37.60                  37.110
37.70                  37.125
37.71                  37.126
37.72                  37.127
37.73                  37.128
37.74                  37.129
37.85                  37.140
37.86                  37.141
37.87                  37.142
37.89                  37.144
37.95                  37.155
37.99                  37.999
Ch. 37, App. A, Exh. A Ch. 37, App. A, Exh. A
Ch. 37, App. A, Exh. B Ch. 37, App. A, Exh. B
38.01                  38.01
38.02                  38.02
38.03                  38.03
38.04                  38.04
38.05                  38.05
38.06                  38.06
38.07                  38.07
38.08                  38.08
38.09                  38.09
38.10                  38.10
38.11                  38.11
38.14                  38.12
40.01                  39.001
40.02                  39.002
40.10                  39.015
40.11                  39.016
40.20                  39.030
40.30                  39.045
40.40                  39.060
40.60                  39.075
40.61                  39.076
40.62                  39.077
41.01                  36.085
42.01                  40.01
42.02                  40.02
42.03                  40.03
Ch. 42, App. A         Ch. 40, App. A
Ch. 42, App. B         Ch. 40, App. B
42A.01                 41.01
42A.02                 41.02
42A.03                 41.03
42A.04                 41.04
42A.05                 41.05
42A.06                 41.06
42A.07                 41.07
42A.08                 41.08
42A.09                 41.09
42A.10                 41.10
42A.11                 41.11
42A.12                 41.12
42A.13                 41.13
42A.14                 41.14
42A.15                 41.15
42A.16                 41.16
42A.17                 41.17
42A.18                 41.18
42A.19                 41.19
42A.20                 41.20
42A.21                 41.21
42A.22                 41.22
42A.23                 41.23
42A.24                 41.24
42A.25                 41.25
Ch. 42A, App. A        Ch. 41, App. A
Ch. 42A, App. B        Ch. 41, App. B
42B.01                 42.01
42B.02                 42.02
42B.03                 42.03
42B.04                 42.04
43.01                  43.01
43.02                  43.02
43.02A                 43.03
43.02B                 43.04
43.03                  43.05
Ch. 43, App. A         Ch. 42, App. A
44.01                  44.001
44.02                  44.002
44.03                  44.003
44.04                  44.004
44.05                  44.005
44.06                  44.006
44.07                  44.007
44.08                  44.008
44.09                  44.009
44.10                  44.010
44.11                  44.011
44.12                  44.012
44.13                  44.013
44.14                  44.014
44.15                  44.015
44.16                  44.016
44.17                  44.017
50.01                  50.015
50.02                  50.016
50.03                  50.017
50.04                  50.018
50.10                  50.030
50.11                  50.031
50.12                  50.032
50.13                  50.033
50.14                  50.034
50.15                  50.035
50.16                  50.036
50.17                  50.037
50.18                  50.038
50.19                  50.039
50.20                  50.040
50.21                  50.041
50.22                  50.042
50.23                  50.043
50.24                  50.044
50.25                  50.045
50.26                  50.046
50.27                  50.047
50.28                  50.048
50.29                  50.049
50.30                  50.050
50.31                  50.051
50.32                  50.052
50.33                  50.053
50.40                  50.065
50.41                  50.066
50.42                  50.067
50.43                  50.068
50.44                  50.069
50.45                  50.070
50.46                  50.071
50.50                  50.085
50.51                  50.086
50.52                  50.087
50.53                  50.088
50.54                  50.089
50.55                  50.090
50.60                  50.001
50.61                  50.002
50.62                  50.003
50.99                  50.999
51.01                  51.01
51.02                  51.02
51.03                  51.03
51.15                  51.15
51.16                  51.16
51.17                  51.17
51.18                  51.18
51.19                  51.19
51.20                  51.20
51.21                  51.21
51.22                  51.22
51.23                  51.23
51.24                  51.24
51.25                  51.25
51.26                  51.26
51.27                  51.27
51.28                  51.28
51.45                  51.40
51.46                  51.41
51.47                  51.42
51.48                  51.43
51.49                  51.44
51.50                  51.45
51.99                  51.99
52.01                  52.01
52.02                  52.02
52.10                  52.15
52.11                  52.16
52.12                  52.17
52.13                  52.18
52.14                  52.19
52.15                  52.20
52.16                  52.21
52.99                  52.99
53.01                  53.01
53.05                  53.15
53.06                  53.16
53.07                  53.17
53.08                  53.18
53.09                  53.19
53.10                  53.20
53.11                  53.21
53.20                  53.35
53.21                  53.36
53.22                  53.37
53.30                  53.50
53.31                  53.51
53.32                  53.52
53.33                  53.53
54.001                 54.001
54.002                 54.002
54.003                 54.003
54.004                 54.004
54.005                 54.005
54.006                 54.006
54.007                 54.007
54.020                 54.020
54.021                 54.021
54.022                 54.022
54.023                 54.023
54.024                 54.024
54.025                 54.025
54.026                 54.026
54.027                 54.027
54.028                 54.028
54.029                 54.029
54.040                 54.045
54.041                 54.046
54.042                 54.047
54.050                 54.060
54.051                 54.061
54.052                 54.062
54.053                 54.063
54.054                 54.064
54.055                 54.065
54.056                 54.066
54.065                 54.080
54.066                 54.081
54.067                 54.082
54.068                 54.083
54.069                 54.084
54.070                 54.085
54.071                 54.086
54.072                 54.087
54.080                 54.100
54.081                 54.101
54.082                 54.102
54.083                 54.103
54.084                 54.104
54.085                 54.105
54.086                 54.106
54.087                 54.107
54.088                 54.108
54.089                 54.109
54.090                 54.110
54.091                 54.111
54.100                 54.125
54.101                 54.126
54.110                 54.140
54.120                 54.155
54.130                 54.170
54.131                 54.171
54.132                 54.172
54.133                 54.173
54.134                 54.174
54.135                 54.175
54.136                 54.176
54.145                 54.190
54.146                 54.191
54.147                 54.192
54.148                 54.193
54.160                 54.205
54.161                 54.206
54.162                 54.207
54.163                 54.208
54.164                 54.209
54.170                 54.220
54.171                 54.221
54.180                 54.235
54.181                 54.236
Ch. 54, App. A         Ch. 54, App. A
55.01                  55.01
55.02                  55.02
55.03                  55.03
55.04                  55.04
55.05                  55.05
55.06                  55.06
55.07                  55.07
55.08                  55.08
55.09                  55.09
55.10                  55.10
55.11                  55.11
55.12                  55.12
55.13                  55.13
55.14                  55.14
55.15                  55.15
55.16                  55.16
55.17                  55.17
55.18                  55.18
55.19                  55.19
55.20                  55.20
55.21                  55.21
55.22                  55.22
55.99                  55.99
56.01                  56.01
56.02                  56.02
56.03                  56.03
56.04                  56.04
56.05                  56.05
56.06                  56.06
56.07                  56.07
56.08                  56.08
56.09                  56.09
56.10                  56.10
56.11                  56.11
56.12                  56.12
70.01                  70.01
70.02                  70.02
70.03                  70.03
70.06                  70.06
70.07                  70.07
70.16                  70.26;
                       70.99
70.17                  70.27;
                       70.99
70.98                  70.99
70.99                  70.99
72.15                  71.025
72.24                  71.045
72.45                  71.085
72.46                  71.086
72.47                  71.087
72.48                  71.088
72.58                  71.103
72.67                  71.111
72.68                  71.112
73.04                  72.04
73.10                  72.15
73.11                  72.16;
                       73.99
73.12                  72.17
73.16                  72.20;
                       72.99
74.02                  73.02
74.06                  73.06;
                       73.99
74.07                  73.07
74.075                 73.08
74.0756                73.09
74.09                  73.11
74.10                  73.12
74.11                  73.13
74.12                  73.14
74.13                  73.15
74.99                  73.99
75.05                  74.015
75.06                  74.016
75.07                  74.017
75.08                  74.018
75.09                  74.019
75.10                  74.020
75.11                  74.021
75.12                  74.022
75.14                  74.024
75.15                  74.025
75.16                  74.026
75.17                  74.027
75.19                  74.029
75.25                  74.040
75.26                  74.041
75.30                  74.055
75.31                  74.056
75.32                  74.057
75.33                  74.058
75.34                  74.059
75.40                  74.070
75.41                  74.071
75.42                  74.072
75.45                  74.085
75.46                  74.086
75.47                  74.087
75.48                  74.088
75.49                  74.089
75.51                  74.090;
                       74.999
75.52                  74.091
75.53                  74.092;
                       74.999
75.54                  74.093;
                       74.999
75.60                  74.105
75.61                  74.106
75.62                  74.107
75.66                  74.108
75.67                  74.109
75.68                  74.110
75.69                  74.111
75.70                  74.112
75.76                  74.125
75.77                  74.126
75.78                  74.127
75.79                  74.128
75.80                  74.129
75.81                  74.130
75.82                  74.131
75.83                  74.132
75.84                  74.133
75.85                  74.134
75.90                  74.145
75.91                  74.146
76.01                  75.01
76.02                  75.02
76.03                  75.03
76.04                  75.04
76.05                  75.05
76.06                  75.06
76.07                  75.07
76.08                  75.08
76.09                  75.09
76.10                  75.10
76.11                  75.11
76.12                  75.12
76.13                  75.13
76.14                  75.14;
                       75.99
76.15                  75.15
76.16                  75.16
76.99                  75.99
Ch. 76, App. A         Ch. 75, App. A
Ch. 76, App. B         Ch. 75, App. B
Ch. 76, App. C         Ch. 75, App. C
78.01                  77.01
78.02                  77.02
78.03                  77.03
78.04                  77.04
78.05                  77.05
78.06                  77.06
78.07                  77.07
78.08                  77.08
78.09                  77.09
78.10                  77.10
78.11                  77.11
78.12                  77.12
78.13                  77.13
78.14                  77.14
78.15                  77.15
78.16                  77.16
78.26                  77.31
78.28                  77.33
78.99                  77.99
Ch. 80, Schd. I        Ch. 79, Schd. I
Ch. 80, Schd. II       Ch. 79, Schd. II
Ch. 80, Schd. III      Ch. 79, Schd. III
Ch. 80, Schd. IIIA     Ch. 79, Schd. IV
Ch. 80, Schd. IV       Ch. 79, Schd. V
Ch. 80, Schd. V        Ch. 79, Schd. VI
Ch. 80, Schd. VII      Ch. 79, Schd. VII
Ch. 80, Schd. VIII     Ch. 79, Schd. VIII
Ch. 80, Schd. IX       Ch. 79, Schd. IX
Ch. 80, Schd. X        Ch. 79, Schd. X
Ch. 80, Schd. XI       Ch. 79, Schd. XI
81.01                  78.01
81.02                  78.02
81.03                  78.03
81.04                  78.04
81.05                  78.05
81.06                  78.06
81.07                  78.07
81.08                  78.08
81.09                  78.09
81.10                  78.10
81.11                  78.11
81.12                  78.12
81.13                  78.13
81.14                  78.14
81.15                  78.15
81.20                  78.30
81.21                  78.31
81.22                  78.32
81.23                  78.33
81.231                 78.34
81.24                  78.35
81.241                 78.36
81.25                  78.37
81.251                 78.38
81.26                  78.39
81.27                  78.40
81.99                  78.99
Ch. 81, App. A         Ch. 78, App. A
90.01                  90.001
90.02                  90.002
90.021                 90.003
90.03                  90.004
90.04                  90.005
90.05                  90.006
90.06                  90.007
90.07                  90.008
90.15                  90.020
90.151                 90.021
90.16                  90.022
90.17                  90.023
90.18                  90.024
90.19                  90.025
90.25                  90.040
90.26                  90.041
90.261                 90.042
90.07                  90.043
90.271                 90.044
90.28                  90.045
90.281                 90.046
90.29                  90.047
90.290                 90.048
90.291                 90.049
90.292                 90.050
90.293                 90.051
90.294                 90.052
90.295                 90.053
90.296                 90.054
90.297                 90.055
90.298                 90.056
90.30                  90.057
90.31                  90.058
90.32                  90.059
90.40                  90.070
90.41                  90.071
90.42                  90.072
90.50                  90.085
90.51                  90.086
90.52                  90.087
90.53                  90.088
90.54                  90.089
90.55                  90.090
90.60                  90.105
90.61                  90.106
90.62                  90.107
90.63                  90.108
90.64                  90.109
90.99                  90.999
91.00                  91.00
91.01                  91.01
91.02                  91.02
91.03                  91.03
91.04                  91.04
91.05                  91.05
91.06                  91.06
91.07                  91.07
91.08                  91.08
91.15                  91.15
91.16                  91.16
91.17                  91.17
91.18                  91.18
91.19                  91.19
91.20                  91.20
91.21                  91.21
91.22                  91.22
91.23                  91.23
91.24                  91.24
91.25                  91.25
91.26                  91.26
91.27                  91.27
91.30                  91.30
91.35                  91.35
91.36                  91.36
91.45                  91.45
91.46                  91.46
91.47                  91.47
91.48                  91.48
91.49                  91.49
91.50                  91.50
91.51                  91.51
91.52                  91.52
91.53                  91.53
91.54                  91.54
91.55                  91.55
91.56                  91.56
91.57                  91.57
91.58                  91.58
91.59                  91.59
91.60                  91.60
91.61                  91.61
91.62                  91.62
91.63                  91.68
91.64                  91.69
91.70                  91.70
91.71                  91.71
91.72                  91.72
91.73                  91.73
91.74                  91.74
91.75                  91.75
91.99                  91.99
Ch. 91, App. A         Ch. 91, App. A
92.01                  58.001
92.02                  58.002
92.03                  58.003
92.04                  58.004
92.05                  58.005
92.06                  58.006
92.07                  58.007
92.08                  58.008
92.09                  58.009
92.10                  58.010
92.20                  58.025
92.21                  58.026
92.22                  58.027
92.23                  58.028
92.24                  58.029
92.25                  58.030
92.26                  58.031
92.27                  58.032
92.30                  58.045
92.99                  58.999
93.01                  92.001
93.010                 92.002
93.011                 92.003
93.015                 92.004
93.02                  92.005
93.03                  92.006
93.04                  92.007
93.10                  92.020
93.11                  92.021
93.12                  92.022
93.13                  92.023
93.20                  92.035
93.21                  92.036
93.22                  92.037
93.23                  92.038
93.24                  92.039
93.25                  92.040
93.26                  92.041
93.30                  92.055
93.31                  92.056
93.32                  92.057
93.33                  92.058
93.40                  92.070
93.45                  92.085
93.50                  92.100
93.60                  92.115
93.61                  92.116
93.62                  92.117
93.63                  92.118
93.64                  92.119
93.65                  92.120
93.66                  92.121
93.70                  92.135
93.71                  92.136
93.72                  92.137
93.73                  92.138
93.74                  92.139
93.75                  92.140
93.99                  92.999
94.01                  93.01
94.02                  93.02
94.03                  93.03
94.04                  93.04
94.05                  93.05
94.06                  93.06
94.07                  93.07
94.08                  93.08
95.01                  94.01
95.03                  94.02
95.15                  94.15
95.16                  94.16
95.17                  94.17
95.18                  94.18
95.19                  94.19
95.20                  94.20
95.21                  94.21
95.30                  94.35
95.31                  94.36
95.32                  94.37
95.33                  94.38
95.99                  94.99
96.01                  95.01
96.02                  95.02
96.03                  95.03
96.04                  95.04
96.05                  95.05
96.06                  95.06
96.07                  95.07
96.08                  95.08
96.09                  95.09
96.10                  95.10
96.11                  95.11
96.12                  95.12
96.13                  95.13
96.99                  95.99
110A.01                120.30
110A.02                120.31
110A.03                120.32
110A.04                120.33
110A.05                120.34
110A.06                120.35
110A.07                120.36
110A.08                120.37
110A.09                120.38
110A.99                120.99
111.01                 111.01
111.02                 111.02
111.03                 111.03
111.04                 111.04
111.05                 111.05
111.06                 111.06
111.07                 111.07
111.08                 111.08
111.09                 111.09
111.10                 111.10
111.11                 111.11
111.12                 111.12
111.13                 111.13
111.14                 111.14
111.15                 111.15
111.99                 111.99
112.01                 112.001
112.02                 112.002
112.03                 112.003
112.04                 112.004
112.06                 112.005
112.07                 112.006
112.08                 112.007
112.09                 112.008
112.10                 112.009
112.11                 112.010
112.15                 112.025
112.16                 112.026
112.17                 112.027
112.18                 112.028
112.19                 112.029
112.20                 112.030
112.21                 112.031
112.22                 112.032
112.23                 112.033
112.24                 112.034
112.25                 112.035
112.30                 112.050
112.31                 112.051
112.32                 112.052
112.33                 112.053
112.33A                112.054
112.34                 112.055
112.35                 112.056
112.36                 112.057
112.37                 112.058
112.38                 112.059
112.39                 112.060
112.40                 112.061
112.41                 112.062
112.42                 112.063
112.43                 112.064
112.44                 112.065
112.45                 112.066
112.46                 112.067
112.50                 112.080
112.51                 112.081
112.52                 112.082
112.53                 112.083
112.54                 112.084
112.55                 112.085
112.99                 112.999
112A.01                113.01
112A.02                113.02
112A.03                113.03
112A.04                113.04
112A.05                113.05
112A.06                113.06
112A.07                113.07
112A.08                113.08
112A.09                113.09
112A.10                113.10
112A.11                113.11
112A.99                113.99
113.01                 110.01
113.02                 110.02
113.03                 110.03
113.04                 110.04
113.05                 110.05
113.06                 110.06
113.07                 110.07
113.08                 110.08
113.09                 110.09
113.10                 110.10
113.11                 110.11
113.12                 110.12
113.13                 110.13
113.14                 110.14
113.15                 110.15
113.99                 110.99
115.01                 114.01
115.02                 114.02
115.03                 114.03
115.04                 114.04
115.06                 114.05
115.07                 114.06
115.08                 114.07
115.09                 114.08
115.10                 114.09
115.99                 114.99
117.01                 115.01
117.02                 115.02
117.03                 115.03
117.04                 115.04
117.05                 115.05
117.06                 115.06
117.07                 115.07
117.99                 115.99
118.01                 90.120
118.02                 90.121
118.03                 90.122
118.99                 90.999
119.01                 120.01
119.02                 120.02
119.04                 120.03
119.99                 120.99
121.01                 121.35
121.02                 121.36
121.03                 121.37
121.05                 121.38
121.06                 121.39
121.15                 121.50
121.16                 121.51
121.17                 121.52
121.18                 121.53
121.19                 121.54
121.20                 121.55
121.21                 121.56
121.22                 121.57
121.23                 121.58
121.24                 121.59
121.25                 121.60
121.26                 121.61
121.27                 121.62
121.99                 121.99
121A.01                121.01
122.01                 44.030
122.02                 44.031
122.10                 44.045
122.11                 44.046
122.20                 44.060
122.21                 44.061
122.30                 44.090
122.31                 44.091
122.32                 44.092
122.33                 44.093
122.34                 44.094
122.40                 44.105
122.41                 44.106
122.42                 44.107
122.43                 44.108
122.44                 44.109
122.45                 44.110
122.50                 44.125
122.51                 44.126
122.52                 44.127
122.53                 44.128
122.60                 44.140
122.65                 44.155
122.66                 44.156
122.67                 44.157
122.68                 44.158;
                       44.999
122.70                 44.170
122.71                 44.171
122.72                 44.172
122.73                 44.173
122.74                 44.174
122.75                 44.175
122.76                 44.176
122.77                 44.177
122.78                 44.178
122.79                 44.179
122.80                 44.180
122.81                 44.181
122.90                 44.195
122.91                 44.196
122.92                 44.197
122.93                 44.198
122.94                 44.199
122.95                 44.200
122.99                 44.999
122A.01                116.01
122A.02                116.02
122A.03                116.03
122A.04                116.04
122A.05                116.05
122A.06                116.06
122A.07                116.07
122B.01                116.20
122B.02                116.21
122B.03                116.22
122B.04                116.23
124.01                 117.01
124.02                 117.02
124.03                 117.03
124.04                 117.04
124.05                 117.05
124.06                 117.06
124.07                 117.07
124.08                 117.08
124.09                 117.09
124.99                 117.99
125.01                 120.15
125.02                 120.16
125.03                 120.17
125.04                 120.18
125.05                 120.19
125.99                 120.99
126.01                 121.15
126.02                 121.16
126.03                 121.17
126.04                 121.18
126.05                 121.19
126.06                 121.20
128.01                 119.01
128.02                 119.02
128.03                 119.03
128.04                 119.04
128.05                 119.05
128.10                 119.20
128.11                 119.21
128.12                 119.22
128.13                 119.23
128.14                 119.24
128.15                 119.25
128.16                 119.26
128.20                 119.40
128.21                 119.41
128.22                 119.42
128.23                 119.43
128.24                 119.44
128.30                 119.55
128.31                 119.56
128.32                 119.57
128.33                 119.58
128.34                 119.59
128.35                 119.60
128.99                 119.99
129A.01                118.01
129A.02                118.02
129A.03                118.03
129A.04                118.04
129A.05                118.05
129A.06                118.06
129A.07                118.07
129A.08                118.08
129A.09                118.09
129A.99                118.99
130.01                 130.01
130.011                130.02
130.012                130.03
130.02                 130.15
130.04                 130.17
130.05                 130.18
130.06                 130.19
130.10                 130.30
130.11                 130.31
130.12                 130.32
130.17                 130.37
130.18                 130.38
130.20                 130.50
130.21                 130.51
130.22                 130.52
130.25                 130.65
130.26                 130.66
130.99                 130.99
131.01                 131.01;
                       131.99
131.02                 131.02;
                       131.99
131.03                 131.03;
                       131.99
131.04                 131.04;
                       131.99
131.05                 131.05;
                       131.99
132.01                 132.001
132.05                 132.015
132.07                 132.016
132.08                 132.017;
                       132.999
132.10                 132.018;
                       132.999
132.11                 132.019;
                       132.999
132.18                 132.031
132.251                132.046;
                       132.999
132.27                 132.047;
                       132.999
132.29                 132.049
132.31                 132.060
132.32                 132.061
132.33                 132.062
132.34                 132.063
132.36                 132.064;
                       132.999
132.40                 132.075
132.41                 132.076;
                       132.999
132.42                 132.077;
                       132.999
132.43                 132.078;
                       132.999
133.01                 133.01
133.02                 133.02
133.10                 133.99
133.11                 133.16
133.22                 133.32
134.01                 134.01;
                       134.99
134.02                 134.02
134.03                 134.03
134.04                 134.04;
                       134.99
134.10                 134.15
134.11                 134.16
134.12                 134.17
134.15                 134.30
134.16                 134.31;
                       134.99
134.17                 134.32
134.25                 134.45
134.26                 134.46
134.27                 134.47
134.28                 134.48
134.29                 134.49
134.30                 134.50
134.31                 134.51
134.32                 134.52
134.40                 134.65
134.41                 134.66
134.42                 134.67
134.43                 134.68
134.99                 134.99
135.03                 135.03;
                       135.99
135.04                 135.04;
                       135.99
135.05                 135.05
135.10                 135.20
135.11                 135.21
135.12                 135.22
135.14                 135.24
135.16                 135.26
135.20                 135.40
135.21                 135.41
136.01                 136.01
136.05                 136.05
136.09                 136.13
136.13                 136.14
136.21                 136.31
136.26                 136.45
136.35                 136.60
136.36                 136.61
136.37                 136.62
136.38                 136.63
136.39                 136.64
136.40                 136.65
136.41                 136.66
136.42                 136.67
136.43                 136.68
136.44                 136.69
136.99                 136.99
137.01                 137.99
137.03                 137.03;
                       137.99
137.04                 137.04;
                       137.99
137.06                 137.06
137.07                 137.07
137.10                 137.20
137.11                 137.21
137.12                 137.22
137.99                 137.99
138.01                 138.01
138.04                 138.04
138.99                 138.99
150.01                 150.01
150.02                 150.02
150.03                 150.03
150.04                 150.04
150.05                 150.05
150.06                 150.06
150.07                 150.07
150.08                 150.08
150.09                 150.09
150.10                 150.10
150.11                 150.11
150.12                 150.12
150.13                 150.13
150.14                 150.14
150.15                 150.25
150.16                 150.26
150.17                 150.27
150.18                 150.28
150.19                 150.29
150.20                 150.30
150.21                 150.31
150.22                 150.32
150.23                 150.33
150.24                 150.34
150.99                 150.99
151.01                 151.01
151.02                 151.02
151.03                 151.03
151.04                 151.04
151.05                 151.05
151.06                 151.06
152.01                 152.01
152.02                 152.02
152.03                 152.03
152.04                 152.04
152.05                 152.05
152.06                 152.06
152.07                 152.07
152.08                 152.08
155.01                 153.01
155.02                 153.02
155.03                 153.15
155.04                 153.16
155.05                 153.17
155.06                 153.18
155.07                 153.19
155.10                 153.30
155.11                 153.31
155.12                 153.32
155.13                 153.33
155.14                 153.34
155.15                 153.35
155.16                 153.36
155.17                 153.37
155.18                 153.38
155.19                 153.39
155.99                 153.99
156.01                 154.01
156.02                 154.02
156.03                 154.03
156.04                 154.04
156.05                 154.05
156.06                 154.06
156.07                 154.07
156.08                 154.08
156.09                 154.09
157.01                 155.01
157.02                 155.02
157.03                 155.03
157.04                 155.04
158.001                156.01
158.002                156.02
158.003                156.03
158.004                156.04
158.005                156.05
158.010                156.20
158.011                156.21
158.012                156.22
158.013                156.23
158.014                156.24
158.015                156.25
158.025                156.40
158.026                156.41
158.027                156.42
158.028                156.43
158.029                156.44
158.030                156.45
158.031                156.46
158.032                156.47
158.033                156.48
158.034                156.49
158.035                156.50
158.036                156.51
158.999                156.99
Ch. 158, App. A        Ch. 156, App. A
Ch. 158, App. B        Ch. 156, App. B
Ch. 158, App. C        Ch. 156, App. C
159.001                157.001
159.002                157.002
159.003                157.003
159.004                157.004
159.005                157.005
159.006                157.006
159.007                157.007
159.008                157.008
159.009                157.009
159.013                157.020
159.014                157.021
159.015                157.022
159.016                157.023
159.017                157.024
159.018                157.025
159.019                157.026
159.020                157.027
159.021                157.028
159.022                157.029
159.023                157.030
159.024                157.031
159.025                157.032
159.026                157.033
159.027                157.034
159.028                157.035
159.029                157.036
159.030                157.037
159.031                157.038
159.032                157.039
159.033                157.040
159.034                157.041
159.035                157.042
159.037                157.043
159.038                157.044
159.039                157.045
159.040                157.060
159.041                157.061
159.042                157.062
159.043                157.063
159.044                157.064
159.045                157.065
159.046                157.066
159.050                157.067
159.051                157.068
159.052                157.069
159.053                157.070
159.054                157.071
159.055                157.072
159.056                157.073
159.060                157.074
159.061                157.075
159.062                157.076
159.063                157.077
159.064                157.078
159.065                157.079
159.066                157.080
159.067                157.081
159.068                157.082
159.069                157.083
159.070                157.095
159.071                157.096
159.072                157.097
159.073                157.098
159.074                157.099
159.075                157.100
159.076                157.101
159.080                157.102
159.081                157.103
159.082                157.104
159.083                157.105
159.090                157.106
159.091                157.107
159.092                157.108
159.100                157.109
159.105                157.120
159.106                157.121
159.107                157.122
159.108                157.123
159.109                157.124
159.110                157.125
159.111                157.126
159.112                157.140
159.113                157.141
159.114                157.142
159.115                157.143
159.116                157.144
159.121                157.155
159.122                157.156
159.123                157.157
159.124                157.158
159.125                157.159
159.126                157.160
159.127                157.161
159.128                157.162
159.129                157.163
159.130                157.164
159.131                157.165
159.132                157.166
159.133                157.167
159.140                157.180
159.141                157.181
159.142                157.182
159.143                157.183
159.144                157.184
159.145                157.185
159.146                157.186
159.147                157.187
159.150                157.200
159.151                157.201
159.152                157.202
159.153                157.203
159.154                157.204
159.155                157.205
159.156                157.206
159.157                157.207
159.158                157.208
159.159                157.209
159.170                157.220
159.171                157.221
159.172                157.222
159.173                157.223
159.174                157.224
159.175                157.225
159.176                157.226
159.177                157.227
159.178                157.228
159.179                157.229
159.999                157.999
Ch. 159, App. A        Ch. 157, App. A
Ch. 159, App. B        Ch. 157, App. B
Ch. 159, App. C        Ch. 157, App. C
Ch. 159, App. D        Ch. 157, App. D
160.001                57.001
160.002                57.002
160.010                57.015
160.011                57.016
160.012                57.017
160.013                57.030
160.014                57.031
160.015                57.032
160.016                57.033
160.017                57.034
160.018                57.035
160.019                57.036
160.020                57.050
160.021                57.051
160.022                57.052
160.023                57.053
160.024                57.054
160.025                57.055
160.026                57.056
160.027                57.057
160.028                57.058
160.029                57.059
160.030                57.070
160.031                57.071
160.032                57.072
160.033                57.073
160.034                57.074
160.035                57.075
160.036                57.076
160.037                57.077
160.038                57.078
160.039                57.079
160.040                57.090
160.041                57.091
160.042                57.092
160.043                57.093
160.044                57.094
160.055                57.105
160.056                57.106
160.057                57.107
160.058                57.108
160.059                57.109
160.060                57.110
160.061                57.111
160.062                57.112
160.063                57.113
160.064                57.114
160.065                57.115
160.066                57.116
160.067                57.117
160.068                57.118
160.080                57.130
160.081                57.131
160.082                57.132
160.083                57.133
160.084                57.134
160.085                57.135
160.086                57.136
160.087                57.150
160.088                57.151
160.089                57.152
160.090                57.153
160.091                57.154
160.092                57.155
160.093                57.156
160.094                57.157
160.095                57.158
160.096                57.159
160.097                57.160
160.098                57.161
160.099                57.162
160.100                57.163;
                       57.999
160.110                57.175
160.111                57.176
160.112                57.177
160.113                57.190
160.114                57.191
160.115                57.192
160.116                57.205
160.117                57.206
160.118                57.207
160.119                57.208
160.120                57.209
160.121                57.210
160.122                57.225
160.123                57.226
160.124                57.227
160.125                57.228
160.126                57.229
160.135                57.240
160.136                57.241
160.137                57.242
160.138                57.243
160.139                57.244
160.140                57.245
160.150                57.260
160.151                57.261
160.152                57.262
160.153                57.263
160.154                57.264
160.165                57.275
160.166                57.276
160.167                57.277
160.168                57.278
160.169                57.279
160.170                57.280
160.171                57.281
160.172                57.282
160.173                57.283
160.185                57.295
160.186                57.296
160.187                57.297
160.188                57.298
160.189                57.299
160.190                57.300
160.191                57.301
160.192                57.302
160.200                57.315
160.201                57.316
160.202                57.317
160.203                57.318
160.204                57.319
160.205                57.320
160.206                57.321
160.215                57.335
160.216                57.336
160.217                57.337
160.218                57.338
160.225                57.350
Ch. 160, App. A        Ch. 57, App. A
Ch. 160, App. B        Ch. 57, App. B
Ch. 160, App. C        Ch. 57, App. C
Ch. 160, App. D        Ch. 57, App. D
Ch. 160, App. E        Ch. 57, App. E
Ch. 160, App. F        Ch. 57, App. F
161.01                 158.01
161.02                 158.02
161.03                 158.03
161.04                 158.04
161.05                 158.05
161.06                 158.06
161.07                 158.07
161.08                 158.08
                       
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
-          9-20-1972   TSO Table VIII
-          3-6-1974    TSO Table VIII
-          4-4-1974    TSO Table II
-          5-15-1974   TSO Table II
-          5-15-1974   TSO Table V
-          8-21-1974   31.023;
                       31.024
-          11-20-1974  TSO Table II
-          1-2-1975    TSO Table II
-          3-19-1975   TSO Table II
-          4-16-1975   Ch. 79, Schd. I
-          10-1-1975   TSO Table II
-          10-1-1975   TSO Table II
-          12-17-1975  TSO Table II
-          3-3-1976    TSO Table II
-          9-1-1976    TSO Table IX
-          10-20-1976  TSO Table IX
-          12-1-1976   TSO Table V
-          1-19-1977   TSO Table II
-          12-21-1977  TSO Table III
19-78      8-23-1978   TSO Table VI
43-79      5-16-1979   TSO Table II
50-79      8-1-1979    TSO Table VI
61-79      10-17-1979  TSO Table II
63-79      11-7-1979   TSO Table II
70-79      12-5-1979   TSO Table II
79-80      4-2-1980    TSO Table II
86-80      5-7-1980    TSO Table II
105-80     11-19-1980  TSO Table II
145-81     10-21-1981  TSO Table XII
177-82     3-3-1982    TSO Table V
178-82     3-3-1982    TSO Table V
179-82     3-17-1982   TSO Table VI
181-82     3-17-1982   TSO Table V
184-82     4-21-1982   TSO Table XII
188-82     5-5-1982    TSO Table II
194-82     6-2-1982    TSO Table XII
202-82     7-7-1982    TSO Table III
210-82     10-6-1982   TSO Table II
217-82     12-8-1982   TSO Table VI
218-82     12-8-1982   TSO Table II
219-82     12-22-1982  TSO Table VI
229-83     1-5-1983    TSO Table III
230-83     1-5-1983    TSO Table II
236-83     2-2-1983    TSO Table II
242-83     3-2-1983    33.03
244-83     3-16-1983   TSO Table V
245-83     3-16-1983   TSO Table V
246-83     3-16-1983   TSO Table II
247-83     3-16-1983   TSO Table V
249-83     4-6-1983    TSO Table XIV
258-83     5-4-1983    37.080
264-83     6-1-1983    TSO Table II
271-83     7-20-1983   TSO Table XII
272-83     8-3-1983    TSO Table XII
280-83     9-7-1983    TSO Table XII
281-83     9-21-1983   TSO Table II
283-83     10-5-1983   TSO Table XII
285-83     11-2-1983   TSO Table II
291-83     11-16-1983  TSO Table III
290-83     12-21-1983  37.036
305-84     2-15-1984   TSO Table II
322-84     4-18-1984   TSO Table XII
324-84     4-18-1984   TSO Table VI
326-84     5-2-1984    TSO Table XII
328-84     5-2-1984    39.001
338-84     7-11-1984   TSO Table XII
356-84     10-3-1984   TSO Table V
357-84     10-3-1984   TSO Table II
366-84     10-17-1984  39.002
375-85     1-2-1985    44.090—
                       44.094
379-85     2-6-1985    TSO Table XII
394-85     5-15-1985   TSO Table XII
406-85     6-19-1985   37.095
415-85     9-4-1985    TSO Table XII
416-85     9-4-1985    TSO Table XII
422-85     10-2-1985   TSO Table II
426-85     11-20-1985  TSO Table II
427-85     11-20-1985  TSO Table XII
430-85     12-18-1985  TSO Table XII
435-1-86   1-15-1986   TSO Table II
437-86     2-5-1986    34.04
438-86     2-5-1986    TSO Table XIV
440-86     2-5-1986    TSO Table XIII
447-86     4-2-1986    TSO Table II
449-86     4-16-1986   TSO Table XII
454-86     5-7-1986    TSO Table V
455-86     6-4-1986    58.006
458-86     6-18-1986   36.085
465-86     8-20-1986   TSO Table XII
468-86     9-3-1986    TSO Table XII
469-86     9-3-1986    TSO Table II
474-86     10-8-1986   TSO Table XII
476-86     10-8-1986   44.091
478-86     10-22-1986  TSO Table V
479-86     10-22-1986  TSO Table V
481-86     10-22-1986  TSO Table XII
482-86     10-22-1986  TSO Table V
483-86     11-5-1986   TSO Table XII
486-86     12-17-1986  TSO Table XI
498-87     3-4-1987    TSO Table II
506-87     4-1-1987    TSO Table XIV
508-87     4-1-1987    TSO Table XII
509-87     4-1-1987    TSO Table XII
515-87     5-6-1987    TSO Table XIV
516-87     5-20-1987   35.036
517-87     6-3-1987    TSO Table XIV
518-87     6-3-1987    TSO Table XIV
519-87     6-3-1987    TSO Table XII
520-87     6-3-1987    TSO Table XII
632-89     8-16-1989   TSO Table X
644-89     8-16-1989   TSO Table II
639-89     9-8-1989    TSO Table II
640-89     9-20-1989   TSO Table VIII
650-89     10-18-1989  TSO Table II
651-89     10-18-1989  TSO Table II
655-89     11-1-1989   TSO Table II
659-89     11-15-1989  TSO Table II
661-89     12-6-1989   TSO Table II
674-90     2-21-1990   TSO Table II
690-90     5-16-1990   TSO Table V
691-90     5-16-1990   TSO Table II
702-90     8-1-1990    TSO Table II
703-90     8-15-1990   TSO Table II
704-90     9-5-1990    TSO Table II
707-90     9-19-1990   37.110
710-90     10-3-1990   TSO Table II
713-90     10-30-1990  TSO Table III
737-91     2-20-1991   TSO Table II
741-91     2-20-1991   TSO Table II
744-91     3-20-1991   TSO Table II
745-91     4-17-1991   TSO Table II
757-91     5-15-1991   TSO Table XIV
758-91     5-15-1991   TSO Table II
779-91     8-21-1991   TSO Table XIV
782-91     9-4-1991    38.12
768-91     9-5-1991    TSO Table II
790-91     10-2-1991   TSO Table XI
793-91     11-6-1991   TSO Table VIII
794-91     11-6-1991   TSO Table III
796-91     11-20-1991  TSO Table II
808-92     2-5-1992    TSO Table III
811-92     3-18-1992   TSO Table XI
820-92     4-24-1992   TSO Table II
825-92     5-20-1992   TSO Table II
829-92     6-3-1992    TSO Table VI
832-92     6-17-1992   TSO Table III
841-92     8-5-1992    TSO Table II
842-92     8-5-1992    TSO Table II
868-92     10-21-1992  TSO Table II
869-92     10-21-1992  TSO Table II
874-92     12-9-1992   TSO Table XIV
876-93     1-6-1993    TSO Table XIV
878-93     1-6-1993    TSO Table II
885-93     2-17-1993   TSO Table II
892-93     3-3-1993    TSO Table XIII
907-93     4-21-1993   TSO Table III
909-93     4-21-1993   TSO Table XIV
910-93     4-21-1993   TSO Table XIV
911-93     4-21-1993   TSO Table XI
915-93     5-19-1993   TSO Table XIV
925-93     6-2-1993    TSO Table II
927-93     7-7-1993    TSO Table II
928-93     7-7-1993    34.21
937-93     8-18-1993   TSO Table VIII
944-93     9-1-1993    TSO Table XIV
953-93     9-15-1993   TSO Table XIV
950-93     10-6-1993   TSO Table II
956-93     10-20-1993  TSO Table II
961-93     11-17-1993  TSO Table XIV
964-93     11-17-1993  TSO Table II
966-93     12-8-1993   TSO Table XI
973-93     12-21-1993  34.22
974-93     12-21-1993  34.23
975-93     12-21-1993  TSO Table II
977-94     1-5-1994    37.110
978-94     1-5-1994    TSO Table II
980-94     1-19-1994   37.110
982-94     1-19-1994   TSO Table II
989-94     2-2-1994    TSO Table V
1008-94    4-6-1994    37.110
1014-94    4-20-1994   34.24
1032-94    5-18-1994   TSO Table XIV
1034-94    5-18-1994   TSO Table XIV
1040-94    6-1-1994    34.25
1037-94    6-15-1994   TSO Table XIV
1045-94    7-6-1994    TSO Table II
1047-94    7-6-1994    TSO Table VII
1048-94    7-6-1994    TSO Table XIV
1051-94    8-3-1994    TSO Table XIV
1053-94    8-3-1994    TSO Table II
1060-94    9-7-1994    TSO Table XIII
1061-94    9-7-1994    TSO Table XIII
1062-94    9-7-1994    TSO Table XI
1064-94    9-7-1994    TSO Table II
1066-94    9-21-1994   34.26
1073-94    10-5-1994   TSO Table XIV
1077-94    10-12-1994  TSO Table II
1076-94    10-19-1994  TSO Table II
1079-94    11-2-1994   TSO Table XIV
1082-94    11-2-1994   TSO Table II
1083-94    11-2-1994   TSO Table II
1087-94    11-16-1994  TSO Table II
1090-94    11-29-1994  TSO Table II
1091-94    12-7-1994   TSO Table XIV
1102-95    1-18-1995   TSO Table II
1105-95    2-1-1995    TSO Table II
1108-95    2-1-1995    TSO Table II
1109-95    2-1-1995    TSO Table XIV
1119-95    3-1-1995    TSO Table II
1127-95    4-5-1995    TSO Table II
1128-95    4-5-1995    TSO Table II
1129-95    4-5-1995    TSO Table II
1135-95    4-5-1995    TSO Table II
1136-95    4-19-1995   TSO Table II
1142-95    4-19-1995   TSO Table II
1144-95    4-19-1995   TSO Table II
1145-95    4-19-1995   TSO Table II
1146-95    4-19-1995   TSO Table III
1147-95    4-19-1995   TSO Table XIV
1148-95    4-19-1995   TSO Table XIV
1162-95    5-17-1995   TSO Table II
1164-95    6-7-1995    TSO Table II
1169-95    7-5-1995    TSO Table VI
1170-95    7-5-1995    TSO Table II
1173-95    7-5-1995    TSO Table II
1175-95    7-5-1995    TSO Table XIV
1176-95    7-19-1995   TSO Table II
1178-95    7-19-1995   TSO Table II
1180-95    8-2-1995    TSO Table II
1182-95    8-2-1995    TSO Table II
1183-95    8-2-1995    TSO Table XIV
1184-95    8-2-1995    TSO Table XIV
1185-95    8-2-1995    TSO Table XIV
1187-95    8-2-1995    TSO Table XIV
1190-95    8-16-1995   TSO Table X
1192-95    8-16-1995   TSO Table II
1198-95    9-6-1995    TSO Table II
2000-95    9-6-1995    TSO Table II
2006-95    9-20-1995   TSO Table XI
2009-95    10-4-1995   TSO Table XIV
2016-95    10-18-1995  TSO Table II
2017-95    10-18-1995  TSO Table II
2021-95    11-1-1995   TSO Table II
2022-95    11-1-1995   TSO Table II
2023-95    11-1-1995   TSO Table II
2034-95    12-6-1995   TSO Table II
2037-95    12-6-1995   TSO Table XIV
2044-96    1-3-1996    TSO Table XIV
2045-96    1-17-1996   TSO Table XIV
2048-96    1-17-1996   TSO Table II
2049-96    1-17-1996   TSO Table II
2072-96    3-6-1996    TSO Table II
2082-96    4-17-1996   TSO Table II
2083-96    4-17-1996   TSO Table II
2086-96    4-17-1996   TSO Table II
2087-96    4-17-1996   TSO Table XIV
2094-96    5-1-1996    TSO Table XIV
2096-96    5-1-1996    TSO Table XIII
2097-96    5-1-1996    TSO Table XIV
2102-96    6-5-1996    TSO Table XIV
2103-96    6-5-1996    TSO Table XII
2104-96    6-5-1996    TSO Table II
2109-96    6-19-1996   TSO Table II
2111-96    6-19-1996   TSO Table XIV
2112-96    7-3-1996    TSO Table VII
2116-96    7-3-1996    TSO Table II
2125-96    7-17-1996   TSO Table II
2151-96    11-6-1996   TSO Table XV
2152-96    11-6-1996   TSO Table XV
2156-96    11-6-1996   TSO Table II
2158-96    11-20-1996  TSO Table XIV
2160-96    11-20-1996  TSO Table II
2162-96    12-4-1996   TSO Table XIV
2164-96    12-18-1996  TSO Table XV
2165-96    12-18-1996  TSO Table II
2166-96    12-30-1996  TSO Table XV
2169-97    1-22-1997   TSO Table II
2170-97    1-22-1997   TSO Table II
2171-97    2-5-1997    TSO Table XIV
2172-97    2-5-1997    TSO Table XIV
2173-97    2-5-1997    TSO Table XIV
2175-97    2-19-1997   TSO Table XI
2176-97    2-19-1997   TSO Table XIV
2177-97    2-19-1997   TSO Table XV
2179-97    2-19-1997   TSO Table XII
2182-97    2-19-1997   TSO Table II
2184-1-97  2-26-1997   TSO Table XV
2185-97    3-5-1997    TSO Table XV
2186-97    3-19-1997   TSO Table XV
2187-97    3-19-1997   TSO Table XIV
2188-97    3-19-1997   TSO Table XIV
2189-97    3-19-1997   TSO Table XIV
2191-97    4-2-1997    TSO Table XV
2192-97    4-2-1997    TSO Table XV
2193       4-2-1997    TSO Table XI
2194-97    4-2-1997    TSO Table II
2199-97    5-7-1997    TSO Table XV
2201-97    5-21-1997   TSO Table II
2202-97    6-4-1997    TSO Table XIV
2203-97    6-4-1997    TSO Table XIV
2204-97    6-18-1997   TSO Table XV
2205-97    6-18-1997   TSO Table XV
2212-97    8-20-1997   TSO Table XIV
2213-97    9-3-1997    TSO Table XIV
2217-97    9-17-1997   TSO Table XV
2218-97    9-17-1997   TSO Table XIV
2220-97    9-17-1997   TSO Table XIV
2221-97    9-17-1997   TSO Table XV
2222-97    9-17-1997   TSO Table XV
2223-97    10-1-1997   TSO Table XIV
2224-97    10-1-1997   TSO Table XIV
2225-97    10-8-1997   TSO Table XV
2226-97    10-8-1997   TSO Table XV
2228-97    10-22-1997  TSO Table XV
2229-97    11-5-1997   TSO Table XIII
2230-97    11-5-1997   37.037
2236-98    2-4-1998    TSO Table XIV
2239-98    2-17-1998   TSO Table XV
2240-98    3-4-1998    TSO Table XV
2242-98    3-18-1998   TSO Table II
2245-97    4-1-1998    TSO Table XIV
2246-98    4-1-1998    TSO Table XIV
2247-98    4-15-1998   TSO Table II
2248-98    5-6-1998    TSO Table XIV
2251-98    5-6-1998    TSO Table II
2254-98    5-6-1998    TSO Table II
2259-98    5-6-1998    TSO Table XIV
2253-98    5-7-1998    TSO Table II
2255-98    5-7-1998    TSO Table II
2256-98    5-20-1998   TSO Table XV
2257-98    5-20-1998   TSO Table XV
2258-98    5-20-1998   TSO Table XV
2260-98    5-20-1998   TSO Table XIV
2261-98    5-20-1998   TSO Table XIV
2262-98    6-3-1998    TSO Table XV
2264-98    7-1-1998    TSO Table XIV
2268-98    7-1-1998    TSO Table XV
2269-98    7-1-1998    TSO Table XV
2269-98    8-19-1998   TSO Table XV
2271-98    8-19-1998   TSO Table XV
2273-98    8-19-1998   TSO Table XV
2274-98    9-2-1998    TSO Table XV
2275-98    9-16-1998   TSO Table XIV
2277-98    9-16-1998   TSO Table XV
2278-98    9-16-1998   TSO Table XV
2279-98    9-16-1998   TSO Table XV
2297-98    10-20-1998  TSO Table XIV
2285-98    10-21-1998  TSO Table XI
2286-98    10-21-1998  TSO Table XI
2287-98    10-21-1998  TSO Table XV
2288-98    10-21-1998  TSO Table XIV
2290-98    10-21-1998  TSO Table XV
2293-98    11-4-1998   TSO Table XIV
2294-98    11-4-1998   TSO Table XI
2295-98    11-4-1998   TSO Table XIV
2296-98    11-18-1998  TSO Table XIV
2299-98    11-20-1998  TSO Table II
2303-98    12-2-1998   TSO Table II
2304-98    12-16-1998  TSO Table XV
2305-98    12-16-1998  TSO Table II
2306-98    12-16-1998  TSO Table XIV
2307-99    1-4-1999    TSO Table XIV
2309-99    2-1-1999    TSO Table XV
2310-99    2-16-1999   TSO Table XIV
2311-99    2-16-1999   TSO Table XII
2312-99    2-16-1999   TSO Table II
2313-99    2-16-1999   TSO Table II
2316-99    3-1-1999    TSO Table XV
2322-99    4-19-1999   TSO Table II
2324-99    5-3-1999    TSO Table XIV
2325-99    5-3-1999    TSO Table XIV
2329-99    5-17-1999   TSO Table XV
2330-99    5-17-1999   TSO Table XIV
2331-99    5-17-1999   TSO Table XV
2332-99    5-17-1999   TSO Table XIII
2333-99    5-17-1999   TSO Table XIV
2335-99    5-17-1999   TSO Table II
2336-99    5-17-1999   TSO Table II
2338-99    6-7-1999    TSO Table XI
2339-99    6-7-1999    TSO Table XV
2340-99    6-7-1999    TSO Table XV
2341-99    6-7-1999    TSO Table II
2344-99    6-21-1999   TSO Table II
2345-99    6-28-1999   TSO Table II
2354-99    8-18-1999   TSO Table XV
2355-99    8-18-1999   TSO Table XV
2356-99    8-18-1999   TSO Table XVI
2357-99    8-18-1999   TSO Table XVI
2358-99    8-18-1999   TSO Table II
2359-99    8-18-1999   TSO Table XVI
2360-99    9-1-1999    TSO Table XVI
2361-99    9-1-1999    TSO Table XVI
2362-99    9-1-1999    TSO Table XVI
2364-99    9-1-1999    TSO Table XV
2365-99    9-15-1999   TSO Table II
2366-99    9-15-1999   TSO Table II
2367-99    9-15-1999   TSO Table XV
2374-99    10-6-1999   TSO Table XIV
2375-99    10-6-1999   TSO Table XIV
2376-99    10-6-1999   TSO Table XIV
2377-99    10-6-1999   TSO Table XVI
2379-99    10-6-1999   TSO Table XVI
2380-99    10-6-1999   TSO Table II
2383-99    10-6-1999   TSO Table II
2386-99    10-20-1999  TSO Table XVI
2392-00    10-20-1999  TSO Table II
2390-99    11-3-1999   TSO Table XV
2394-99    11-3-1999   TSO Table XVI
2395-99    11-3-1999   TSO Table XVI
2396-99    11-3-1999   TSO Table XVI
2397-99    11-3-1999   TSO Table XVI
2398-99    11-3-1999   TSO Table XVI
2407-99    11-3-1999   TSO Table XIV
2409-99    11-3-1999   TSO Table XIV
2410-99    11-3-1999   TSO Table II
2411-99    11-3-1999   TSO Table II
2408-99    11-17-1999  TSO Table XIII
2413-99    11-17-1999  TSO Table XII
2405-99    12-1-1999   TSO Table XV
2417-99    12-15-1999  TSO Table XV
2418-99    12-15-1999  TSO Table XV
2421-99    12-15-1999  TSO Table II
2425-99    12-15-1999  TSO Table II
2427-99    1-5-2000    TSO Table XVI
2428-99    1-5-2000    TSO Table XVI
2429-99    1-5-2000    TSO Table II
2415-99    1-19-2000   TSO Table XIV
2430-00    1-19-2000   TSO Table XVI
2432-99    1-19-2000   TSO Table XIII
2434-00    2-2-2000    TSO Table XVI
2438-00    2-2-2000    TSO Table II
2438-00    2-2-2000    TSO Table V
2439-00    2-2-2000    TSO Table II
2439-00    2-2-2000    TSO Table V
2440-00    2-2-2000    TSO Table II
2440-00    2-2-2000    TSO Table V
2445-00    2-16-2000   TSO Table XIV
2446-00    2-16-2000   TSO Table XVI
2447-00    2-16-2000   TSO Table XVI
2448-00    2-16-2000   TSO Table XVI
2449-00    2-16-2000   TSO Table XVI
2454-00    3-1-2000    TSO Table XVI
2455-00    3-1-2000    TSO Table XVI
2456-00    3-1-2000    TSO Table XVI
2457-00    3-1-2000    TSO Table XVI
2458-00    3-1-2000    TSO Table XVI
2459-00    3-1-2000    TSO Table XVI
2460-00    3-15-2000   TSO Table II
2466-00    3-15-2000   TSO Table II
2467-00    3-15-2000   TSO Table II
2468-00    3-15-2000   TSO Table XIV
2472-00    4-3-2000    TSO Table II
2473-00    4-5-2000    TSO Table XII
2474-00    4-5-2000    TSO Table XIV
2475-00    4-5-2000    TSO Table XIV
2476-00    4-5-2000    TSO Table XV
2477-00    4-5-2000    TSO Table II
2478-00    4-5-2000    TSO Table XV
2479-00    4-5-2000    TSO Table XV
2480-00    4-5-2000    TSO Table XIV
2481-00    4-5-2000    TSO Table XII
2479-00-01 4-19-2000   TSO Table II
2479-00-01 4-19-2000   TSO Table V
2484-00    5-3-2000    TSO Table XV
2485-00    5-3-2000    TSO Table XIV
2486-00    5-3-2000    TSO Table XIV
2487-00    5-3-2000    TSO Table XIV
2488-00    5-3-2000    TSO Table XVI
2489-00    5-3-2000    TSO Table XVI
2490-00    5-3-2000    TSO Table XVI
2491-00    5-3-2000    TSO Table XVI
2492-00    5-3-2000    TSO Table XVI
2508-00    5-23-2000   TSO Table II
2509-00    5-23-2000   TSO Table II
2496-00    6-7-2000    TSO Table XV
2497-00    6-7-2000    TSO Table XV
2498-00    6-7-2000    TSO Table XV
2500-00    6-7-2000    TSO Table XV
2501-00    6-7-2000    TSO Table II
2502-00    6-7-2000    TSO Table II
2503-00    6-7-2000    TSO Table II
2504-00    6-7-2000    TSO Table II
2505-00    6-7-2000    TSO Table XIV
2506-00    6-7-2000    TSO Table XV
2507-00    6-8-2000    TSO Table XIV
2510-00    6-21-2000   TSO Table II
2511-00    6-21-2000   TSO Table II
2512-00    6-21-2000   TSO Table XV
2513-00    6-21-2000   TSO Table XVI
2514-00    6-21-2000   TSO Table XVI
2515-00    6-21-2000   TSO Table XVI
2516-00    6-21-2000   TSO Table XVI
2518-00    6-21-2000   TSO Table XVI
2519-00    6-21-2000   TSO Table XVI
2521-00    6-21-2000   TSO Table V
2524-00    7-5-2000    TSO Table XV
2525-00    7-5-2000    TSO Table XIV
2528-00    7-19-2000   TSO Table XV
2529-00    7-19-2000   TSO Table XV
2531-00    7-19-2000   TSO Table XVI
2534-00    8-2-2000    TSO Table XV
2537-00    8-2-2000    TSO Table II
2532-00    8-16-2000   TSO Table XIV
2533-00    8-16-2000   TSO Table XV
2535-00    8-16-2000   TSO Table II
2536-00    8-16-2000   TSO Table II
2542-00    9-6-2000    TSO Table II
2543-00    9-6-2000    TSO Table II
2544-00    9-6-2000    TSO Table II
2546-00    9-6-2000    TSO Table XV
2548-00    9-20-2000   TSO Table XVI
2549-00    9-20-2000   TSO Table XVI
2550-00    9-20-2000   TSO Table XVI
2551-00    10-4-2000   TSO Table II
2552-00    10-4-2000   TSO Table II
2554-00    10-4-2000   TSO Table II
2557-00    10-4-2000   TSO Table XIV
2558-00    10-4-2000   TSO Table XIV
2559-00    10-4-2000   TSO Table II
2560-00    10-4-2000   TSO Table II
2561-00    10-4-2000   TSO Table II
2562-00    10-4-2000   TSO Table II
2563-00    10-4-2000   TSO Table II
2564-00    10-11-2000  TSO Table XV
2567-00    10-18-2000  TSO Table XV
2568-00    10-18-2000  TSO Table XIV
2569-00    10-18-2000  TSO Table X
2570-00    10-18-2000  TSO Table XV
2571-00    10-18-2000  TSO Table XIV
2572-00    10-18-2000  TSO Table XV
2573-00    10-18-2000  TSO Table XIV
2575-00    11-1-2000   TSO Table II
2576-00    11-1-2000   TSO Table XV
2578-00    11-15-2000  TSO Table II
2579-00    11-15-2000  TSO Table II
2580-00    11-15-2000  TSO Table II
2581-00    11-15-2000  TSO Table II
2583-00    11-15-2000  TSO Table XV
2585-00    11-15-2000  TSO Table XV
2586-00    12-6-2000   TSO Table II
2587-00    12-6-2000   TSO Table II
2588-00    12-6-2000   TSO Table II
2591-00    12-6-2000   TSO Table XVI
2592-00    12-6-2000   TSO Table XVI
2593-00    12-6-2000   TSO Table XVI
2594-00    12-6-2000   TSO Table XVI
2595-00    12-6-2000   TSO Table XVI
2596-00    12-6-2000   TSO Table XVI
2597-00    12-20-2000  TSO Table XV
2598-00    12-20-2000  TSO Table XVI
2599-00    12-20-2000  TSO Table XVI
2601-00    12-20-2000  TSO Table XV
2-01       1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
3-01       1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
4-01       1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
5-01       1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
6-01       1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
7-01       1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
8-01       1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
9-01       1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
1-01       1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
10-01      1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
11-01      1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
12-01      1-17-2001   TSO Table XVI
13-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table II
14-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table II
16-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table XVI
17-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table XVI
18-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table XVI
19-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table XVI
20-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table XV
21-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table XV
22-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table X
23-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table V
25-01      2-7-2001    TSO Table II
26-01      2-21-2001   TSO Table XVI
27-01      2-21-2001   TSO Table XIV
28-01      2-21-2001   TSO Table XV
29-01      2-21-2001   TSO Table XV
31-01      3-7-2001    TSO Table XV
32-01      3-7-2001    TSO Table XVI
33-01      3-7-2001    TSO Table XVI
38-01      3-20-2001   TSO Table II
37-01      3-21-2001   TSO Table XV
40-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table II
41-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table XVI
42-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table XVI
43-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table XVI
44-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table XVI
45-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table XVI
46-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table XVI
47-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table XVI
48-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table XV
49-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table V
50-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table XV
51-01      4-4-2001    TSO Table XV
62-01      4-18-2001   TSO Table II
63-01      4-18-2001   TSO Table XVI
64-01      4-18-2001   TSO Table XIV
65-01      4-18-2001   TSO Table XV
70-01      5-2-2001    TSO Table XIV
71-01      5-2-2001    TSO Table XIV
76-01      5-6-2001    35.042—
                       35.053
73-01      5-16-2001   TSO Table II
74-01      5-16-2001   TSO Table V
75-01      5-16-2001   TSO Table II
77-01      5-16-2001   35.160—
                       35.172
78-01      5-16-2001   TSO Table XVI
79-01      5-16-2001   TSO Table X
80-01      5-16-2001   TSO Table XV
81-01      5-16-2001   TSO Table XV
82-01      5-16-2001   TSO Table XV
83-01      5-16-2001   TSO Table XV
85-01      5-16-2001   TSO Table II
89-01      6-6-2001    TSO Table XVI
90-01      6-6-2001    TSO Table XVI
91-01      6-6-2001    TSO Table XVI
92-01      6-6-2001    TSO Table XVI
93-01      6-6-2001    TSO Table XVI
94-01      6-6-2001    TSO Table II
95-01      6-6-2001    TSO Table XV
96-01      6-6-2001    TSO Table XV
97-01      6-6-2001    TSO Table XV
98-01      6-6-2001    TSO Table XV
101-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XVI
102-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XVI
103-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XVI
105-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XIV
106-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XV
107-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XIV
108-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XV
109-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XIV
110-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XIV
111-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XV
114-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XV
115-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XV
116-01     6-20-2001   TSO Table XV
119-01     7-11-2001   TSO Table II
120-01     7-11-2001   TSO Table II
122-01     7-11-2001   TSO Table III
122-01     7-11-2001   TSO Table XIV
123-01     7-11-2001   TSO Table V
124-01     7-11-2001   TSO Table XV
126-01     7-11-2001   TSO Table XV
127-01     7-11-2001   TSO Table XIV
128-01     7-11-2001   TSO Table XV
131-01     7-18-2001   TSO Table II
132-01     7-18-2001   TSO Table XVI
133-01     8-1-2001    TSO Table II
135-01     8-1-2001    TSO Table II
136-01     8-1-2001    TSO Table III
136-01     8-1-2001    TSO Table XIV
137-01     8-1-2001    TSO Table XVI
139-01     8-15-2001   TSO Table II
140-01     8-15-2001   TSO Table II
141-01     8-15-2001   TSO Table XVI
142-01     8-15-2001   TSO Table XVI
143-01     8-15-2001   TSO Table XVI
144-01     9-5-2001    TSO Table II
145-01     9-5-2001    TSO Table II
147-01     9-5-2001    TSO Table II
148-01     9-5-2001    TSO Table V
150-01     9-19-2001   58.006
150-01     9-19-2001   TSO Table II
152-01     10-17-2001  TSO Table II
154-01     10-17-2001  TSO Table XV
155-01     10-17-2001  TSO Table XIV
156-01     10-17-2001  TSO Table XV
157-01     10-17-2001  TSO Table XIV
158-01     10-17-2001  TSO Table XIV
159-01     10-17-2001  TSO Table XV
160-01     11-7-2001   TSO Table II
161-01     11-7-2001   TSO Table II
163-01     11-7-2001   TSO Table V
164-01     11-7-2001   TSO Table XV
165-01     11-20-2001  TSO Table II
169-01     12-5-2001   TSO Table XVI
170-01     12-5-2001   TSO Table XVI
171-01     12-5-2001   TSO Table XVI
172-01     12-5-2001   TSO Table XVI
173-01     12-5-2001   TSO Table XVI
174-01     12-5-2001   TSO Table XV
175-01     12-5-2001   TSO Table XV
177-01     12-19-2001  TSO Table XVI
176-01     1-2-2002    TSO Table II
178-01     1-2-2002    TSO Table XVI
0002-02    2-6-2002    TSO Table XVI
0003-02    2-6-2002    TSO Table XVI
0006-02    2-20-2002   35.095
0007-02    2-20-2002   156.45
0008-02    2-20-2002   TSO Table XVI
0009-02    2-20-2002   TSO Table XV
0010-02    2-20-2002   TSO Table XIV
0011-02    2-20-2002   TSO Table XV
0012-02    3-6-2002    TSO Table II
0013-02    3-6-2002    TSO Table II
0014-02    3-6-2002    TSO Table II
0015-02    3-6-2002    TSO Table XIV
0016-02    3-6-2002    TSO Table XV
0017-02    3-20-2002   TSO Table II
0018-02    3-20-2002   TSO Table II
0019-02    3-20-2002   TSO Table XV
0021-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table V
0022-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table V
0023-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table V
0024-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table V
0025-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table XV
0026-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table XV
0027-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table XV
0028-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table XV
0029-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table XIV
0030-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table XV
0031-02    4-3-2002    35.110—
                       35.116
0032-02    4-3-2002    TSO Table II
0033-02    4-17-2002   TSO Table II
0037-02    4-17-2002   TSO Table II
0038-02    4-17-2002   TSO Table II
0040-02    4-17-2002   TSO Table II
0041-02    5-1-2002    TSO Table XVI
0042-02    5-1-2002    TSO Table XVI
0043-02    5-1-2002    TSO Table XVI
0044-02    5-1-2002    TSO Table II
0045-02    5-1-2002    TSO Table II
0046-02    5-1-2002    TSO Table XV
0047-02    5-1-2002    TSO Table XV
0048-01    5-1-2002    TSO Table XV
0049-02    5-1-2002    TSO Table XIV
0055-02    5-15-2002   TSO Table II
0056-02    5-15-2002   TSO Table II
0057-02    5-15-2002   TSO Table XV
0059-02    5-15-2002   TSO Table XV
0060-02    5-15-2002   TSO Table XV
0061-02    5-15-2002   TSO Table XIV
0062-02    5-15-2002   TSO Table XV
0066-02    6-12-2002   TSO Table II
0063-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table XIV
0064-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table XV
0067-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table II
0068-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table XVI
0069-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table XVI
0070-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table XVI
0071-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table XVI
0072-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table II
0073-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table II
0074-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table V
0075-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table V
0077-02    6-19-2002   TSO Table II
0083-02    7-3-2002    TSO Table XVI
0085-02    7-3-2002    TSO Table XV
0086-02    7-3-2002    TSO Table II
0087-02    7-3-2002    TSO Table II
0125-02    7-11-2002   TSO Table XIV
0084-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XVI
0090-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table II
0091-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XV
0092-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XV
0093-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XIV
0094-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XV
0095-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table V
0097-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XIV
0098-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XV
0099-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XIV
0100-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XV
0101-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XIV
0102-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XIV
0103-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XV
0104-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XIV
0105-02    7-17-2002   TSO Table XV
0106-02    8-7-2002    TSO Table II
0107-02    8-7-2002    35.113
0108-02    8-7-2002    TSO Table XVI
0109-02    8-7-2002    TSO Table XVI
0110-02    8-7-2002    TSO Table XVI
0111-02    8-7-2002    TSO Table XVI
0114-02    8-7-2002    TSO Table XV
0115-02    8-7-2002    TSO Table XIV
0116-02    8-7-2002    TSO Table XIV
0076-02    8-8-2002    TSO Table II
0117-02    8-21-2002   TSO Table II
0118-02    8-21-2002   TSO Table II
0120-02    8-21-2002   TSO Table XV
0126-02    8-26-2002   TSO Table II
0123-02    9-5-2002    TSO Table XVI
0125-02    9-5-2002    TSO Table II
0079-02    9-6-2002    TSO Table II
0129-02    9-18-2002   TSO Table II
0130-02    9-18-2002   TSO Table II
0131-02    9-18-2002   TSO Table II
0132-02    9-18-2002   TSO Table II
0133-02    9-18-2002   TSO Table XIV
0134-02    9-18-2002   TSO Table XV
0054-02    9-19-2002   TSO Table II
0054-02    9-19-2002   TSO Table II
0138-02    10-2-2002   TSO Table XVI
0139-02    10-2-2002   TSO Table V
0141-02    10-2-2002   TSO Table XV
0142A-02   10-2-2002   TSO Table XV
0076-02    10-16-2002  TSO Table II
0143-02    10-16-2002  TSO Table XV
0144-02    10-16-2002  TSO Table XV
0146-02    10-16-2002  TSO Table XVI
0147-02    11-6-2002   TSO Table XV
0149-02    11-6-2002   TSO Table XVI
0150-02    11-6-2002   TSO Table XVI
0151-02    11-6-2002   TSO Table XVI
0152-02    11-6-2002   TSO Table XVI
0153-02    11-6-2002   TSO Table XV
0154-02    11-6-2002   TSO Table XV
0157-02    11-6-2002   TSO Table XV
0162-02    11-20-2002  TSO Table V
0091-02    12-4-2002   TSO Table II
0092-02    12-4-2002   TSO Table II
0093-02    12-4-2002   TSO Table II
0094-02    12-4-2002   TSO Table II
0164-02    12-4-2002   TSO Table XVI
0166-02    12-4-2002   TSO Table II
0167-02    12-4-2002   TSO Table II
0169-02    12-4-2002   TSO Table V
0170-02    12-4-2002   TSO Table V
0171-02    12-7-2002   TSO Table XV
0172-02    12-18-2002  TSO Table XVI
0173-02    12-18-2002  TSO Table XVI
0001-03    1-8-2003    TSO Table XV
0002-03    1-8-2003    TSO Table XIV
0003-03    1-8-2003    TSO Table XIV
0004-03    1-22-2003   TSO Table XIV
0005-03    1-22-2003   TSO Table II
0006-03    1-22-2003   TSO Table II
0008-03    2-5-2003    TSO Table XVI
0009-03    2-5-2003    TSO Table II
0010-03    2-19-2003   TSO Table XVI
0011-03    2-19-2003   TSO Table II
0012-03    3-5-2003    TSO Table II
0013-03    3-5-2003    TSO Table XV
0015-03    3-19-2003   TSO Table II
0017-03    3-19-2003   TSO Table II
0018-03    3-19-2003   TSO Table XV
0019-03    3-19-2003   TSO Table XV
0020-03    3-19-2003   TSO Table XV
0025-03    3-19-2003   TSO Table XV
0026-03    3-19-2003   TSO Table XIV
0027-03    3-19-2003   TSO Table XV
0028-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table II
0029-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table II
0031-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table II
0032-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table II
0034-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table II
0035-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table XVI
0036-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table XV
0037-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table XIV
0038-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table XIV
0039-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table XIV
0040-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table XV
0041-03    4-2-2003    TSO Table XIV
0042-03    4-16-2003   TSO Table II
0043-03    4-16-2003   TSO Table II
0044-03    4-16-2003   TSO Table XVI
0045-03    4-16-2003   TSO Table XVI
0047-03    5-7-2003    TSO Table II
0048-03    5-7-2003    TSO Table II
0050-03    5-7-2003    TSO Table XV
0051-03    5-7-2003    TSO Table XIV
0053-03    5-21-2003   TSO Table II
0054-03    5-21-2003   TSO Table II
0055-03    5-21-2003   TSO Table II
0056-03    5-21-2003   TSO Table XVI
0057-03    5-21-2003   TSO Table XVI
0058-03    5-21-2003   TSO Table II
0059-03    5-21-2003   TSO Table II
0062-03    6-4-2003    TSO Table II
0064-03    6-4-2003    TSO Table XVI
0065-03    6-4-2003    TSO Table XVI
0066-03    6-4-2003    TSO Table II
0067-03    6-4-2003    TSO Table XV
0068-03    6-4-2003    TSO Table II
0069-03    6-4-2003    TSO Table VIII
0070-03    6-18-2003   TSO Table II
0071-03    6-18-2003   TSO Table II
0073-03    6-18-2003   TSO Table II
0074-03    6-18-2003   TSO Table II
0075-03    7-2-2003    TSO Table XVI
0076-03    7-2-2003    TSO Table XV
0077-03    7-2-2003    TSO Table XIV
0078-03    7-2-2003    TSO Table V
0080-03    7-16-2003   TSO Table XVI
0081-03    7-16-2003   TSO Table XV
0082-03    8-6-2003    TSO Table XVI
0083-03    8-6-2003    TSO Table XVI
0084-03    8-6-2003    TSO Table XVI
0085-03    8-20-2003   TSO Table XIV
0086-03    8-20-2003   TSO Table XV
0088-03    8-20-2003   TSO Table XV
03-0091    9-3-2003    TSO Table XVI
03-0092    9-3-2003    TSO Table XVI
03-0093    9-3-2003    TSO Table XVI
03-0100    9-3-2003    TSO Table II
03-0101    9-3-2003    TSO Table XV
03-0102    9-3-2003    TSO Table XIV
03-0103    9-3-2003    TSO Table XV
03-0104    9-3-2003    TSO Table XV
03-0109    9-17-2003   TSO Table XIV
03-0114    9-17-2003   TSO Table XV
03-0117    9-17-2003   TSO Table XV
03-0118    10-1-2003   TSO Table XV
03-0123    10-1-2003   TSO Table XVI
03-0124    10-1-2003   TSO Table XVI
03-0125    10-1-2003   TSO Table XVI
03-0126    10-1-2003   TSO Table II
03-0127    10-1-2003   TSO Table XV
03-0128    10-1-2003   TSO Table XV
03-0129    10-1-2003   TSO Table XIV
03-0130    10-1-2003   TSO Table XV
03-0131    10-1-2003   TSO Table XIV
03-0134    10-15-2003  TSO Table XVI
03-0135    10-15-2003  TSO Table XVI
03-0136    10-15-2003  TSO Table II
03-0141    11-5-2003   TSO Table XV
03-0142    11-5-2003   TSO Table XV
03-0144    11-5-2003   TSO Table XVI
03-0146    11-5-2003   TSO Table XVI
03-0147    11-5-2003   TSO Table XVI
03-0149    11-5-2003   TSO Table XV
03-0139    11-19-2003  TSO Table XIV
03-0140    11-19-2003  TSO Table XV
03-0151    11-19-2003  TSO Table XVI
03-0153    11-19-2003  TSO Table II
03-0155    11-19-2003  TSO Table XIV
03-0157    11-19-2003  TSO Table XV
03-0158    11-19-2003  TSO Table II
03-0162    12-3-2003   TSO Table II
03-0163    12-3-2003   TSO Table II
03-0164    12-3-2003   TSO Table II
03-0119    1-7-2004    TSO Table XIV
04-0173    1-7-2004    TSO Table II
04-0174    1-7-2004    TSO Table II
04-0181    2-4-2004    TSO Table II
04-0182    2-4-2004    TSO Table II
03-0168    2-18-2004   TSO Table XIV
03-0169    2-18-2004   TSO Table XV
04-0185    2-18-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0186    2-18-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0187    2-18-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0188    2-18-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0189    2-18-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0190    2-18-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0195    3-3-2004    TSO Table XV
04-0196    3-3-2004    TSO Table XIV
04-0198    3-3-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0199    3-3-2004    TSO Table II
04-0200    3-17-2004   TSO Table V
04-0201    3-17-2004   TSO Table X
04-0202    3-17-2004   TSO Table XIV
04-0205    3-31-2004   TSO Table XV
04-0206    4-7-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0207    4-7-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0208    4-7-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0209    4-7-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0210    4-7-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0211    4-7-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0212    4-7-2004    TSO Table II
04-0213    4-7-2004    TSO Table II
03-0170    4-21-2004   TSO Table XV
04-0218    4-21-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0219    4-21-2004   TSO Table II
04-0222    5-5-2004    TSO Table XIV
04-0225    5-5-2004    TSO Table III
04-0225    5-5-2004    TSO Table III
04-0225    5-5-2004    TSO Table III
04-0225    5-5-2004    TSO Table V
04-0225    5-5-2004    TSO Table V
04-0225    5-5-2004    TSO Table V
04-0227    5-5-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0136    5-19-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0232    5-19-2004   TSO Table V
04-0233    5-19-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0235    5-19-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0241    6-2-2004    TSO Table XV
04-0242    6-2-2004    TSO Table XIV
04-0243    6-2-2004    TSO Table XV
04-0249    6-16-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0250    6-16-2004   TSO Table XV
04-0251    6-16-2004   TSO Table II
04-0253    6-16-2004   TSO Table II
04-0258    7-7-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0263    7-7-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0264    7-7-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0267    7-7-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0268    7-7-2004    TSO Table II
04-0271    7-21-2004   TSO Table II
04-0272    7-21-2004   TSO Table II
04-0274    7-21-2004   TSO Table II
04-0275    7-21-2004   TSO Table II
04-0278    7-21-2004   TSO Table II
04-0279    8-4-2004    TSO Table V
04-0282    8-4-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0283    8-4-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0286    8-4-2004    TSO Table XVI
04-0287    8-18-2004   TSO Table V
04-0288    8-18-2004   TSO Table XIV
04-0289    8-18-2004   TSO Table XIV
04-0290    8-18-2004   TSO Table XIV
04-0292    8-18-2004   TSO Table II
04-0293    8-18-2004   TSO Table II
04-0294    8-18-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0296    8-18-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0299    8-18-2004   TSO Table II
04-0303    8-18-2004   TSO Table II
04-0304    9-1-2004    TSO Table XV
04-0305    9-1-2004    TSO Table XIV
04-0306    9-1-2004    TSO Table XIV
04-0307    9-1-2004    TSO Table XIV
04-0310    9-15-2004   TSO Table II
04-0311    9-15-2004   TSO Table II
04-0312    9-15-2004   TSO Table II
04-0316    9-15-2004   TSO Table II
04-0318    10-6-2004   TSO Table XIV
04-0320    10-6-2004   TSO Table XIV
04-0323    10-6-2004   TSO Table II
04-0325    10-6-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0327    10-6-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0328    10-6-2004   TSO Table XVI
04-0332    10-6-2004   TSO Table XIV
04-0309    10-20-2004  TSO Table VI
04-0334    10-20-2004  TSO Table XVI
04-0339    11-3-2004   TSO Table II
04-0341    11-3-2004   TSO Table XIV
04-0346    11-17-2004  TSO Table XVI
04-0347    11-17-2004  TSO Table XVI
04-0352    12-15-2004  TSO Table II
04-0353    12-15-2004  TSO Table XIV
04-0354    12-15-2004  TSO Table II
04-0355    12-15-2004  TSO Table XVI
04-0357    12-15-2004  TSO Table XVI
04-0358    12-15-2004  TSO Table XVI
05-0359    1-5-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0362    1-5-2005    TSO Table II
05-0368    1-19-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0369    1-19-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0371    1-19-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0372    1-19-2005   TSO Table II
05-0373    2-2-2005    TSO Table XIV
05-0375    2-2-2005    TSO Table II
05-0376    2-2-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0378    2-2-2005    TSO Table II
05-0374    2-16-2005   TSO Table XIV
05-0379    2-16-2005   TSO Table XIV
05-0383    2-16-2005   TSO Table II
05-0384    3-2-2005    TSO Table II
05-0386    3-16-2005   TSO Table XIV
05-0387    3-16-2005   TSO Table II
05-0388    3-16-2005   TSO Table II
05-0389    3-16-2005   TSO Table II
05-0390    3-16-2005   TSO Table VII
05-0391    3-16-2005   TSO Table II
05-0393    3-16-2005   TSO Table VII
05-0394    4-6-2005    TSO Table II
05-0396    4-6-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0397    4-6-2005    TSO Table II
05-0398    4-6-2005    TSO Table II
05-0407    4-20-2005   TSO Table II
05-0409    4-20-2005   TSO Table II
05-0410    4-20-2005   TSO Table II
05-0411    4-20-2005   TSO Table II
05-0412    4-20-2005   TSO Table II
05-0413    4-20-2005   TSO Table II
05-0415    4-20-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0420    5-4-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0421    5-4-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0422    5-4-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0423    5-4-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0424    5-4-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0425    5-4-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0426    5-4-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0428    5-18-2005   TSO Table II
05-0429    5-18-2005   TSO Table II
05-0431    5-18-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0433    6-1-2005    TSO Table II
05-0434    6-1-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0435    6-1-2005    TSO Table II
05-0436    6-1-2005    TSO Table II
05-0439    6-15-2005   TSO Table XIV
05-0441    6-15-2005   TSO Table III
05-0443    6-15-2005   TSO Table XIV
05-0444    6-15-2005   TSO Table II
05-0445    6-15-2005   TSO Table II
05-0446    6-15-2005   TSO Table II
05-0447    6-15-2005   TSO Table II
05-0448    7-6-2005    TSO Table II
05-0450    7-6-2005    TSO Table XIV
05-0452    7-6-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0454    7-6-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0455    7-20-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0456    8-3-2005    TSO Table II
05-0457    8-3-2005    TSO Table II
05-0458    8-3-2005    TSO Table II
05-0460    8-3-2005    TSO Table II
05-0466    8-23-2005   TSO Table II
05-0467    8-23-2005   TSO Table II
05-0468    8-23-2005   TSO Table II
05-0469    8-23-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0464    9-7-2005    TSO Table XIV
05-0465    9-7-2005    TSO Table XIV
05-0470    9-7-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0472    9-7-2005    TSO Table XIV
05-0473    9-7-2005    TSO Table XVI
05-0474    9-7-2005    TSO Table II
05-0475    9-7-2005    TSO Table II
05-0476    9-7-2005    TSO Table II
05-0477    9-21-2005   TSO Table XIV
05-0478    9-21-2005   TSO Table XIV
05-0482    9-21-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0483    10-5-2005   TSO Table II
05-0485    10-5-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0487    10-19-2005  TSO Table XVI
05-0488    10-19-2005  TSO Table XVI
05-0489    10-19-2005  TSO Table XVI
05-0490    10-19-2005  TSO Table XVI
05-0491    10-19-2005  TSO Table XVI
05-0493    11-2-2005   TSO Table XIV
05-0494    11-2-2005   TSO Table II
05-0495    11-2-2005   TSO Table XIV
05-0497    11-2-2005   TSO Table II
05-0498    11-2-2005   TSO Table II
05-0499    11-2-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0496    11-16-2005  TSO Table XIV
05-0501    11-16-2005  TSO Table XVI
05-0502    11-16-2005  TSO Table XVI
05-0503    11-16-2005  TSO Table II
05-0504    12-7-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0507    12-7-2005   TSO Table II
05-0509    12-7-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0510    12-7-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0512    12-7-2005   TSO Table III
05-0514    12-7-2005   TSO Table XVI
05-0515    12-21-2005  TSO Table II
05-0516    12-21-2005  TSO Table II
05-0517    12-21-2005  TSO Table XVI
05-0518    12-21-2005  TSO Table II
05-0519    12-21-2005  TSO Table XVI
05-0520    1-4-2006    TSO Table II
06-0524    1-18-2006   TSO Table XVI
06-0525    1-18-2006   TSO Table XVI
06-0522    2-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0523    2-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0526    2-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0527    2-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0529    2-1-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0540    2-15-2006   TSO Table II
06-0533    3-1-2006    TSO Table XIV
06-0534    3-1-2006    TSO Table XIV
06-0541    3-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0542    3-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0543    3-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0544    3-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0545    3-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0546    3-1-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0547    3-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0549    3-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0551    3-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0552    3-15-2006   TSO Table II
06-0553    3-15-2006   TSO Table II
06-0554    3-15-2006   TSO Table II
06-0559    4-5-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0560    4-5-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0561    4-5-2006    TSO Table II
06-0562    4-5-2006    TSO Table II
06-0563    4-5-2006    TSO Table II
06-0564    4-5-2006    TSO Table II
06-0566    4-5-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0558    4-15-2006   TSO Table II
06-0567    4-19-2006   TSO Table II
06-0570    4-19-2006   TSO Table XVI
06-0572    4-19-2006   TSO Table II
06-0574    5-3-2006    TSO Table XIV
06-0575    5-3-2006    TSO Table II
06-0576    5-3-2006    TSO Table II
06-0577    5-3-2006    TSO Table II
06-0589    5-3-2006    TSO Table II
06-0580    5-17-2006   TSO Table XIV
06-0581    5-17-2006   TSO Table II
06-0582    5-17-2006   TSO Table VI
06-0583    5-17-2006   TSO Table XVI
06-0586    5-17-2006   TSO Table II
06-0587    5-17-2006   TSO Table XVI
06-0588    5-17-2006   TSO Table II
06-0591    6-7-2006    TSO Table II
06-0592    6-7-2006    TSO Table II
06-0593    6-7-2006    TSO Table II
06-0594    6-7-2006    TSO Table II
06-0595    6-7-2006    TSO Table II
06-0596    6-7-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0597    6-7-2006    TSO Table II
06-0599    6-7-2006    TSO Table II
06-0600    6-7-2006    TSO Table II
06-0601    6-7-2006    TSO Table II
06-0602    6-7-2006    TSO Table II
06-0604    6-21-2006   TSO Table II
06-0606    6-21-2006   TSO Table II
06-0607    6-21-2006   TSO Table II
06-0608    7-5-2006    TSO Table XIV
06-0609    7-5-2006    TSO Table XIV
06-0610    7-5-2006    TSO Table XIV
06-0612    7-5-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0613    7-5-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0614    7-5-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0615    7-5-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0616    7-5-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0617    7-19-2006   TSO Table II
06-0619    7-19-2006   TSO Table II
06-0622    7-19-2006   TSO Table II
06-0624    8-2-2006    TSO Table II
06-0627    8-2-2006    TSO Table II
06-0631    8-16-2006   TSO Table XIV
06-0625    8-16-2006   TSO Table II
06-0634    8-16-2006   TSO Table V
06-0635    8-16-2006   TSO Table II
06-0636    8-16-2006   TSO Table V
06-0638    9-6-2006    TSO Table II
06-0642    9-6-2006    TSO Table II
06-0643    9-6-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0644    9-6-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0645    9-6-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0646    9-6-2006    TSO Table XVI
06-0647    9-6-2006    TSO Table II
06-0640    9-20-2006   TSO Table XIV
06-0648    9-20-2006   TSO Table XIV
06-0649    9-20-2006   TSO Table XVI
06-0641    10-18-2006  TSO Table XIV
06-0650    10-18-2006  TSO Table XIV
06-0651    10-18-2006  TSO Table XIV
06-0652    10-18-2006  TSO Table II
06-0653    10-18-2006  TSO Table II
06-0654    10-18-2006  TSO Table II
06-0655    10-18-2006  TSO Table XVI
06-0656    10-18-2006  TSO Table XVI
06-0657    10-18-2006  TSO Table XVI
06-0620    11-1-2006   TSO Table XVI
06-0660    11-1-2006   TSO Table XVI
06-0661    11-1-2006   TSO Table XVI
06-0664    11-15-2006  TSO Table XVI
06-0665    11-15-2006  TSO Table XVI
06-0666    11-15-2006  TSO Table II
06-0667    11-15-2006  TSO Table II
06-0668    11-15-2006  TSO Table XVI
06-0669    11-15-2006  TSO Table II
06-0670    12-6-2006   TSO Table II
06-0671    12-6-2006   TSO Table II
06-0673    12-6-2006   TSO Table II
06-0679    12-6-2006   TSO Table XVI
06-0680    12-6-2006   TSO Table II
06-0681    12-6-2006   TSO Table II
06-0711    1-17-2007   TSO Table XIV
07-0709    1-17-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0713    1-17-2007   TSO Table II
07-0716    2-7-2007    TSO Table II
07-0718    2-7-2007    TSO Table II
07-0719    2-21-2007   TSO Table II
2184-97    2-26-2007   TSO Table XIV
07-0721    3-7-2007    TSO Table II
07-0722    3-7-2007    TSO Table II
07-0723    3-7-2007    TSO Table II
07-0724    3-7-2007    TSO Table II
07-0728    3-7-2007    TSO Table II
07-0729    3-21-2007   TSO Table II
07-0730    3-21-2007   TSO Table II
07-0732    3-21-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0734    4-4-2007    TSO Table II
07-0735    4-4-2007    TSO Table II
07-0737    4-4-2007    TSO Table II
07-0738    4-4-2007    TSO Table II
07-0739    4-4-2007    TSO Table II
07-0740    4-4-2007    TSO Table II
07-0736    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0742    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0743    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0744    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0745    4-18-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0747    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0748    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0749    4-18-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0750    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0751    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0752    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0754    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0756    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0758    4-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0762    5-2-2007    TSO Table II
07-0763    5-2-2007    TSO Table XVI
07-0765    5-2-2007    TSO Table XVI
07-0766    5-2-2007    TSO Table II
07-0767    5-2-2007    TSO Table XVI
07-0769    5-2-2007    TSO Table II
07-0770    5-2-2007    TSO Table II
07-0771    5-2-2007    TSO Table II
07-0774    5-16-2007   TSO Table XIV
07-0776    5-16-2007   TSO Table II
07-0778    5-16-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0779    5-16-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0780    5-16-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0782    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0783    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0784    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0785    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0787    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0788    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0789    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0790    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0791    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0792    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0793    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0794    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0795    6-6-2007    TSO Table II
07-0797    6-20-2007   TSO Table II
07-0799    6-20-2007   TSO Table II
07-0800    6-20-2007   TSO Table II
07-0801    6-20-2007   TSO Table II
07-0802    6-20-2007   TSO Table II
07-0803    6-20-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0804    6-20-2007   TSO Table II
07-0805    7-18-2007   TSO Table XIV
07-0806    7-18-2007   TSO Table V
07-0807    7-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0808    7-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0809    7-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0810    7-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0811    7-18-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0812    7-18-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0813    7-18-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0814    7-18-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0815    8-1-2007    TSO Table II
07-0816    8-1-2007    TSO Table II
07-0817    8-1-2007    TSO Table II
07-0818    8-1-2007    TSO Table XVI
07-0819    8-1-2007    TSO Table V
07-0820    8-1-2007    TSO Table II
07-0821    8-1-2007    TSO Table II
07-0822    8-1-2007    TSO Table II
07-0823    8-1-2007    TSO Table II
07-0824    8-15-2007   TSO Table II
07-0825    8-15-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0826    8-15-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0827    8-15-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0828    8-15-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0829    8-15-2007   TSO Table V
07-0830    8-15-2007   TSO Table II
07-0831    9-5-2007    TSO Table II
07-0832    9-5-2007    TSO Table II
07-0833    9-5-2007    TSO Table V
07-0834    9-5-2007    TSO Table XVI
07-0835    9-5-2007    TSO Table XVI
07-0837    9-19-2007   TSO Table II
07-0842    9-19-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0845    9-19-2007   TSO Table II
07-0847    10-3-2007   TSO Table II
07-0849    10-3-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0850    10-3-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0851    10-3-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0852    10-3-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0853    10-3-2007   TSO Table II
07-0839    10-17-2007  TSO Table II
07-0855    10-17-2007  TSO Table II
07-0856    10-17-2007  TSO Table II
07-0857    10-17-2007  TSO Table XVI
07-0858    10-17-2007  TSO Table II
07-0859    10-17-2007  TSO Table V
07-0860    10-17-2007  TSO Table II
07-0861    10-17-2007  TSO Table II
-          11-7-2007   TSO Table V
07-0862    11-7-2007   TSO Table II
07-0864    11-7-2007   TSO Table II
07-0866    11-7-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0867    11-7-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0869    11-7-2007   TSO Table II
07-0870    11-7-2007   TSO Table II
07-0871    11-7-2007   TSO Table II
07-0872    11-21-2007  TSO Table XVI
07-0874    11-21-2007  TSO Table II
07-0879    12-5-2007   TSO Table XVI
07-0882    12-19-2007  TSO Table XIV
07-0883    12-19-2007  TSO Table XIV
07-0884    12-19-2007  TSO Table II
07-0887    12-19-2007  TSO Table II
07-0888    12-19-2007  TSO Table II
07-0885    1-16-2008   TSO Table II
07-0889    1-16-2008   TSO Table XIV
07-0890    1-16-2008   TSO Table XIV
07-0891    1-16-2008   TSO Table XIV
07-0894    1-16-2008   TSO Table II
08-0895    1-16-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-0896    2-6-2008    TSO Table XIV
08-0897    2-6-2008    TSO Table XIV
08-0899    2-6-2008    TSO Table II
08-0900    2-6-2008    TSO Table II
08-0901    2-6-2008    TSO Table II
08-0902    2-6-2008    TSO Table XVI
08-0903    2-20-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-0904    2-20-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-0905    2-20-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-0906    2-20-2008   TSO Table II
08-0907    3-5-2008    TSO Table II
08-0908    3-5-2008    TSO Table II
08-0909    3-5-2008    TSO Table II
08-0911    3-5-2008    TSO Table II
08-0913    3-19-2008   TSO Table II
08-0915    3-19-2008   TSO Table II
08-0918    4-2-2008    TSO Table XVI
08-0923    4-2-2008    TSO Table II
08-0924    4-2-2008    TSO Table II
08-0925    4-2-2008    TSO Table II
08-0926    4-16-2008   TSO Table XIV
08-0927    4-16-2008   TSO Table II
08-0928    4-16-2008   TSO Table II
08-0929    4-16-2008   TSO Table II
08-0936    4-16-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-0937    4-16-2008   TSO Table II
08-0938    4-16-2008   TSO Table II
08-0939    4-16-2008   TSO Table II
-          5-7-2008    TSO Table II
-          5-7-2008    TSO Table II
-          5-7-2008    TSO Table II
-          5-7-2008    TSO Table II
08-0943    5-7-2008    TSO Table II
08-0944    5-7-2008    TSO Table II
08-0945    5-7-2008    TSO Table II
08-0946    5-7-2008    TSO Table II
08-0956    5-7-2008    TSO Table II
08-0957    5-7-2008    TSO Table II
08-0959    5-21-2008   TSO Table II
08-0961    5-21-2008   TSO Table II
08-0962    5-21-2008   TSO Table II
08-0963    6-4-2008    TSO Table II
-          6-18-2008   TSO Table VI
08-0965    6-18-2008   TSO Table XIV
08-0966    6-18-2008   TSO Table XIV
08-0968    6-18-2008   TSO Table II
08-0970    6-18-2008   TSO Table II
08-0971    6-18-2008   TSO Table II
08-0973    6-18-2008   TSO Table II
08-0975    7-2-2008    TSO Table XVI
08-0977    7-2-2008    TSO Table II
08-0978    7-16-2008   TSO Table V
08-0979    7-16-2008   TSO Table XIV
08-0980    7-16-2008   TSO Table XIV
08-0981    7-16-2008   TSO Table XIV
08-0982    7-16-2008   TSO Table II
08-0984    7-16-2008   TSO Table VI
08-0985    7-16-2008   TSO Table II
08-0986    7-16-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-0987    7-16-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-0988    7-16-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-0989    7-16-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-0990    8-6-2008    TSO Table II
08-0991    8-6-2008    TSO Table II
08-0992    8-6-2008    TSO Table VI
08-0993    8-6-2008    TSO Table XVI
08-0994    8-6-2008    TSO Table II
08-0996    8-6-2008    TSO Table II
08-0997    8-20-2008   TSO Table XIV
08-0998    8-20-2008   TSO Table XIV
08-0999    8-20-2008   TSO Table II
08-1000    8-20-2008   TSO Table II
08-1002    8-20-2008   TSO Table II
08-1003    8-20-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-1004    8-20-2008   TSO Table II
08-1005    9-3-2008    TSO Table II
08-1006    9-3-2008    TSO Table V
08-1007    9-3-2008    TSO Table II
08-1008    9-3-2008    TSO Table II
08-1011    9-3-2008    TSO Table II
08-1013    9-3-2008    TSO Table II
08-1012    9-17-2008   TSO Table II
08-1014    9-17-2008   TSO Table XIV
08-1016    9-17-2008   TSO Table II
08-1017    10-1-2008   TSO Table II
08-1018    10-1-2008   TSO Table V
08-1019    10-1-2008   TSO Table V
08-1021    10-1-2008   TSO Table II
08-1022    10-1-2008   TSO Table II
08-1023    10-1-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-1024    10-1-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-1025    10-1-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-1026    10-1-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-1027    10-1-2008   TSO Table II
08-1028    10-1-2008   TSO Table II
08-1030    10-1-2008   TSO Table II
08-1031    10-1-2008   TSO Table II
08-1032    10-15-2008  TSO Table II
08-1033    10-15-2008  TSO Table II
08-1035    10-15-2008  TSO Table II
08-1038    11-5-2008   TSO Table II
08-1043    11-5-2008   TSO Table II
08-1044    11-5-2008   TSO Table II
08-1045    11-5-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-1046    11-5-2008   TSO Table VI
08-1047    11-5-2008   TSO Table II
08-1048    11-5-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-1049    11-5-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-1050    11-5-2008   TSO Table II
08-1051    11-5-2008   TSO Table II
08-1052    11-5-2008   TSO Table II.
08-1053    11-5-2008   TSO Table II
08-1054    11-19-2008  TSO Table II
08-1055    11-19-2008  TSO Table II
08-1059    11-19-2008  TSO Table II
08-1060    11-19-2008  TSO Table II
08-1063    12-3-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-1064    12-3-2008   TSO Table XVI
08-1065    12-3-2008   TSO Table II
08-1066    12-17-2008  TSO Table XIV
08-1067    12-17-2008  TSO Table XIV
08-1069    12-17-2008  TSO Table XIV
08-1070    12-17-2008  TSO Table XIV
08-1071    12-17-2008  TSO Table XVI
09-1077    1-21-2009   TSO Table II
09-1078    1-21-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1079    1-21-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1080    1-21-2009   TSO Table II
09-1082    2-4-2009    TSO Table II
09-1083    2-4-2009    TSO Table II
09-1084    2-4-2009    TSO Table II
09-1087    2-18-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1088    2-18-2009   TSO Table VII
09-1092    2-18-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1093    2-18-2009   TSO Table II
09-1085    3-4-2009    TSO Table II
09-1096    3-4-2009    TSO Table II
09-1097    3-4-2009    TSO Table II
09-1100    3-18-2009   TSO Table II
09-1101    3-18-2009   TSO Table II
09-1102    3-18-2009   TSO Table II
09-1103    3-18-2009   TSO Table II
09-1104    3-24-2009   TSO Table II
09-1099    4-1-2009    TSO Table II
09-1106    4-1-2009    TSO Table II
09-1107    4-1-2009    TSO Table II
09-1108    4-1-2009    TSO Table V
09-1109    4-15-2009   TSO Table II
09-1110    4-15-2009   TSO Table II
09-1111    4-15-2009   TSO Table II
09-1112    4-15-2009   TSO Table II
09-1115    4-15-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1117    4-15-2009   TSO Table II
09-1119    4-15-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1120    5-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-1122    5-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-1123    5-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-1124    5-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-1126    5-20-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1131    5-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-1136    5-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-1137    5-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-1138    5-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-1139    5-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-1141    5-20-2009   TSO Table V
09-1143    5-20-2009   TSO Table II
09-1146    6-3-2009    TSO Table II
09-1148    6-17-2009   TSO Table II
09-1149    6-17-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1150    6-17-2009   TSO Table II
09-1151    6-17-2009   TSO Table II
09-1152    6-17-2009   TSO Table V
09-1153    6-17-2009   TSO Table II
09-1154    7-1-2009    TSO Table II
09-1155    7-1-2009    TSO Table XVI
09-1156    7-1-2009    TSO Table II
09-1158    7-15-2009   TSO Table XIV
09-1159    7-15-2009   TSO Table II
09-1161    7-15-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1163    7-15-2009   TSO Table II
09-1164    7-15-2009   TSO Table II
09-1165    7-15-2009   TSO Table II
09-1162    8-5-2009    TSO Table II
09-1166    8-5-2009    TSO Table XVI
09-1169    8-5-2009    TSO Table II
09-1170    8-5-2009    TSO Table II
09-1171    8-5-2009    TSO Table II
09-1172    8-5-2009    TSO Table XVI
09-1173    8-5-2009    TSO Table II
09-1174    8-5-2009    TSO Table II
09-1175    8-5-2009    TSO Table II
09-1178    8-19-2009   TSO Table VI
09-1179    8-19-2009   TSO Table VI
09-1180    8-19-2009   TSO Table II
09-1181    9-2-2009    TSO Table XIV
09-1182    9-2-2009    TSO Table II
09-1185    9-16-2009   TSO Table II
09-1187    9-16-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1188    9-16-2009   TSO Table II
09-1189    10-7-2009   TSO Table III
09-1191    10-7-2009   TSO Table II
09-1192    10-7-2009   TSO Table II
09-1193    10-7-2009   TSO Table II
09-1195    10-7-2009   TSO Table II
09-1196    10-7-2009   TSO Table II
09-1197    10-21-2009  TSO Table II
09-1198    10-21-2009  TSO Table II
09-1205    11-4-2009   TSO Table II
09-1206    11-4-2009   TSO Table II
09-1201    11-18-2009  TSO Table XIV
09-1207    11-18-2009  TSO Table XIV
09-1208    11-18-2009  TSO Table II
09-1211    11-18-2009  TSO Table II
09-1212    11-18-2009  TSO Table II
09-1214    11-18-2009  TSO Table II
09-1215    12-2-2009   TSO Table II
09-1216    12-2-2009   TSO Table XVI
09-1217    12-16-2009  TSO Table II
09-1218    1-6-2010    TSO Table II
09-1220    1-6-2010    TSO Table II
09-1219    1-20-2010   TSO Table II
10-1221    1-20-2010   TSO Table II
10-1222    1-20-2010   TSO Table II
10-1223    1-20-2010   TSO Table II
10-1224    1-20-2010   TSO Table II
09-1204    2-3-2010    TSO Table II
10-1226    2-17-2010   TSO Table II
10-1228    2-17-2010   TSO Table II
10-1229    2-17-2010   TSO Table XVI
10-1230    2-24-2010   37.155
10-1231    3-3-2010    TSO Table II
10-1232    3-3-2010    TSO Table II
10-1233    3-3-2010    TSO Table II
10-1235    3-17-2010   TSO Table VI
10-1236    3-17-2010   TSO Table II
10-1238    3-17-2010   TSO Table XVI
10-1239    3-17-2010   TSO Table II
10-1240    3-17-2010   TSO Table II
10-1242    4-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1246    4-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1249    4-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1250    4-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1251    4-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1252    4-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1254    4-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1247    4-7-2010    TSO Table XVI
10-1257    4-21-2010   TSO Table XVI
10-1258    4-21-2010   TSO Table XVI
10-1259    4-21-2010   TSO Table II
10-1261    5-5-2010    TSO Table II
10-1269    5-5-2010    TSO Table II
10-1270    5-5-2010    TSO Table II
10-1271    5-5-2010    TSO Table II
10-1274    5-19-2010   TSO Table XVI
10-1276    5-19-2010   TSO Table XVI
10-1277    5-19-2010   TSO Table II
10-1278    5-19-2010   TSO Table II
10-1279    5-19-2010   TSO Table II
10-1280    5-19-2010   TSO Table II
10-1281    5-19-2010   TSO Table II
10-1283    6-9-2010    TSO Table II
10-1284    6-9-2010    TSO Table II
10-1285    6-9-2010    TSO Table II
10-1286    6-9-2010    TSO Table II
10-1290    6-9-2010    TSO Table V
10-1292    6-9-2010    TSO Table XIV
10-1293    6-9-2010    TSO Table II
10-1295    6-9-2010    TSO Table II
10-1296    6-9-2010    TSO Table II
10-1297    6-9-2010    TSO Table II
10-1298    6-9-2010    TSO Table II
10-1282    7-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1300    7-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1301    7-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1302    7-7-2010    TSO Table II
10-1303    7-21-2010   TSO Table II
10-1304    7-21-2010   TSO Table VI
10-1305    7-21-2010   TSO Table VI
10-1306    7-21-2010   TSO Table VI
10-1310    8-4-2010    TSO Table II
10-1311    8-4-2010    TSO Table II
10-1314    8-4-2010    TSO Table II
10-1315    8-4-2010    TSO Table II
10-1316    8-18-2010   TSO Table II
10-1317    8-18-2010   TSO Table II
10-1319    9-1-2010    TSO Table VI
10-1321    9-1-2010    TSO Table II
10-1323    9-15-2010   TSO Table II
10-1324    9-15-2010   TSO Table II
10-1325    9-15-2010   TSO Table V
10-1327    9-15-2010   TSO Table II
10-1328    9-15-2010   TSO Table II
10-1330    9-15-2010   TSO Table II
10-1331    9-15-2010   TSO Table II
10-1332    9-15-2010   TSO Table II
10-1265    10-6-2010   34.28
10-1333    10-6-2010   TSO Table II
10-1334    10-6-2010   TSO Table II
10-1335    10-6-2010   TSO Table XVI
10-1336    10-6-2010   TSO Table XVI
10-1337    10-6-2010   TSO Table XVI
10-1338    10-6-2010   TSO Table XVI
10-1339    10-6-2010   TSO Table II
10-1340    10-6-2010   TSO Table II
10-1343    10-20-2010  TSO Table II
10-1344    10-20-2010  TSO Table II
10-1346    11-3-2010   TSO Table II
10-1347    11-3-2010   TSO Table II
10-1355    11-17-2010  TSO Table XIV
10-1356    11-17-2010  TSO Table V
10-1357    11-17-2010  TSO Table XIV
10-1353    12-1-2010   TSO Table VI
11-1363    1-5-2011    TSO Table II
11-1364    1-5-2011    TSO Table II
11-1365    1-19-2011   TSO Table II
11-1366    1-19-2011   TSO Table II
11-1367    1-19-2011   TSO Table II
11-1368    2-9-2011    TSO Table II
11-1370    2-9-2011    TSO Table II
11-1371    2-9-2011    TSO Table II
11-1373    2-9-2011    TSO Table XVI
11-1379    3-2-2011    TSO Table II
11-1380    3-2-2011    TSO Table II
11-1381    3-2-2011    TSO Table II
11-1382    3-2-2011    TSO Table II
11-1383    3-2-2011    TSO Table II
11-1385    3-2-2011    TSO Table XVI
11-1386    3-2-2011    TSO Table XVI
11-1387    3-2-2011    TSO Table XVI
11-1388    3-2-2011    TSO Table II
11-1389    3-2-2011    TSO Table II
11-1390    3-2-2011    TSO Table II
11-1392    3-16-2011   TSO Table II
11-1393    3-16-2011   TSO Table II
11-1394    3-16-2011   TSO Table II
11-1395    3-16-2011   TSO Table II
11-1400    4-6-2011    TSO Table XVI
11-1401    4-6-2011    TSO Table XVI
11-1402    4-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1403    4-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1405    4-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1407    4-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1408    4-6-2011    TSO Table VII
11-1409    4-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1411    4-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1413    4-20-2011   TSO Table II
11-1416    4-20-2011   TSO Table II
11-1417    4-20-2011   TSO Table II
11-1421    5-18-2011   TSO Table II
11-1422    5-18-2011   TSO Table II
11-1423    5-18-2011   TSO Table II
11-1424    5-18-2011   TSO Table II
11-1425    6-1-2011    TSO Table II
11-1426    6-1-2011    TSO Table II
11-1427    6-1-2011    TSO Table II
11-1428    6-15-2011   TSO Table II
11-1429    6-15-2011   TSO Table II
11-1430    6-15-2011   TSO Table II
11-1431    7-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1432    7-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1433    7-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1434    7-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1435    7-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1436    7-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1441    7-6-2011    TSO Table II
11-1442    7-20-2011   TSO Table XIV
11-1444    7-20-2011   TSO Table II
11-1445    7-20-2011   TSO Table II
11-1452    8-3-2011    TSO Table II
11-1453    8-3-2011    TSO Table II
11-1455    8-17-2011   TSO Table II
11-1448    9-7-2011    TSO Table II
11-1459    9-7-2011    TSO Table II
11-1460    9-7-2011    TSO Table II
11-1462    10-5-2011   TSO Table II
11-1468    10-19-2011  TSO Table II
11-1470    10-19-2011  TSO Table II
11-1461    11-2-2011   TSO Table II
11-1471    11-2-2011   TSO Table II
11-1473    11-16-2011  TSO Table II
11-1474    11-16-2011  TSO Table II
11-1476    12-7-2011   TSO Table II
11-1478    12-21-2011  TSO Table II
11-1479    12-21-2011  TSO Table XIV
11-1480    12-21-2011  TSO Table II
11-1481    12-21-2011  TSO Table II
11-1482    12-21-2011  TSO Table II
11-1484    12-21-2011  TSO Table II
12-1486    1-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1490    2-15-2012   TSO Table II
12-1491    2-15-2012   TSO Table II
12-1492    2-15-2012   TSO Table II
12-1494    3-7-2012    TSO Table II
12-1496    3-7-2012    TSO Table II
12-1497    3-7-2012    TSO Table II
12-1498    3-7-2012    TSO Table VI
12-1500    3-21-2012   TSO Table II
12-1501    3-21-2012   TSO Table II
12-1502    4-4-2012    TSO Table II
12-1505    4-4-2012    TSO Table II
12-1508    4-4-2012    TSO Table II
12-1509    4-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1510    4-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1511    4-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1514    4-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1516    4-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1517    4-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1518    4-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1519    4-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1521    4-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1523    5-2-2012    39.075—
                       39.077
12-1524    5-2-2012    TSO Table II 
12-1527    5-2-2012    TSO Table II
12-1529    5-16-2012   TSO Table II
12-1532    5-16-2012   TSO Table II
12-1534    6-6-2012    TSO Table II
12-1535    6-6-2012    TSO Table II
12-1537    6-20-2012   TSO Table II
12-1538    6-20-2012   TSO Table II
12-1539    6-20-2012   TSO Table II
12-1540    6-20-2012   TSO Table II
12-1541    6-20-2012   TSO Table II
12-1542    6-20-2012   TSO Table II
12-1543    6-20-2012   TSO Table VI
12-1545    7-11-2012   TSO Table II
12-1546    7-11-2012   TSO Table II
12-1547    7-11-2012   TSO Table II
12-1552    7-11-2012   TSO Table II
12-1544    7-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1553    7-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1555    7-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1556    7-18-2012   TSO Table II
12-1557    8-1-2012    TSO Table II
12-1559    8-1-2012    TSO Table II
12-1560    8-1-2012    TSO Table II
12-1561    8-1-2012    TSO Table II
12-1562    8-1-2012    TSO Table II
12-1564    8-1-2012    TSO Table II
12-1581    9-1-2012    TSO Table II
12-1565    9-5-2012    TSO Table II
12-1567    9-5-2012    TSO Table XIV
12-1568    9-5-2012    TSO Table XIV
12-1569    9-5-2012    TSO Table XIV
12-1570    9-5-2012    TSO Table II
12-1571    9-5-2012    TSO Table II
12-1572    9-5-2012    TSO Table II
12-1573    9-5-2012    TSO Table II
12-1574    9-5-2012    TSO Table II
12-1575    9-5-2012    TSO Table II
12-1576    9-5-2012    TSO Table II
12-1578    9-5-2012    TSO Table XVI
12-1579    9-5-2012    TSO Table II
12-1580    9-5-2012    TSO Table II
12-1588    9-17-2012   TSO Table VI
12-1582    9-19-2012   TSO Table II
12-1585    9-19-2012   TSO Table II
12-1586    10-2-2012   TSO Table IX
12-1589    10-2-2012   TSO Table II
12-1590    10-2-2012   TSO Table II
12-1593    10-17-2012  TSO Table II
12-1607    11-5-2012   TSO Table XVI
12-1595    11-7-2012   TSO Table II
12-1596    11-7-2012   TSO Table II
12-1597    11-7-2012   TSO Table II
12-1599    11-7-2012   TSO Table II
12-1600    11-7-2012   TSO Table II
12-1601    11-7-2012   TSO Table II
12-1602    11-7-2012   TSO Table II
12-1603    12-5-2012   TSO Table II
12-1605    12-5-2012   TSO Table VI
12-1609    12-5-2012   TSO Table II
12-1611    12-19-2012  TSO Table II
12-1612    12-19-2012  TSO Table II
12-1613    12-19-2012  TSO Table II
13-1615    1-16-2013   TSO Table II
13-1619    2-6-2013    TSO Table II
13-1621    2-6-2013    TSO Table II
13-1622    2-20-2013   TSO Table II
13-1623    2-20-2013   TSO Table II
13-1624    2-20-2013   TSO Table XVI
13-1628    2-20-2013   TSO Table II
13-1629    3-6-2013    TSO Table II
13-1634    3-20-2013   TSO Table II
13-1636    3-20-2013   TSO Table II
13-1639    3-20-2013   TSO Table II
13-1640    3-20-2013   TSO Table II
13-1641    4-3-2013    TSO Table II
13-1642    4-3-2013    TSO Table II
13-1643    4-3-2013    TSO Table II
13-1644    4-17-2013   TSO Table II
13-1651    5-1-2013    TSO Table II
13-1650    5-15-2013   TSO Table V
13-1653    5-15-2013   TSO Table II
13-1656    5-15-2013   TSO Table II
13-1659    5-15-2013   TSO Table II
13-1660    5-15-2013   TSO Table II
13-1662    5-15-2013   TSO Table II
13-1665    6-5-2013    TSO Table II
13-1666    6-5-2013    TSO Table II
13-1667    6-5-2013    TSO Table II
13-1668    6-5-2013    TSO Table II
13-1669    6-5-2013    TSO Table II
13-1670    6-5-2013    TSO Table II
13-1672    6-5-2013    TSO Table II
13-1673    6-5-2013    TSO Table II
13-1674    6-5-2013    TSO Table II
13-1675    6-5-2013    TSO Table II
13-1676    6-17-2013   TSO Table II
13-1677    6-17-2013   TSO Table II
13-1680    7-2-2013    TSO Table II
13-1681    7-17-2013   TSO Table II
13-1686    8-7-2013    TSO Table II
13-1691    8-7-2013    TSO Table II
13-1694    8-7-2013    TSO Table II
13-1682    8-21-2013   TSO Table II
13-1696    8-21-2013   TSO Table II
13-1699    8-21-2013   TSO Table II 
13-1701    9-4-2013    TSO Table II
13-1705    9-18-2013   TSO Table II
13-1712    10-9-2013   TSO Table XIV
13-1714    10-9-2013   TSO Table II
13-1715    10-9-2013   TSO Table II
13-1716    10-9-2013   TSO Table II
13-1717    10-9-2013   TSO Table II
13-1718    10-9-2013   TSO Table II
13-1713    10-16-2013  TSO Table II
13-1719    10-16-2013  TSO Table II
13-1720    10-16-2013  TSO Table II
13-1721    10-16-2013  TSO Table II
13-1727    11-6-2013   37.110
13-1730    11-20-2013  TSO Table XIV
13-1731    11-20-2013  TSO Table XIV
13-1732    11-20-2013  TSO Table XIV
13-1733    11-20-2013  TSO Table II
13-1740    11-20-2013  TSO Table II
13-1741    11-20-2013  TSO Table II
13-1743    12-4-2013   TSO Table II
13-1744    12-4-2013   TSO Table II
13-1742    12-18-2013  TSO Table II
13-1750    12-18-2013  TSO Table XIV
13-1751    12-18-2013  TSO Table XIV
13-1752    12-18-2013  TSO Table II
13-1753    12-18-2013  TSO Table II
13-1754    12-18-2013  TSO Table II
13-1755    12-18-2013  TSO Table II
13-1757    12-18-2013  TSO Table II
13-1759    12-18-2013  TSO Table VI
13-1760    12-18-2013  TSO Table II
13-1761    12-18-2013  TSO Table II
13-1758    1-15-2014   TSO Table II
14-1762    1-15-2014   TSO Table II
14-1764    1-15-2014   TSO Table II
14-1765    1-15-2014   TSO Table II
14-1766    1-15-2014   TSO Table II
14-1767    1-15-2014   TSO Table II
14-1768    2-5-2014    TSO Table VI
14-1769    2-5-2014    TSO Table II
14-1770    2-5-2014    TSO Table II
14-1771    2-5-2014    TSO Table II
14-1774    2-5-2014    TSO Table II
14-1776    2-5-2014    TSO Table II
14-1777    2-19-2014   TSO Table VI
14-1778    2-19-2014   TSO Table II
14-1779    2-19-2014   TSO Table II
14-1781    2-19-2014   TSO Table II
14-1782    2-19-2014   TSO Table II
14-1783    3-5-2014    TSO Table XVI
14-1784    3-19-2014   TSO Table II
14-1787    3-19-2014   TSO Table II
13-1711    4-2-2014    TSO Table XIV
14-1789    4-2-2014    TSO Table II
14-1792    4-2-2014    TSO Table II
14-1798    4-16-2014   TSO Table II
14-1799    4-16-2014   TSO Table II
14-1800    4-16-2014   TSO Table II
14-1801    4-16-2014   TSO Table II
14-1802    4-16-2014   TSO Table II
14-1805    4-16-2014   TSO Table II
14-1806    4-16-2014   TSO Table II
14-1809    5-7-2014    TSO Table X
14-1810    5-7-2014    TSO Table XIV
14-1811    5-7-2014    TSO Table XIV
14-1812    5-7-2014    TSO Table II
14-1813    5-7-2014    TSO Table II
14-1814    5-7-2014    TSO Table II
14-1815    5-7-2014    TSO Table II
14-1817    5-7-2014    TSO Table II
14-1819    5-7-2014    TSO Table II
14-1820    5-7-2014    TSO Table II
14-1821    5-7-2014    TSO Table II
14-1827    5-21-2014   TSO Table II
14-1828    5-21-2014   TSO Table V
14-1831    5-21-2014   TSO Table II
14-1833    6-4-2014    TSO Table II
14-1834    6-4-2014    TSO Table II
14-1837    6-18-2014   TSO Table II
14-1839    7-2-2014    TSO Table II
14-1840    7-16-2014   TSO Table II
14-1841    7-16-2014   TSO Table II
14-1842    8-6-2014    TSO Table II
14-1844    8-6-2014    TSO Table II
14-1845    8-6-2014    TSO Table II
14-1849    8-6-2014    TSO Table II
14-1850    8-20-2014   TSO Table XIV
14-1851    8-20-2014   TSO Table XIV
14-1854    8-20-2014   TSO Table II
14-1855    8-20-2014   TSO Table II
14-1856    8-20-2014   TSO Table II
14-1859    9-3-2014    TSO Table XIV
14-1860    9-3-2014    TSO Table XIV
14-1861    9-3-2014    TSO Table II
14-1863    9-3-2014    TSO Table II
14-1864    9-3-2014    TSO Table II
14-1865    9-3-2014    TSO Table II
14-1866    9-3-2014    TSO Table II
14-1867    9-3-2014    TSO Table II
14-1869    9-3-2014    TSO Table II
14-1873    9-17-2014   TSO Table II
14-1858    10-1-2014   TSO Table II
14-1874    10-1-2014   TSO Table XIV
14-1875    10-1-2014   TSO Table XIV
14-1876    10-1-2014   TSO Table II
14-1880    10-1-2014   TSO Table II
14-1882    10-15-2014  TSO Table II
14-1883    10-15-2014  TSO Table II
14-1884    10-15-2014  TSO Table II
14-1885    10-15-2014  TSO Table II
14-1881    11-5-2014   TSO Table II
14-1890    11-5-2014   TSO Table II
14-1891    11-5-2014   TSO Table II
14-1892    11-5-2014   TSO Table II
14-1893    11-5-2014   TSO Table II
14-1894    11-5-2014   TSO Table II
14-1895    11-5-2014   TSO Table II
14-1899    11-19-2014  TSO Table II
14-1900    11-19-2014  TSO Table XIV
14-1902    12-3-2014   TSO Table II
14-1904    12-17-2014  TSO Table II
15-1907    1-7-2015    TSO Table II
15-1908    1-7-2015    TSO Table II
15-1909    1-7-2015    TSO Table II
15-1912    1-7-2015    TSO Table II
15-1913    1-21-2015   TSO Table II
15-1914    1-21-2015   TSO Table II
15-1915    2-4-2015    TSO Table XIV
15-1916    2-4-2015    TSO Table II
15-1917    2-4-2015    TSO Table II
15-1919    2-4-2015    TSO Table II
15-1920    2-4-2015    TSO Table II
15-1921    2-4-2015    TSO Table II
15-1924    2-18-2015   TSO Table II
15-1926    2-18-2015   TSO Table VI
15-1928    3-4-2015    TSO Table II
15-1930    3-4-2015    TSO Table VI
15-1931    3-18-2015   TSO Table XIV
15-1932    3-18-2015   TSO Table II
15-1933    3-18-2015   TSO Table II
15-1934    3-18-2015   TSO Table II
15-1935    3-18-2015   TSO Table II
15-1936    3-18-2015   TSO Table II
15-1937    4-1-2015    TSO Table II
15-1938    4-1-2015    TSO Table II
15-1939    4-1-2015    TSO Table II
15-1941    4-1-2015    TSO Table VI
15-1942    4-1-2015    TSO Table II
15-1943    4-1-2015    TSO Table II
15-1944    4-1-2015    TSO Table II
15-1946    4-15-2015   TSO Table II
15-1947    4-15-2015   TSO Table II
15-1948    4-15-2015   TSO Table XVI
15-1949    4-15-2015   TSO Table II
15-1951    4-15-2015   TSO Table II
15-1953    5-6-2015    TSO Table XIV
15-1954    5-6-2015    TSO Table II
15-1955    5-6-2015    TSO Table II
15-1957    5-6-2015    TSO Table II
15-1960    5-6-2015    TSO Table II
15-1961    5-6-2015    TSO Table II
15-1962    5-6-2015    TSO Table II
15-1966    5-20-2015   TSO Table II
15-1967    5-20-2015   TSO Table XVI
15-1968    5-20-2015   TSO Table II
15-1964    6-3-2015    TSO Table II
15-1972    6-3-2015    TSO Table II
15-1973    6-3-2015    TSO Table II
15-1974    6-3-2015    TSO Table II
15-1975    6-3-2015    TSO Table II
15-1976    6-3-2015    TSO Table II
15-1977    6-3-2015    TSO Table II
15-1978    6-3-2015    TSO Table II
15-1980    6-3-2015    TSO Table II
15-1981    6-16-2015   TSO Table II
15-1982    7-1-2015    TSO Table II
15-1983    7-1-2015    TSO Table II
15-1984    7-1-2015    TSO Table II
15-1985    7-1-2015    TSO Table XIV
15-1986    7-1-2015    TSO Table XIV
15-1991    7-1-2015    TSO Table II
15-1992    7-15-2015   TSO Table VI
15-1996    7-15-2015   TSO Table V
15-1998    7-15-2015   TSO Table V
15-1999    7-15-2015   TSO Table II
15-2001    8-5-2015    TSO Table II
15-2002    8-5-2015    TSO Table II
15-2004    8-5-2015    TSO Table II
15-2005    8-5-2015    TSO Table II
15-2007    8-19-2015   TSO Table II
15-2009    9-2-2015    TSO Table XIV
15-2010    9-2-2015    TSO Table II
15-2011    9-2-2015    TSO Table VI
15-2012    9-2-2015    TSO Table II
15-2014    9-2-2015    TSO Table II
15-2017    9-16-2015   TSO Table II
15-2018    9-16-2015   TSO Table II
15-2021    10-5-2015   TSO Table II
15-2023    10-5-2015   TSO Table II
15-2026    10-5-2015   TSO Table II
15-2028    10-5-2015   TSO Table II
15-2029    10-5-2015   TSO Table II
15-2030    10-21-2015  TSO Table II
15-2031    10-21-2015  TSO Table II
15-2032    10-21-2015  TSO Table II
15-2033    10-21-2015  TSO Table II
15-2035    10-21-2015  TSO Table II
15-2036    10-21-2015  TSO Table II
15-2038    11-4-2015   TSO Table II
15-2039    11-4-2015   TSO Table II
15-2040    11-18-2015  TSO Table XIV
15-2041    11-18-2015  TSO Table V
15-2042    11-18-2015  TSO Table V
15-2044    11-18-2015  TSO Table II
15-2045    11-18-2015  TSO Table VI
15-2047    12-16-2015  TSO Table V
15-2050    12-23-2015  TSO Table II
15-2051    12-23-2015  TSO Table II
15-2052    12-23-2015  TSO Table II
15-2053    12-23-2015  TSO Table II
16-2054    1-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2055    2-3-2016    TSO Table II
16-2056    2-3-2016    TSO Table II
16-2057    2-3-2016    TSO Table II
16-2058    2-17-2016   TSO Table XIV
16-2059    2-17-2016   TSO Table II
16-2060    2-17-2016   TSO Table II
16-2061    2-17-2016   TSO Table II
16-2063    3-2-2016    TSO Table II
16-2064    3-2-2016    TSO Table VII
16-2068    3-16-2016   TSO Table II
16-2069    3-16-2016   TSO Table II
16-2070    3-16-2016   TSO Table II
16-2071    3-16-2016   TSO Table II
16-2072    3-16-2016   TSO Table II
16-2081    4-6-2016    TSO Table II
16-2082    4-6-2016    TSO Table II
16-2083    4-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2085    4-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2086    4-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2087    4-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2092    5-4-2016    TSO Table II
16-2093    5-4-2016    TSO Table II
16-2094    5-4-2016    TSO Table II
16-2096    5-4-2016    TSO Table II
16-2098    5-4-2016    TSO Table II
16-2099    5-18-2016   TSO Table XIV
16-2100    5-18-2016   TSO Table XIV
16-2101    5-18-2016   TSO Table XIV
16-2102    5-18-2016   TSO Table II
16-2104    5-18-2016   TSO Table II
16-2109    5-18-2016   TSO Table II
16-2110    5-18-2016   TSO Table II
16-2111    5-18-2016   TSO Table II
16-2117    5-18-2016   TSO Table II
16-2123    6-8-2016    TSO Table II
16-2124    6-8-2016    TSO Table II
16-2129    6-8-2016    TSO Table II
16-2130    6-8-2016    TSO Table II
16-2131    6-8-2016    TSO Table II
16-2132    6-8-2016    TSO Table II
16-2133    7-6-2016    TSO Table XIV
16-2134    7-6-2016    TSO Table XIV
16-2137    7-6-2016    TSO Table XIV
16-2139    7-6-2016    TSO Table II
16-2140    7-6-2016    TSO Table VI
16-2143    7-6-2016    TSO Table II
16-2144    7-6-2016    TSO Table II
16-2145    7-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2146    7-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2148    7-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2149    7-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2150    7-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2151    7-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2152    7-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2153    7-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2154    7-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2157    7-20-2016   TSO Table II
16-2158    7-20-2016   TSO Table V
16-2160    8-17-2016   TSO Table II
16-2166    8-17-2016   TSO Table II
16-2168    8-17-2016   TSO Table II
16-2170    8-17-2016   TSO Table II
16-2171    8-17-2016   TSO Table II
16-2167    9-7-2016    TSO Table XIV
16-2172    9-7-2016    TSO Table XIV
16-2173    9-7-2016    TSO Table XIV
16-2174    9-7-2016    TSO Table XIV
16-2175    9-7-2016    TSO Table XIV
16-2176    9-7-2016    TSO Table XIV
16-2180    9-7-2016    TSO Table II
16-2182    9-7-2016    TSO Table V
16-2183    9-7-2016    TSO Table VII
16-2184    9-7-2016    TSO Table V
16-2188    9-7-2016    TSO Table II
16-2191    9-21-2016   TSO Table XIV
16-2192    9-21-2016   TSO Table XIV
16-2193    9-21-2016   TSO Table XIV
16-2201    9-21-2016   TSO Table II
16-2196    10-5-2016   TSO Table II
16-2215    10-18-2016  TSO Table II
16-2216    10-18-2016  TSO Table II
16-2217    10-18-2016  TSO Table II
16-2218    10-18-2016  TSO Table II
16-2118    11-2-2016   TSO Table II
16-2220    11-2-2016   TSO Table V
16-2222    11-2-2016   TSO Table II
16-2225    11-16-2016  TSO Table II
16-2226    11-16-2016  TSO Table XIV
16-2227    11-16-2016  TSO Table XIV
16-2228    11-16-2016  TSO Table XIV
16-2229    11-16-2016  TSO Table II
16-2230    11-16-2016  TSO Table II
16-2231    11-16-2016  TSO Table II
16-2236    12-7-2016   TSO Table II
16-2237    12-7-2016   TSO Table V
16-2238    12-7-2016   TSO Table II
16-2235    1-4-2017    TSO Table II
17-2242    1-4-2017    TSO Table II
17-2243    1-4-2017    TSO Table II
17-2246    1-4-2017    TSO Table II
17-2248    1-4-2017    TSO Table II
17-2249    1-4-2017    TSO Table II
17-2255    1-25-2017   TSO Table II
17-2256    1-25-2017   TSO Table II
17-2251    2-1-2017    TSO Table XIV
17-2252    2-1-2017    TSO Table XIV
17-2262    2-15-2017   TSO Table II
-          3-1-2017    TSO Table II
17-2264    3-1-2017    TSO Table II
17-2266    3-1-2017    TSO Table II
17-2267    3-1-2017    TSO Table II
17-2268    4-5-2017    TSO Table V
17-2269    4-5-2017    TSO Table XIV
17-2273    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2274    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2276    4-5-2017    TSO Table V
17-2277    4-5-2017    TSO Table VI
17-2278    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2279    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2280    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2281    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2282    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2283    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2284    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2285    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2287    4-5-2017    TSO Table II
17-2289    4-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2290    4-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2291    4-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2294    4-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2295    4-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2296    4-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2297    4-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2298    5-3-2017    TSO Table XIV
17-2299    5-3-2017    TSO Table XIV
17-2300    5-3-2017    TSO Table XIV
17-2301    5-3-2017    TSO Table II
17-2302    5-3-2017    TSO Table II
17-2304    5-3-2017    TSO Table II
17-2305    5-3-2017    TSO Table II
17-2306    5-3-2017    TSO Table II
17-2307    5-3-2017    TSO Table II
17-2309    5-3-2017    TSO Table II
17-2312    5-17-2017   TSO Table II
17-2314    5-17-2017   TSO Table II
17-2315    5-17-2017   TSO Table II
17-2321    6-7-2017    TSO Table II
17-2322    6-7-2017    TSO Table II
17-2323    6-7-2017    TSO Table II
17-2325    6-7-2017    TSO Table II
17-2326    6-7-2017    TSO Table II
17-2327    6-7-2017    TSO Table II
17-2328    6-7-2017    TSO Table II
17-2329    6-7-2017    TSO Table II
17-2330    6-21-2017   TSO Table II
17-2332    6-21-2017   TSO Table II
17-2333    6-21-2017   TSO Table II
17-2334    6-21-2017   TSO Table II
17-2337    6-21-2017   TSO Table II
17-2339    6-21-2017   TSO Table II
17-2319    6-25-2017   TSO Table II
17-2331    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2342    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2343    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2344    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2345    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2347    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2348    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2350    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2351    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2355    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2356    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2357    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2358    7-19-2017   TSO Table II
17-2362    8-16-2017   TSO Table II
17-2363    8-16-2017   TSO Table II
17-2364    8-16-2017   TSO Table II
17-2365    8-16-2017   TSO Table II
17-2366    8-16-2017   TSO Table II
17-2367    8-16-2017   TSO Table II
17-2368    8-16-2017   TSO Table II
17-2369    8-16-2017   TSO Table II
17-2372    9-6-2017    TSO Table II
17-2378    9-6-2017    TSO Table V
17-2381    9-20-2017   TSO Table II
17-2382    9-20-2017   TSO Table II
17-2384    9-20-2017   TSO Table II
17-2385    9-20-2017   TSO Table II
17-2396    10-4-2017   TSO Table II
17-2397    10-18-2017  TSO Table XIV
17-2398    10-18-2017  TSO Table XIV
17-2405    10-18-2017  TSO Table II
17-2406    11-1-2017   TSO Table II
17-2408    11-1-2017   TSO Table XIV
17-2410    11-1-2017   TSO Table II
17-2411    11-1-2017   TSO Table II
17-2412    11-1-2017   TSO Table II
17-2413    11-1-2017   TSO Table II
17-2414    11-1-2017   TSO Table II
17-2415    11-15-2017  TSO Table III
17-2416    11-15-2017  TSO Table II
17-2417    11-15-2017  TSO Table II
17-2418    11-15-2017  TSO Table II
17-2419    12-6-2017   TSO Table XIV
17-2420    12-6-2017   TSO Table II
17-2423    12-20-2017  TSO Table XIV
17-2425    12-20-2017  TSO Table II
17-2426    12-20-2017  TSO Table II
17-2427    12-20-2017  TSO Table II
17-2429    12-20-2017  TSO Table II
18-2432    1-17-2018   TSO Table II
18-2435    1-17-2018   TSO Table II
18-2436    2-7-2018    TSO Table II
18-2439    2-21-2018   TSO Table XIV
18-2440    2-21-2018   TSO Table XIV
18-2445    2-21-2018   TSO Table II
18-2446    2-21-2018   TSO Table II
18-2448    2-21-2018   TSO Table II
18-2449    3-7-2018    TSO Table II
18-2450    3-7-2018    TSO Table II
18-2452    3-21-2018   TSO Table II
18-2454    3-21-2018   TSO Table II
18-2455    3-21-2018   TSO Table II
18-2456    3-21-2018   TSO Table II
18-2457    3-21-2018   TSO Table II
18-2459    4-4-2018    TSO Table II
18-2460    4-4-2018    TSO Table II
18-2462    4-4-2018    TSO Table II
18-2451    4-18-2018   TSO Table XIV
18-2463    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2466    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2467    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2468    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2469    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2470    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2472    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2473    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2474    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2475    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2476    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2477    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2478    4-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2482    5-2-2018    TSO Table II
18-2483    5-2-2018    TSO Table II
18-2484    5-2-2018    TSO Table II
18-2485    5-2-2018    TSO Table II
18-2486    5-2-2018    TSO Table II
18-2488    5-2-2018    TSO Table II
18-2489    5-2-2018    TSO Table II
18-2490    5-2-2018    TSO Table II
18-2493    5-2-2018    TSO Table II
18-2494    5-2-2018    TSO Table II
18-2495    5-16-2018   TSO Table XIV
18-2496    5-16-2018   TSO Table II
18-2497    5-16-2018   TSO Table II
18-2499    5-16-2018   TSO Table II
18-2500    5-16-2018   TSO Table II
18-2501    5-16-2018   TSO Table II
18-2503    5-16-2018   TSO Table II
18-2505    6-20-2018   TSO Table II
18-2506    6-20-2018   TSO Table XIV
18-2507    6-20-2018   TSO Table II
18-2508    6-20-2018   TSO Table II
18-2509    6-20-2018   TSO Table II
18-2510    6-20-2018   TSO Table II
18-2511    6-20-2018   TSO Table XIV
18-2512    6-20-2018   TSO Table II
18-2521    6-20-2018   TSO Table II
18-2524    6-20-2018   TSO Table II
18-2525    6-20-2018   TSO Table II
18-2526    7-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2527    7-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2528    7-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2530    7-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2535    7-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2536    7-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2537    7-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2538    7-18-2018   TSO Table V
18-2540    7-18-2018   TSO Table II
18-2543    8-15-2018   TSO Table II
18-2546    8-15-2018   TSO Table II
18-2548    8-15-2018   TSO Table II
18-2552    8-15-2018   TSO Table II
18-2554    8-15-2018   TSO Table II
18-2542    9-5-2018    TSO Table V
18-2553    9-5-2018    TSO Table V
18-2563    9-5-2018    TSO Table II
18-2564    9-5-2018    TSO Table II
18-2565    9-5-2018    TSO Table II
18-2566    9-5-2018    TSO Table II
18-2567    9-5-2018    TSO Table II
18-2568    9-5-2018    TSO Table II
18-2572    9-5-2018    TSO Table II
18-2573    9-19-2018   TSO Table II
18-2577    9-19-2018   TSO Table II
18-2578    9-19-2018   TSO Table II
18-2579    9-19-2018   TSO Table II
18-2580    9-19-2018   TSO Table II
18-2583    9-19-2018   TSO Table II
18-2588    10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-2589    10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-2590    10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-2594    11-7-2018   TSO Table V
18-2600    11-7-2018   TSO Table II
18-2601    11-7-2018   TSO Table V
18-2602    11-7-2018   TSO Table II
18-2605    11-7-2018   TSO Table II
18-2606    11-7-2018   TSO Table II
18-2607    11-7-2018   TSO Table II
18-2608    12-5-2018   TSO Table III
18-2610    12-5-2018   TSO Table II
18-2612    12-5-2018   TSO Table II
18-2613    12-5-2018   TSO Table II
18-2614    12-5-2018   TSO Table II
18-2618    12-19-2018  TSO Table II
18-2619    12-19-2018  TSO Table II
18-2622    12-19-2018  TSO Table II
18-2623    1-16-2019   TSO Table II
19-2624    1-16-2019   TSO Table V
19-2627    1-16-2019   TSO Table II
19-2633    1-16-2019   TSO Table II
19-2634    1-16-2019   TSO Table VI
19-2635    2-6-2019    TSO Table II
19-2638    2-6-2019    TSO Table II
19-2639    2-6-2019    TSO Table VI
19-2641    2-6-2019    TSO Table II
19-2642    2-6-2019    TSO Table II
19-2643    2-6-2019    TSO Table II
19-2644    2-20-2019   TSO Table II
19-2645    2-20-2019   TSO Table II
19-2646    2-20-2019   TSO Table II
19-2647    3-6-2019    TSO Table XIV
19-2648    3-6-2019    TSO Table XIV
19-2649    3-6-2019    TSO Table II
19-2651    3-6-2019    TSO Table II
19-2654    3-20-2019   TSO Table II
19-2656    3-20-2019   TSO Table II
19-2657    3-20-2019   TSO Table II
19-2658    4-3-2019    TSO Table II
19-2661    4-3-2019    TSO Table II
19-2662    4-3-2019    TSO Table II
19-2668    4-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2669    4-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2673    4-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2675    4-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2677    4-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2678    4-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2674    5-1-2019    TSO Table II
19-2680    5-1-2019    TSO Table II
19-2683    5-1-2019    TSO Table II
19-2685    5-1-2019    TSO Table II
19-2686    5-1-2019    TSO Table II
19-2687    5-1-2019    TSO Table II
19-2688    5-1-2019    TSO Table II
19-2691    5-1-2019    TSO Table II
19-2700    5-15-2019   TSO Table II
19-2702    5-15-2019   TSO Table II
19-2703    5-15-2019   TSO Table II
19-2704    6-5-2019    TSO Table II
19-2707    6-5-2019    TSO Table II
19-2709    6-5-2019    TSO Table II
19-2720    6-5-2019    TSO Table II
19-2706    6-19-2019   TSO Table XIV
19-2723    6-19-2019   TSO Table II
19-2724    6-19-2019   TSO Table II
19-2726    6-19-2019   TSO Table II
19-2727    6-19-2019   TSO Table II
19-2725    7-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2731    7-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2734    7-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2735    7-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2736    7-17-2019   TSO Table II
19-2738    8-7-2019    TSO Table V
19-2739    8-7-2019    TSO Table II
19-2740    8-7-2019    TSO Table II
19-2741    8-7-2019    TSO Table II
19-2744    8-7-2019    TSO Table II
19-2745    8-7-2019    TSO Table II
19-2748    8-7-2019    TSO Table V
19-2749    8-7-2019    TSO Table II
19-2750    8-7-2019    TSO Table II
19-2751    8-7-2019    TSO Table II
19-2753    8-7-2019    TSO Table II
19-2747    8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-2757    8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-2758    8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-2759    8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-2760    8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-2761    8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-2762    8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-2764    8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-2766    8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-2767    8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-2768    9-4-2019    TSO Table II
19-2772    9-4-2019    TSO Table II
19-2773    9-4-2019    TSO Table II
19-2774    9-4-2019    TSO Table II
19-2776    9-18-2019   TSO Table II
19-2777    9-18-2019   TSO Table II
19-2778    9-18-2019   TSO Table II
19-2779    9-18-2019   TSO Table II
19-2781    9-18-2019   TSO Table II
19-2782    9-18-2019   TSO Table II
19-2783    9-18-2019   TSO Table II
19-2784    9-18-2019   TSO Table II
19-2785    9-18-2019   TSO Table II
19-2786    9-18-2019   TSO Table II
19-2790    10-2-2019   TSO Table II
19-2791    10-2-2019   TSO Table II
19-2792    10-2-2019   TSO Table II
19-2793    10-2-2019   TSO Table II
19-2794    10-2-2019   TSO Table II
19-2795    10-2-2019   TSO Table II
19-2796    10-2-2019   TSO Table II
19-2799    10-16-2019  TSO Table II
19-2800    10-16-2019  TSO Table II
19-2802    10-16-2019  TSO Table II
19-2797    11-6-2019   TSO Table V
19-2807    11-6-2019   TSO Table II
19-2808    11-6-2019   TSO Table II
19-2809    11-6-2019   TSO Table V
19-2897    11-6-2019   TSO Table V
19-2810    11-20-2019  TSO Table II
19-2815    11-20-2019  TSO Table VI
19-2816    11-20-2019  TSO Table II
19-2817    11-20-2019  TSO Table II
19-2819    11-20-2019  TSO Table II
19-2821    12-4-2019   TSO Table II
19-2822    12-4-2019   TSO Table V
19-2823    12-4-2019   TSO Table V
19-2826    12-4-2019   TSO Table II
19-2827    12-18-2019  TSO Table V
19-2828    12-18-2019  TSO Table XIV
19-2830    12-18-2019  TSO Table II
19-2831    12-18-2019  TSO Table II
19-2832    12-18-2019  TSO Table II
20-2838    1-15-2020   TSO Table V
20-2842    1-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2844    1-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2845    2-5-2020    TSO Table II
20-2849    2-5-2020    TSO Table II
20-2850    2-5-2020    TSO Table II
20-2852    2-5-2020    TSO Table II
20-2853    2-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2857    2-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2859    2-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2861    2-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2862    2-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2864    3-4-2020    TSO Table II
20-2865    3-4-2020    TSO Table II
20-2866    3-4-2020    TSO Table II
20-2868    4-1-2020    TSO Table V
20-2872    4-1-2020    TSO Table II
20-2877    4-1-2020    TSO Table II
20-2881    4-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2885    4-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2890    4-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2892    4-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2893    4-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2894    4-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2895    4-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2898    4-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2899    5-6-2020    TSO Table II
20-2901    5-6-2020    TSO Table II
20-2905    5-6-2020    TSO Table II
20-2906    5-6-2020    TSO Table II
20-2907    5-6-2020    TSO Table II
20-2909    5-6-2020    TSO Table II
20-2910    5-6-2020    TSO Table II
20-2911    5-6-2020    TSO Table II
20-2913    5-20-2020   TSO Table VI
20-2914    5-20-2020   TSO Table II
20-2917    5-20-2020   TSO Table V
20-2919    5-20-2020   TSO Table II
20-2920    6-3-2020    TSO Table II
20-2921    6-3-2020    TSO Table II
20-2923    6-3-2020    TSO Table II
20-2925    6-17-2020   TSO Table II
20-2926    6-17-2020   TSO Table II
20-2927    6-17-2020   TSO Table II
20-2930    6-17-2020   TSO Table II
20-2934    6-17-2020   TSO Table II
20-2935    6-17-2020   TSO Table II
20-2936    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2937    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2938    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2939    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2940    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2942    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2943    7-15-2020   TSO Table V
20-2944    7-15-2020   TSO Table VI
20-2947    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2948    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2949    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2950    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2951    7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-2946    8-19-2020   TSO Table XIV
20-2953    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2954    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2955    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2956    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2957    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2958    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2959    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2963    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2965    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2969    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2971    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2972    8-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-2974    9-2-2020    TSO Table V
20-2975    9-2-2020    TSO Table V
20-2976    9-2-2020    TSO Table XIV
20-2977    9-2-2020    TSO Table II
20-2978    9-2-2020    TSO Table II
20-2980    9-2-2020    TSO Table II
20-2981    9-2-2020    TSO Table II
20-2983    9-2-2020    TSO Table II
20-2984    9-2-2020    TSO Table II
20-2990    9-16-2020   TSO Table II
20-2991    9-16-2020   TSO Table II
20-2996    9-16-2020   TSO Table II
20-3000    10-7-2020   TSO Table II
20-3005    10-7-2020   TSO Table II
20-3006    10-7-2020   TSO Table II
20-3007    10-7-2020   TSO Table II
20-3008    10-7-2020   TSO Table II
20-3009    10-7-2020   TSO Table II
20-3010    10-21-2020  TSO Table V
20-3012    10-21-2020  TSO Table II
20-3017    11-4-2020   TSO Table II
20-3019    11-18-2020  TSO Table II
20-3021    11-18-2020  TSO Table II
20-3026    11-18-2020  TSO Table II
20-3034    11-18-2020  TSO Table V
20-3037    12-2-2020   TSO Table II
20-3040    12-2-2020   TSO Table II
20-3041    12-2-2020   TSO Table II
20-3042    12-2-2020   TSO Table II
20-3045    12-2-2020   TSO Table II
20-3049    12-16-2020  TSO Table II
20-3050    12-16-2020  TSO Table II
20-3051    12-16-2020  TSO Table II
20-3052    12-16-2020  TSO Table II
20-3053    12-16-2020  TSO Table II
21-3056    1-6-2021    TSO Table II
21-3057    1-6-2021    TSO Table II
21-3058    1-6-2021    TSO Table VI
21-3064    1-6-2021    TSO Table II
21-3065    1-6-2021    TSO Table V
21-3068    1-20-2021   TSO Table II
21-3069    1-20-2021   TSO Table II
21-3074    1-20-2021   TSO Table II
21-3075    1-20-2021   TSO Table II
21-3077    2-3-2021    TSO Table V
21-3085    2-17-2021   TSO Table II
21-3090    2-17-2021   TSO Table II
21-3091    2-17-2021   TSO Table II
21-3092    3-3-2021    TSO Table II
21-3093    3-3-2021    TSO Table II
21-3094    3-3-2021    TSO Table II
21-3097    3-17-2021   TSO Table II
21-3098    3-17-2021   TSO Table II
21-3100    3-17-2021   TSO Table II
21-3104    4-7-2021    TSO Table II
21-3105    4-7-2021    TSO Table II
21-3106    4-7-2021    TSO Table II
21-3107    4-7-2021    TSO Table II
21-3108    4-7-2021    TSO Table II
21-3109    4-7-2021    TSO Table II
20-2867    4-21-2021   TSO Table V
21-3112    4-21-2021   TSO Table II
21-3116    4-21-2021   TSO Table II
21-3121    4-21-2021   TSO Table II
21-3123    4-21-2021   TSO Table II
21-3110    5-5-2021    TSO Table II
21-3111    5-5-2021    TSO Table II
21-3117    5-5-2021    TSO Table V
21-3131    5-5-2021    TSO Table II
21-3132    5-5-2021    TSO Table II
21-3134    5-5-2021    TSO Table II
21-3136    5-19-2021   TSO Table V
21-3137    5-19-2021   TSO Table II
21-3138    5-19-2021   TSO Table II
21-3140    5-19-2021   TSO Table II
21-3141    5-19-2021   TSO Table II
21-3142    5-19-2021   TSO Table II
21-3145    5-19-2021   TSO Table VI
21-3146    5-19-2021   TSO Table II
21-3153    6-2-2021    TSO Table II
21-3154    6-2-2021    TSO Table II
21-3158    6-2-2021    TSO Table II
21-3163    6-16-2021   TSO Table II
21-3168    6-16-2021   TSO Table II
21-3172    6-16-2021   TSO Table II
21-3173    6-16-2021   TSO Table II
21-3175    6-16-2021   TSO Table II
21-3178    7-21-2021   TSO Table V
21-3184    7-21-2021   TSO Table II
21-3185    7-21-2021   TSO Table II
21-3186    7-21-2021   TSO Table II
21-3187    7-21-2021   TSO Table II
21-3188    7-21-2021   TSO Table II
21-3191    7-21-2021   TSO Table II
21-3192    8-4-2021    TSO Table II
21-3196    8-4-2021    TSO Table II
21-3199    8-4-2021    TSO Table II
21-3204    8-18-2021   TSO Table II
21-3207    8-18-2021   TSO Table II
21-3208    8-18-2021   TSO Table II
21-3210    8-18-2021   TSO Table II
21-3212    9-1-2021    TSO Table II
21-3214    9-1-2021    TSO Table II
21-3218    9-1-2021    TSO Table V
21-3219    9-1-2021    TSO Table II
21-3223    9-1-2021    TSO Table II
21-3231    9-15-2021   TSO Table II
21-3226    10-6-2021   TSO Table IX
21-3227    10-6-2021   TSO Table IX
21-3228    10-6-2021   TSO Table V
21-3234    10-6-2021   TSO Table V
21-3235    10-6-2021   TSO Table II
21-3238    10-6-2021   TSO Table II
21-3243    10-20-2021  TSO Table II
21-3246    10-20-2021  TSO Table II
21-3247    10-20-2021  TSO Table II
21-3252    11-3-2021   TSO Table II
21-3253    11-3-2021   TSO Table II
21-3256    11-3-2021   TSO Table II
21-3258    11-3-2021   TSO Table II
21-3257    11-17-2021  TSO Table II
21-3267    12-1-2021   TSO Table II
21-3270    12-15-2021  TSO Table II
21-3276    1-5-2022    TSO Table II
22-3278    1-5-2022    TSO Table II
22-3279    1-19-2022   TSO Table XIV
22-3283    1-19-2022   TSO Table II
22-3284    2-2-2022    TSO Table II
22-3288    2-2-2022    TSO Table II
22-3290    2-16-2022   TSO Table II
22-3292    2-16-2022   TSO Table II
22-3294    2-16-2022   TSO Table II
22-3296    2-16-2022   TSO Table II
22-3302    3-2-2022    TSO Table II
22-3303    3-2-2022    TSO Table II
22-3304    3-2-2022    TSO Table II
22-3305    3-2-2022    TSO Table II
22-3306    3-2-2022    TSO Table II
22-3308    3-16-2022   TSO Table II
22-3310    3-16-2022   TSO Table II
22-3319    3-16-2022   TSO Table II
22-3321    3-16-2022   TSO Table II
22-3322    3-16-2022   TSO Table II
22-3326    4-6-2022    TSO Table II
22-3329    4-6-2022    TSO Table II
22-3330    4-6-2022    TSO Table II
22-3331    4-6-2022    TSO Table II
22-3332    4-6-2022    TSO Table II
22-3333    4-6-2022    TSO Table II
22-3338    4-6-2022    TSO Table II
22-3339    4-20-2022   TSO Table V
22-3349    4-20-2022   TSO Table II
22-3350    4-20-2022   TSO Table II
22-3357    5-4-2022    TSO Table II
22-3363    5-4-2022    TSO Table II
22-3354    5-18-2022   TSO Table II
22-3360    5-18-2022   TSO Table II
22-3368    5-18-2022   TSO Table II
22-3369    5-18-2022   TSO Table II
22-3370    5-18-2022   TSO Table V
22-3373    6-1-2022    TSO Table XIV
22-3382    6-15-2022   TSO Table II
22-3385    6-15-2022   TSO Table II
22-3386    6-15-2022   TSO Table XIV
22-3387    6-15-2022   TSO Table V
22-3389    6-15-2022   TSO Table II
22-3394    7-6-2022    TSO Table II
22-3399    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3404    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3407    8-17-2022   TSO Table VI
22-3409    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3412    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3413    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3414    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3419    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3420    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3421    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3422    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3424    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3425    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3426    8-17-2022   TSO Table II
22-3383    9-7-2022    TSO Table II
22-3428    9-7-2022    TSO Table V
22-3429    9-7-2022    TSO Table XIV
22-3430    9-7-2022    TSO Table II
22-3434    9-7-2022    TSO Table V
22-3436    9-7-2022    TSO Table V
22-3437    9-7-2022    TSO Table II
22-3440    9-7-2022    TSO Table II
22-3442    9-7-2022    TSO Table II
22-3443    9-7-2022    TSO Table II
22-3444    9-7-2022    TSO Table II
22-3445    9-21-2022   TSO Table II
22-3446    9-21-2022   TSO Table II
22-3450    9-21-2022   TSO Table II
22-3451    10-5-2022   TSO Table II
22-3453    10-5-2022   TSO Table II
22-3459    10-5-2022   TSO Table II
22-3460    10-19-2022  TSO Table II
22-3461    10-19-2022  TSO Table II
22-3463    10-19-2022  TSO Table II
22-3466    10-19-2022  TSO Table II
22-3467    10-19-2022  TSO Table VII
22-3468    10-19-2022  TSO Table II
22-3469    11-2-2022   TSO Table II
22-3473    11-2-2022   TSO Table II
22-3475    11-2-2022   TSO Table II
22-3477    11-2-2022   TSO Table II
22-3479    11-15-2022  TSO Table XIV
22-3480    11-15-2022  TSO Table XIV
22-3481    11-15-2022  TSO Table XIV
22-3482    11-15-2022  TSO Table II
22-3483    11-15-2022  TSO Table II
22-3486    11-15-2022  TSO Table II
22-3487    11-15-2022  TSO Table II
22-3489    11-15-2022  TSO Table II
22-3490    11-15-2022  TSO Table II
22-3492    11-15-2022  TSO Table II
22-3495    11-15-2022  TSO Table II
22-3496    12-7-2022   TSO Table II
22-3497    12-7-2022   TSO Table II
22-3501    12-7-2022   TSO Table II
22-3502    12-7-2022   TSO Table II
22-3505    12-7-2022   TSO Table VI
22-3506    1-4-2023    TSO Table XIV
23-3509    1-4-2023    TSO Table II
23-3510    1-4-2023    TSO Table V
23-3511    1-4-2023    TSO Table II
23-3512    1-4-2023    TSO Table V
23-3518    1-18-2023   TSO Table II
23-3519    1-18-2023   TSO Table II
23-3520    1-18-2023   TSO Table II
23-3523    1-18-2023   TSO Table II
23-3514    2-1-2023    TSO Table XIV
23-3521    2-1-2023    TSO Table XIV
23-3522    2-1-2023    TSO Table XIV
23-3524    2-1-2023    TSO Table XIV
23-3525    2-1-2023    TSO Table VI
23-3530    2-15-2023   TSO Table II
23-3536    2-15-2023   TSO Table II
23-3544    2-15-2023   TSO Table II
23-3532    3-1-2023    TSO Table XIV
23-3551    3-1-2023    TSO Table II
23-3548    3-15-2023   TSO Table V
23-3556    3-15-2023   TSO Table II
23-3558    3-15-2023   TSO Table II
23-3559    3-15-2023   TSO Table II
23-3560    3-15-2023   TSO Table II
23-3562    3-15-2023   TSO Table II
23-3564    3-15-2023   TSO Table II
23-3569    4-19-2023   TSO Table XIV
23-3570    4-19-2023   TSO Table XIV
23-3571    4-19-2023   TSO Table V
23-3572    4-19-2023   TSO Table V
23-3573    4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3574    4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3575    4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3576    4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3577    4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3579    4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3580    4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3581    4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3582    4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3583    4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3584    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3585    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3586    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3587    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3588    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3589    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3590    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3591    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3593    5-3-2023    TSO Table V
23-3594    5-3-2023    TSO Table V
23-3595    5-3-2023    TSO Table V
23-3597    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3598    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3599    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3600    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3601    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3603    5-3-2023    TSO Table II
23-3592    5-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-3605    5-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-3606    5-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-3607    5-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-3608    5-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-3609    5-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-3610    5-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-3611    5-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-3612    5-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-3614    6-7-2023    TSO Table X
23-3615    6-7-2023    TSO Table II
23-3616    6-7-2023    TSO Table II
23-3617    6-7-2023    TSO Table II
23-3621    6-7-2023    TSO Table II
23-3622    6-7-2023    TSO Table II
23-3623    6-21-2023   TSO Table II
23-3624    6-21-2023   TSO Table II
23-3625    6-21-2023   TSO Table II
23-3627    6-21-2023   TSO Table V
23-3628    6-21-2023   TSO Table II
23-3631    6-21-2023   TSO Table II
23-3633    7-19-2023   TSO Table IX
23-3635    7-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3636    7-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3638    7-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3639    7-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3640    7-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3641    7-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3643    7-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-3644    8-16-2023   TSO Table XIV
23-3645    8-16-2023   TSO Table II
23-3646    8-16-2023   TSO Table II
23-3647    8-16-2023   TSO Table II
23-3649    8-16-2023   TSO Table II
23-3654    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3655    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3656    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3657    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3661    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3662    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3663    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3664    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3665    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3666    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3667    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3668    9-6-2023    TSO Table II
23-3669    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3670    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3671    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3673    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3674    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3675    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3676    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3678    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3679    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3680    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3681    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3682    10-4-2023   TSO Table II
23-3684    10-18-2023  TSO Table V
23-3685    10-18-2023  TSO Table V
23-3687    10-18-2023  TSO Table II
23-3689    10-18-2023  TSO Table II
23-3690    10-18-2023  TSO Table II
23-3691    10-18-2023  TSO Table II
23-3697    11-1-2023   TSO Table II
23-3698    11-1-2023   TSO Table II
23-3699    11-1-2023   TSO Table II
23-3702    11-15-2023  TSO Table II
23-3704    11-15-2023  TSO Table II
23-3706    11-15-2023  TSO Table II
23-3707    11-15-2023  TSO Table II
23-3708    11-15-2023  TSO Table II
23-3709    11-15-2023  TSO Table II
23-3712    12-6-2023   TSO Table II
23-3714    12-6-2023   TSO Table II
23-3719    12-6-2023   TSO Table II
23-3720    12-6-2023   TSO Table II
23-3721    12-6-2023   TSO Table II
23-3723    12-20-2023  TSO Table II
23-3724    12-20-2023  TSO Table II
23-3725    12-20-2023  TSO Table II
23-3726    12-20-2023  TSO Table II
23-3729    12-20-2023  TSO Table II
24-3731    1-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3732    1-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3734    1-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3735    1-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3737    1-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3733    2-7-2024    TSO Table V
24-3736    2-7-2024    TSO Table V
24-3738    2-7-2024    TSO Table II
24-3739    2-7-2024    TSO Table II
24-3740    2-7-2024    TSO Table II
24-3742    2-7-2024    TSO Table II
24-3743    2-21-2024   TSO Table XIV
24-3744    2-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3745    3-6-2024    TSO Table II
24-3746    3-6-2024    TSO Table V
24-3747    3-6-2024    TSO Table II
24-3748    3-6-2024    TSO Table II
24-3751    3-20-2024   TSO Table II
24-3752    3-20-2024   TSO Table II
24-3753    3-20-2024   TSO Table II
24-3756    3-20-2024   TSO Table II
24-3758    3-20-2024   TSO Table II
24-3759    3-20-2024   TSO Table II
24-3755    4-3-2024    TSO Table II
24-3762    4-3-2024    TSO Table II
24-3763    4-3-2024    TSO Table II
24-3765    4-3-2024    TSO Table II
24-3767    4-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3769    4-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3770    4-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3773    4-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3776    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3777    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3778    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3779    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3780    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3781    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3782    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3784    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3785    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3786    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3787    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3788    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3789    5-1-2024    TSO Table II
24-3792    5-15-2024   TSO Table V
24-3793    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3794    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3795    5-15-2024   TSO Table V
24-3796    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3797    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3799    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3800    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3801    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3802    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3803    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3804    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3805    5-15-2024   TSO Table II
24-3768    6-12-2024   TSO Table XIV
24-3791    6-12-2024   TSO Table XIV
24-3808    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3809    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3810    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3811    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3812    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3813    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3814    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3815    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3816    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3819    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3821    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3822    6-12-2024   TSO Table V
24-3823    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3825    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3826    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3827    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3829    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3830    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3832    6-12-2024   TSO Table II
24-3806    6-26-2024   TSO Table V
24-3818    6-26-2024   TSO Table V
24-3833    6-26-2024   TSO Table V
24-3834    6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-3836    6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-3839    6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-3840    6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-3842    6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-3843    6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-3844    6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-3845    6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-3846    6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-3847    6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-3807    7-17-2024   TSO Table V
24-3850    7-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3851    7-17-2024   TSO Table V
24-3852    7-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3853    7-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3854    7-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3855    7-17-2024   TSO Table II
24-3856    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3857    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3858    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3859    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3860    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3861    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3862    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3863    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3864    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3871    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3872    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3873    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3874    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3875    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3876    8-21-2024   TSO Table V
24-3878    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3880    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3881    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3882    8-21-2024   TSO Table II
24-3865    9-4-2024    TSO Table II
24-3886    9-4-2024    TSO Table II
24-3887    9-4-2024    TSO Table II
24-3888    9-4-2024    TSO Table II
24-3890    9-4-2024    TSO Table II
24-3891    9-4-2024    TSO Table II
24-3893    9-18-2024   TSO Table II
24-3895    9-18-2024   TSO Table VII
24-3896    9-18-2024   TSO Table II
24-3897    9-18-2024   TSO Table II
24-3898    9-18-2024   TSO Table II
24-3899    10-2-2024   TSO Table II
24-3901    10-2-2024   TSO Table II
24-3902    10-16-2024  TSO Table II
24-3905    10-16-2024  TSO Table II
24-3907    10-16-2024  TSO Table II
24-3908    10-16-2024  TSO Table II
24-3909    10-16-2024  TSO Table II
24-3910    10-16-2024  TSO Table II
24-3911    10-16-2024  TSO Table II
24-3912    10-16-2024  TSO Table II
24-3914    10-16-2024  TSO Table II
24-3916    11-6-2024   TSO Table II
24-3917    11-6-2024   TSO Table II
24-3919    11-6-2024   TSO Table II
24-3920    11-6-2024   TSO Table II
24-3921    11-6-2024   TSO Table V
24-3922    11-6-2024   TSO Table II
24-3925    11-6-2024   TSO Table II
24-3926    11-6-2024   TSO Table II
24-3927    11-6-2024   TSO Table II
24-3930    11-20-2024  TSO Table II
24-3931    11-20-2024  TSO Table II
24-3933    11-20-2024  TSO Table II
24-3936    12-4-2024   TSO Table V
24-3937    12-4-2024   TSO Table II
24-3938    12-4-2024   TSO Table II
24-3939    12-4-2024   TSO Table II
24-3941    12-4-2024   TSO Table II
24-3942    12-18-2024  TSO Table II
24-3943    12-18-2024  TSO Table II
24-3945    12-18-2024  TSO Table II
24-3946    12-18-2025  TSO Table II
24-3947    12-18-2024  TSO Table II
24-3948    12-18-2024  TSO Table II
24-3951    12-18-2024  TSO Table II
24-3952    12-18-2024  TSO Table II
25-3954    1-15-2025   TSO Table II
25-3953    2-5-2025    TSO Table XIV
25-3961    2-5-2025    TSO Table II
25-3962    2-5-2025    TSO Table II
25-3964    2-5-2025    TSO Table II
25-3965    2-5-2025    TSO Table II
25-3967    2-19-2025   TSO Table II
25-3968    2-19-2025   TSO Table II
25-3969    2-19-2025   TSO Table II
25-3971    2-19-2025   TSO Table II
25-3970    3-5-2025    TSO Table II
25-3973    3-5-2025    TSO Table II
25-3974    3-5-2025    TSO Table II
25-3975    3-5-2025    TSO Table II
25-3977    3-5-2025    TSO Table II
25-3979    3-5-2025    TSO Table II
25-3978    3-19-2025   TSO Table XIV
25-3981    3-19-2025   TSO Table II
25-3983    3-19-2025   TSO Table II
25-3986    3-19-2025   TSO Table II
25-3987    4-2-2025    TSO Table II
25-3988    4-2-2025    TSO Table II
25-3989    4-2-2025    TSO Table II
25-3990    4-2-2025    TSO Table II
25-3992    4-2-2025    TSO Table II
25-3993    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-3994    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-3995    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-3996    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-3997    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-3998    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-3999    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-4001    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-4002    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-4003    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-4004    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-4006    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-4007    4-16-2025   TSO Table II
25-4010    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4012    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4013    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4014    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4015    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4016    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4018    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4019    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4021    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4023    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4025    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4026    5-7-2025    TSO Table II
25-4020    5-21-2025   TSO Table II
25-4028    5-21-2025   TSO Table II
25-4029    5-21-2025   TSO Table II
25-4031    5-21-2025   TSO Table II
25-4032    5-21-2025   TSO Table II
25-4033    5-21-2025   TSO Table II
25-4034    5-21-2025   TSO Table II
25-4027    6-4-2025    TSO Table II
25-4035    6-4-2025    TSO Table II
25-4036    6-4-2025    TSO Table II
25-4040    6-4-2025    TSO Table II
25-4043    6-4-2025    TSO Table II
25-4044    6-4-2025    TSO Table II
25-4045    6-4-2025    TSO Table II
25-4046    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4047    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4048    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4049    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4050    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4053    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4054    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4055    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4056    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4057    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4058    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4060    6-18-2025   TSO Table II
25-4052    7-9-2025    TSO Table XV
25-4061    7-9-2025    TSO Table XIV
25-4063    7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-4064    7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-4065    7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-4066    7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-4067    7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-4068    7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-4070    7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-4071    7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-4072    7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-4075    8-20-2025   TSO Table II
25-4076    8-20-2025   TSO Table II
25-4077    8-20-2025   TSO Table II
25-4080    8-20-2025   TSO Table II
25-4081    8-20-2025   TSO Table II
25-4083    8-20-2025   TSO Table II
25-4084    8-20-2025   TSO Table II
25-4085    8-20-2025   TSO Table II
25-4086    8-20-2025   TSO Table II
25-4088    9-3-2025    TSO Table XIV
25-4089    9-3-2025    TSO Table II
25-4091    9-3-2025    TSO Table II
25-4093    9-3-2025    TSO Table II
25-4094    9-3-2025    TSO Table II
25-4095    9-3-2025    TSO Table II
25-4096    9-3-2025    TSO Table II
25-4097    9-3-2025    TSO Table II
25-4098    9-3-2025    TSO Table II
25-4099    9-3-2025    TSO Table II
25-4100    9-3-2025    TSO Table II
25-4101    9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-4102    9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-4103    9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-4104    9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-4107    9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-4108    9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-4109    9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-4111    9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-4106    10-1-2025   TSO Table XIV
25-4112    10-1-2025   TSO Table II
25-4114    10-1-2025   TSO Table II
25-4110    10-15-2025  TSO Table II
25-4116    10-15-2025  TSO Table II
25-4118    10-15-2025  TSO Table II
25-4119    10-15-2025  TSO Table II
25-4120    10-15-2025  TSO Table II
25-4121    10-15-2025  TSO Table II
25-4122    10-15-2025  TSO Table II
25-4123    11-5-2025   TSO Table II
25-4124    11-5-2025   TSO Table II
25-4127    11-5-2025   TSO Table II
25-4128    11-5-2025   TSO Table II
25-4129    11-5-2025   TSO Table II
25-4130    11-5-2025   TSO Table II
25-4132    11-5-2025   TSO Table II
25-4133    11-5-2025   TSO Table II
25-4134    11-5-2025   TSO Table II
25-4135    12-3-2025   TSO Table XIV
25-4138    12-3-2025   TSO Table II
25-4139    12-3-2025   TSO Table II
25-4140    12-3-2025   TSO Table II
25-4137    12-17-2025  TSO Table II
25-4144    12-17-2025  TSO Table II
25-4145    12-17-2025  TSO Table II
25-4146    12-17-2025  TSO Table II
25-4148    12-17-2025  TSO Table II
25-4149    12-17-2025  TSO Table II
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
-           - -         157.106
2298        - -         TSO Table II
2682-99     - -         TSO Table I
67-01       - -         TSO Table I
76          7-2-1906    TSO Table II
                        30.01—
                        30.04;
                        31.001—
                        31.005;
                        31.040—
                        31.044;
82          10-2-1907   31.061;
                        31.062;
                        31.075—
                        31.081;
                        36.001;
                        36.002;
                        36.004—
                        36.006
137         7-3-1934    120.01—
                        120.03
182         4-22-1957   TSO Table I
188         6-18-1958   TSO Table I
191         11-5-1958   34.01;
                        34.02
192         11-5-1958   50.030—
                        50.053
196         1-21-1959   TSO Table I
197         2-6-1959    TSO Table I
198         2-6-1959    TSO Table XI
203         5-11-1960   TSO Table II
208         9-28-1960   TSO Table I
221         10-2-1963   35.002;
                        35.003
222         10-22-1963  37.001—
                        37.003
                        112.001—
                        112.008;
                        112.025—
                        112.029;
223         1-8-1964    112.032;
                        112.050—
                        112.065;
                        112.066;
                        112.080
-           1-15-1964   TSO Table I
224         1-15-1964   TSO Table I
226         2-26-1965   TSO Table II
227         3-3-1965    TSO Table I
241         6-1-1966    TSO Table I
243         8-3-1966    TSO Table I
                        58.001—
245         11-9-1966   58.004;
                        58.006—
                        58.010
252         7-19-1967   TSO Table VII
                        50.032;
                        50.034;
267         11-15-1967  50.038—
                        50.040;
                        50.044
264         9-18-1968   92.115—
                        92.119
269         11-20-1968  35.035—
                        35.041
                        90.001;
                        90.002;
                        90.005—
272         1-2-1969    90.008;
                        90.020;
                        90.022—
                        90.025;
                        90.040
274         6-18-1969   31.060
282         10-1-1969   Ch. 79, Schd. I
283         10-1-1969   94.01;
                        94.02
284         10-15-1969  TSO Table VII
                        121.35—
289         11-5-1969   121.39;
                        121.50—
                        121.62
290         11-19-1969  TSO Table I
                        37.015;
291         12-3-1969   37.016;
                        37.018—
                        37.020
293         1-7-1970    TSO Table I
294         3-4-1970    TSO Table XI
296         5-6-1970    50.040
298         6-17-1970   134.46
-           - -1971     50.053
306         2-17-1971   TSO Table II
309         3-17-1971   TSO Table VII
313         4-7-1971    TSO Table XI
311         4-14-1971   TSO Table I
312         4-14-1971   TSO Table XI
                        50.032;
                        50.034;
316         7-21-1971   50.038—
                        50.040;
                        50.044;
                        50.052
319         8-4-1971    30.01;
                        30.03
323         8-4-1971    TSO Table I
326         8-18-1971   TSO Table I
                        34.40—
328         10-6-1971   34.44;
                        92.020—
                        92.022
329         10-20-1971  TSO Table I
307         11-17-1971  33.35—
                        33.44
330         11-14-1971  TSO Table I
331         2-14-1972   TSO Table I
339         4-5-1972    50.015—
                        50.017
334         5-3-1972    58.006
344         6-21-1972   92.035—
                        92.040
355         1-17-1973   TSO Table II
                        90.085;
357         4-18-1973   90.086;
                        90.088
363         6-20-1973   92.055—
                        92.058
370         7-18-1973   TSO Table XI
372         9-5-1973    30.03
374         9-19-1973   TSO Table I
375         9-19-1973   TSO Table XI
376         10-3-1973   112.027
377         10-3-1973   112.029
379         11-7-1973   30.03
381         11-7-1973   92.070
382         12-5-1973   90.120—
                        90.122
383         12-27-1973  TSO Table I
384         12-27-1973  TSO Table XI
385         1-16-1974   31.020—
                        31.026
386         1-16-1974   112.050
387         1-16-1974   90.057;
                        90.058
387         1-16-1974   90.045
368         3-20-1974   TSO Table I
395         3-20-1974   TSO Table XI
396         4-10-1974   TSO Table I
397         4-10-1974   30.03
398         4-17-1974   32.001—
                        32.003
399         5-1-1974    32.001—
                        32.003
401         5-1-1974    TSO Table VII
404         5-15-1974   30.03
406         5-15-1974   TSO Table II
423         6-5-1974    TSO Table IX
408         6-19-1974   31.001—
                        31.005
                        50.065—
414         7-17-1974   50.071;
                        50.090
415         8-7-1974    TSO Table VIII
417         8-21-1974   TSO Table VII
418         9-18-1974   37.035
429         11-20-1974  35.035—
                        35.038
-           12-4-1974   134.01;
                        134.99
430         12-4-1974   112.030
436         12-18-1974  112.007
437         12-18-1974  112.028
                        77.01—
438         12-18-1974  77.16;
                        77.99
439         1-2-1975    33.20—
                        33.22
441         1-2-1975    TSO Table VIII
444         1-2-1975    TSO Table XI
443         1-2-1975    TSO Table I
442         1-15-1975   92.085
445         2-19-1975   92.100
446         2-19-1975   TSO Table VIII
453         3-5-1975    TSO Table II
462         8-20-1975   30.03
471         9-3-1975    TSO Table XI
472         9-17-1975   TSO Table I
473         10-1-1975   TSO Table I
474         10-1-1975   TSO Table I
475         10-1-1975   TSO Table XI
476         11-19-1975  112.007
479         1-7-1976    31.023
484         2-18-1976   TSO Table I
485         2-18-1976   TSO Table XI
486         3-17-1976   Ch. 79, Schd. III
488         4-7-1976    TSO Table I
494         4-21-1976   TSO Table I
495         4-21-1976   TSO Table I
489         5-5-1976    112.031
491         5-19-1976   33.02
493         6-16-1976   71.111;
                        71.112
497         7-7-1976    32.020
                        115.01;
                        115.03;
499         7-7-1976    115.04;
                        115.06;
                        115.07
506         7-7-1976    TSO Table I
507         7-7-1976    TSO Table I
509         7-7-1976    TSO Table XI
505         8-18-1976   112.050
508         9-1-1976    TSO Table X
520         11-20-1976  TSO Table I
518         12-15-1976  30.03
523         2-9-1977    TSO Table I
527         3-16-1977   TSO Table I
689         3-16-1977   TSO Table II
529         4-20-1977   50.047
530         5-4-1977    30.03
531         5-4-1977    TSO Table I
533         5-18-1977   31.078;
                        31.081
537         7-6-1977    33.20
538         7-6-1977    112.055
540         7-20-1977   33.20
545         7-20-1977   94.01—
                        94.02
547         8-3-1977    Ch. 79, Schd. I
548         8-3-1977    94.01—
                        94.02
551         9-7-1977    31.027
552         9-7-1977    33.01
555         9-7-1977    TSO Table I
556         9-7-1977    TSO Table I
559         9-7-1977    TSO Table XI
                        92.001;
562         9-21-1977   92.005—
                        92.007
565         10-5-1977   TSO Table XI
566         10-5-1977   TSO Table VI
567         10-5-1977   TSO Table I
568         10-5-1977   TSO Table I
569         10-19-1977  34.03—
                        34.05
570         10-19-1977  112.007
571         10-19-1977  90.070—
                        90.072
573         10-19-1977  TSO Table V
574         10-19-1977  TSO Table V
576         10-26-1977  TSO Table I
577         10-26-1977  TSO Table I
578         10-26-1977  TSO Table I
579         10-26-1977  TSO Table I
580         11-2-1977   30.03
581         11-2-1977   37.050;
                        37.051
575         11-10-1977  TSO Table I
583         11-16-1977  TSO Table I
584         11-16-1977  TSO Table I
585         11-16-1977  TSO Table I
586         11-16-1977  TSO Table I
587         11-16-1977  TSO Table I
588         11-16-1977  TSO Table VII
589         11-16-1977  TSO Table XI
590         11-16-1977  TSO Table XI
591         11-16-1977  TSO Table XI
592         11-16-1977  TSO Table XI
593         11-30-1977  TSO Table II
595         1-4-1978    TSO Table I
596         1-4-1978    TSO Table I
597         1-4-1978    TSO Table I
598         1-4-1978    TSO Table IV
599         1-4-1978    TSO Table XI
600         1-18-1978   TSO Table VI
601         1-18-1978   TSO Table I
602         2-1-1978    TSO Table I
603         2-1-1978    TSO Table XI
604         2-1-1978    TSO Table XI
605         2-15-1978   50.047
610         3-1-1978    TSO Table XI
611         3-1-1978    TSO Table XI
612         3-1-1978    TSO Table XI
                        134.45;
614         4-19-1978   134.47—
                        134.51
616         5-3-1978    TSO Table V
618         5-17-1978   TSO Table I
619         5-17-1978   TSO Table XI
621         6-7-1978    TSO Table I
622         6-21-1978   TSO Table I
623         6-21-1978   TSO Table XI
624         7-5-1978    TSO Table I
625         7-5-1978    TSO Table I
626         7-5-1978    TSO Table I
627         7-5-1978    TSO Table I
628         7-5-1978    TSO Table I
629         7-5-1978    TSO Table I
630         7-5-1978    TSO Table I
631         7-5-1978    TSO Table XI
632         7-5-1978    TSO Table XI
633         7-5-1978    TSO Table XI
634         7-5-1978    TSO Table XI
635         7-5-1978    TSO Table XI
636         7-5-1978    TSO Table XI
637         7-12-1978   TSO Table I
638         7-12-1978   TSO Table XI
639         7-19-1978   TSO Table I
641         7-19-1978   TSO Table XI
642         7-19-1978   TSO Table XI
643         7-19-1978   TSO Table XI
644         7-26-1978   TSO Table I
647         8-2-1978    TSO Table XI
655         10-18-1978  Ch. 79, Schd. I
657         11-15-1978  37.050;
                        37.051
661         11-15-1978  73.11
665         1-3-1979    34.20
667         1-17-1979   TSO Table XI
668         1-17-1979   TSO Table II
670         2-21-1979   TSO Table I
671         2-21-1979   TSO Table XI
674         3-7-1979    TSO Table III
675         3-7-1979    TSO Table I
676         3-21-1979   TSO Table I
681         4-4-1979    TSO Table IX
682         4-4-1979    TSO Table I
683         4-4-1979    TSO Table XI
684         6-6-1979    38.01—
                        38.11
691         7-18-1979   TSO Table II
694         8-15-1979   TSO Table XI
698         11-21-1979  TSO Table XI
700         12-19-1979  33.20
702         12-19-1979  37.050;
                        37.051
703         12-19-1979  112.055
704         12-19-1979  TSO Table I
705         12-19-1979  TSO Table I
706         12-19-1979  TSO Table XI
708         1-16-1980   112.027
709         1-16-1980   112.029
710         1-16-1980   112.030
711         2-6-1980    112.031
715         2-6-1980    TSO Table IX
716         2-6-1980    TSO Table II
717         2-20-1980   TSO Table II
718         2-20-1980   TSO Table II
719         2-20-1980   Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. III
721         4-2-1980    Ch. 79, Schd. I
723         4-16-1980   50.047
735         5-21-1980   Ch. 79, Schd. I
740         7-2-1980    50.052
743         7-16-1980   TSO Table XI
747         8-6-1980    TSO Table XI
745         8-7-1980    TSO Table I
746         8-7-1980    TSO Table I
750         8-20-1980   TSO Table I
751         8-20-1980   TSO Table I
752         8-20-1980   TSO Table XI
754         9-3-1980    TSO Table VI
756         9-17-1980   TSO Table III
758         10-15-1980  36.007
764         11-26-1980  TSO Table V
765         11-26-1980  TSO Table V
766         11-26-1980  TSO Table V
767         11-26-1980  TSO Table V
768         11-26-1980  TSO Table V
769         11-26-1980  TSO Table V
761         12-10-1980  TSO Table XI
771         1-21-1981   50.053
772         2-4-1981    73.99
773         2-18-1981   TSO Table II
774         2-18-1981   73.11
775         2-18-1981   TSO Table V
776         3-4-1981    33.02
777         3-4-1981    34.04
779         4-1-1981    TSO Table I
780         4-1-1981    TSO Table XI
781         4-15-1981   TSO Table II
782         4-15-1981   TSO Table I
783         4-15-1981   TSO Table XI
787         6-17-1981   TSO Table II
788         7-1-1981    TSO Table II
790         7-15-1981   Ch. 79, Schd. I
794         8-19-1981   112.080—
                        112.085
795         9-2-1981    TSO Table I
797         9-16-1981   TSO Table I
798         9-16-1981   TSO Table I
799         9-16-1981   TSO Table XI
801         10-7-1981   TSO Table V
802         10-7-1981   TSO Table V
803         10-7-1981   TSO Table V
805         10-21-1981  Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. III
808         12-16-1981  TSO Table VIII
809         12-16-1981  Ch. 79, Schd. VII
812         1-6-1982    TSO Table II
813         1-6-1982    44.030;
                        44.031
814         1-6-1982    44.045;
                        44.046
815         1-6-1982    37.065—
                        37.067
816         1-20-1982   72.15;
                        72.99
817         2-3-1982    33.02
820         4-7-1982    TSO Table II
827         7-21-1982   TSO Table I
826         7-22-1982   71.111;
                        71.112
831         7-28-1982   TSO Table I
834         10-6-1982   90.059
835         10-20-1982  TSO Table II
836         11-3-1982   112.053
837         11-3-1982   112.055
840         1-19-1983   TSO Table XIII
843         4-8-1983    TSO Table XI
847         4-20-1983   Ch. 79, Schd. I
849         5-4-1983    TSO Table XII
850         5-18-1983   111.01
854         5-18-1983   TSO Table XII
857         7-13-1983   31.095—
                        31.100
859         8-3-1983    TSO Table I
860         8-3-1983    TSO Table XI
867         11-2-1983   TSO Table I
868         11-16-1983  TSO Table XII
870         11-16-1983  TSO Table XI
871         11-16-1983  TSO Table I
875         1-18-1984   121.38
876         2-1-1984    TSO Table XI
877         2-1-1984    TSO Table XI
878         3-7-1984    33.01;
                        33.02
882         4-4-1984    Ch. 79, Schd. I
844         4-8-1984    TSO Table XIII
887         4-18-1984   44.060;
                        44.061
889         5-16-1984   33.01
829         6-6-1984    90.086
                        90.002;
                        90.007;
891         6-6-1984    90.008;
                        90.070;
                        90.089;
                        90.090
                        117.01—
                        117.04;
898         9-19-1984   117.07;
                        117.08;
                        117.99
899         11-7-1984   50.018
901         1-2-1985    TSO Table II
905         2-20-1985   TSO Table XI
908         4-3-1985    TSO Table XII
909         4-3-1985    TSO Table XIII
910         4-3-1985    73.99
912         5-1-1985    TSO Table XI
913         5-1-1985    TSO Table XI
915         5-15-1985   33.04
917         6-5-1985    TSO Table II
918         6-5-1985    50.052
919         6-19-1985   TSO Table XII
925         7-24-1985   158.01—
                        158.08
933         9-18-1985   33.01
941-86      2-5-1986    TSO Table I
942-86      3-6-1986    TSO Table XIII
945-86      4-2-1986    TSO Table XIII
948-86      5-21-1986   TSO Table XIV
949-86      6-4-1986    34.20
953-86      6-18-1986   50.047
958-86      8-6-1986    Ch. 79, Schd. I
960-86      8-6-1986    TSO Table I
961-86      8-6-1986    TSO Table XI
962-86      8-6-1986    TSO Table I
963-86      8-6-1986    TSO Table XI
964-86      8-6-1986    TSO Table I
965-86      8-6-1986    TSO Table XI
966-86      8-6-1986    TSO Table I
967-86      8-6-1986    TSO Table XI
968-86      8-20-1986   TSO Table I
969-86      8-20-1986   TSO Table XI
972-86      9-17-1986   TSO Table VIII
976-86      10-22-1986  Ch. 79, Schd. I
977-86      11-19-1986  Ch. 79, Schd. VII
978-86      11-19-1986  TSO Table XI
983-87      2-4-1987    134.52
989-87      3-18-1987   30.03
947-86      4-2-1987    74.087
                        90.001;
                        90.002;
996-87      5-20-1987   90.005—
                        90.008;
                        90.086
997-87      5-20-1987   50.053
998-87      5-20-1987   Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. III
1003-87     7-22-1987   Ch. 79, Schd. VIII
1004-87     7-22-1987   114.01—
                        114.09
1008-87     8-5-1987    50.038
1013-87     9-2-1987    90.001;
                        90.002
1014-87     9-2-1987    33.01
                        53.01;
                        53.15—
                        53.21;
1015-87     9-2-1987    53.35—
                        53.37;
                        53.50—
                        53.53
1016-87     9-2-1987    36.005
1017-87     9-30-1987   TSO Table I
1018-87     9-30-1987   TSO Table XI
1019-87     10-14-1987  Ch. 79, Schd. I
1021-87     11-24-1987  92.100
                        40.01;
1027-88     1-20-1988   40.02;
                        Ch. 40, App. A
1028-88     2-3-1988    50.032
1029-88     3-2-1988    44.105—
                        44.110
1030-88     3-16-1988   TSO Table XIII
1031-88     4-6-1988    Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. III
1032-88     4-20-1988   31.003;
                        37.050
1033-88     5-18-1988   120.15—
                        120.19
1035-88     6-15-1988   Ch. 40, App. A;
                        50.031
1038-88     7-6-1988    50.052
1039-88     7-20-1988   117.03
1044-88     8-3-1988    Ch. 79, Schd. I
1045-88     8-3-1988    TSO Table I
1046-88     8-3-1988    TSO Table XI
1058-88     8-17-1988   Ch. 40, App. A;
                        73.12
1055-88     8-24-1988   TSO Table I
1056-88     8-24-1988   TSO Table I
1057-88     8-24-1988   TSO Table XI
1063-88     9-28-1988   TSO Table XI
                        70.01;
                        70.06;
                        71.025;
                        74.018;
                        74.020;
                        74.029;
                        74.087;
                        74.112;
                        74.999;
                        77.31;
                        77.33;
1065-88     11-9-1988   131.02;
                        131.99;
                        132.015;
                        132.018;
                        132.031;
                        132.077;
                        132.999;
                        134.01;
                        134.52;
                        134.99;
                        137.07;
                        137.99;
                        138.04
1074-88     12-14-1988  TSO Table II
1075-88     12-14-1988  TSO Table II
1078-88     12-14-1988  TSO Table II
                        154.09;
1079-89     1-18-1989   155.02;
                        155.04
1086-89     3-1-1989    TSO Table II
1087-89     3-1-1989    TSO Table II
1093-89     3-15-1989   TSO Table XI
1094-89     4-5-1989    TSO Table VIII
2003-89     5-17-1989   Ch. 79, Schd. I
2004-89     6-7-1989    TSO Table I
2006-89     6-7-1989    TSO Table XI
2012-89     6-21-1989   Ch. 79, Schd. I
2014-89     6-28-1989   TSO Table I
2020-89     8-2-1989    136.31
2021-89     8-2-1989    132.049
2022-89     8-2-1989    Ch. 40, App. A
                        58.026;
2024-89     9-20-1989   58.030;
                        58.031
2025-89     9-20-1989   58.005
2026-89     9-20-1989   112.007
2034-89     9-20-1989   112.007
2028-89     9-27-1989   TSO Table II
2029-89     9-29-1989   TSO Table II
2031-89     10-4-1989   Ch. 40, App. A
2032-89     10-18-1989  92.100
2033-89     10-18-1989  50.065
2035-89     10-18-1989  TSO Table XII
2038-89     11-1-1989   TSO Table XII
658-89      11-15-1989  Ch. 79, Schd. IX
2042-89     12-20-1989  120.31—
                        120.38
2043-89     12-20-1989  112.006
2045-89     12-21-1989  TSO Table I
2046-89     12-21-1989  TSO Table XI
2050-90     2-7-1990    Ch. 79, Schd. I
2054-90     3-7-1990    TSO Table III
683-90      4-4-1990    Ch. 79, Schd. X
2057-90     4-18-1990   TSO Table XI
2062-90     9-5-1990    95.01—
                        95.13
2063-90     9-5-1990    39.015
2064-90     9-5-1990    39.016
2065-90     9-5-1990    TSO Table XII
2067-90     9-19-1990   TSO Table XII
2068-90     9-19-1990   58.032
2070-90     11-21-1990  58.025—
                        58.029
2072-90     11-28-1990  TSO Table I
2073-90     11-28-1990  TSO Table XI
2077-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table II
2078-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table II
2079-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table I
2080-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table XI
2081-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table XI
2082-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table I
2083-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table XI
2084-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table XI
2085-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table X
2087-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table I
2088-91     1-23-1991   TSO Table XI
2089-91     2-6-1991    TSO Table XII
2091-91     2-6-1991    112.052
2093-91     4-3-1991    50.052
2096-91     4-3-1991    50.040
2097-91     4-17-1991   TSO Table XI
2101-91     5-15-1991   TSO Table XII
2103-91     5-15-1991   TSO Table XII
2104-91     6-19-1991   TSO Table I
2106-91     7-10-1991   TSO Table I
2107-91     7-10-1991   TSO Table XI
2108-91     7-10-1991   TSO Table I
2109-91     7-10-1991   TSO Table XI
2111-91     7-10-1991   TSO Table I
2112-91     7-10-1991   TSO Table XI
2113-91     7-10-1991   TSO Table II
2114-91     7-24-1991   50.066
2115-91     7-24-1991   32.004
2020-91     8-7-1991    TSO Table XII
2124-91     8-21-1991   50.052
2125-91     9-4-1991    TSO Table XII
2171-91     9-11-1991   50.052
2129-91     9-18-1991   TSO Table I
                        52.01;
                        52.02;
2132-91     9-18-1991   52.15—
                        52.20;
                        52.99
2134-91     10-2-1991   TSO Table I
2135-91     10-2-1991   TSO Table XI
2136-91     10-2-1991   Ch. 79, Schd. I
                        50.047;
2137-91     10-16-1991  50.048;
                        50.050;
                        50.053
2138-91     10-16-1991  TSO Table XII
2145-91     12-4-1991   TSO Table XII
2143-91     12-18-1991  112.033;
                        112.034
2146-92     1-8-1992    TSO Table II
2147-92     1-8-1992    39.030
2150-92     1-22-1992   TSO Table I
2153-92     1-22-1992   TSO Table I
2154-92     1-22-1992   TSO Table XI
2155-92     1-22-1992   50.052
2156-92     1-29-1992   50.018
2158-92     2-19-1992   50.047
2159-92     2-19-1992   50.053
2151-92     2-22-1992   TSO Table XI
2165-92     3-4-1992    32.005
2174-92     6-17-1992   95.09
2190-92     6-17-1992   112.055
2183-92     8-19-1992   TSO Table II
                        36.045;
2189-92     9-16-1992   36.046;
                        36.048—
                        36.052
2191-92     10-7-1992   TSO Table II
2196-92     12-2-1992   TSO Table II
2200-92     12-9-1992   TSO Table XI
2199-92     12-16-1992  50.047
2203-93     3-3-1993    112.055
                        51.01—
                        51.03;
                        51.15—
2204-93     3-3-1993    51.27;
                        51.40—
                        51.45;
                        51.99
2205-93     3-3-1993    TSO Table II
2206-93     3-17-1993   111.01—
                        111.15
2207-93     3-17-1993   TSO Table I
2209-93     4-7-1993    TSO Table XIII
2210-93     4-21-1993   TSO Table XIII
2216-93     4-21-1993   TSO Table I
2221-93     6-2-1993    TSO Table I
2222-93     6-2-1993    TSO Table XI
2223-93     6-2-1993    TSO Table I
2226-93     6-16-1993   TSO Table II
2227-93     7-7-1993    71.045
2228-93     7-7-1993    Ch. 79, Schd. XI
2229-93     7-7-1993    Ch. 79, Schd. VI
2230-93     7-7-1993    30.03
2231-93     7-21-1993   50.053
2232-93     7-21-1993   40.02
2233-93     7-21-1993   73.11;
                        73.99
2234-93     7-21-1993   36.048
2235-93     8-18-1993   132.078;
                        132.999
2236-93     9-1-1993    52.21
2237-93     9-1-1993    TSO Table XI
2238-93     9-1-1993    TSO Table XI
2251-93     12-21-1993  132.078;
                        132.999
                        112.007;
2249-94     1-5-1994    112.050;
                        112.051
                        117.01—
2252-94     1-5-1994    117.09;
                        117.99
2253-94     1-19-1994   130.03
2271-94     6-15-1994   36.053
2272-94     6-15-1994   TSO Table I
2273-94     6-15-1994   TSO Table I
2274-94     6-15-1994   TSO Table XI
2282-94     8-3-1994    TSO Table I
2284-94     8-3-1994    TSO Table XIII
2285-94     8-3-1994    TSO Table XII
2287-94     8-3-1994    31.082
2294-94     9-21-1994   TSO Table XII
2296-94     11-2-1994   TSO Table II
2297-94     11-16-1994  39.030
2303-95     1-4-1995    136.60—
                        136.69
2304-95     1-18-1995   74.072
2306-95     1-18-1995   74.093;
                        74.999
2307-95     1-18-1995   74.087
2308-95     1-18-1995   TSO Table XI
2309-95     1-18-1995   TSO Table I
2310-95     2-1-1995    TSO Table I
2311-95     2-1-1995    TSO Table I
2312-95     2-1-1995    TSO Table XI
                        156.01—
                        156.05;
2313-95     2-1-1995    156.20—
                        156.25;
                        156.40—
                        156.51
2315-95     2-1-1995    TSO Table XIII
2317-95     2-15-1995   TSO Table II
2324-95     4-5-1995    TSO Table XII
2331-95     5-3-1995    TSO Table II
2335-95     6-7-1995    TSO Table XI
2336-95     6-7-1995    TSO Table XII
2339        6-7-1995    151.03
                        151.01;
2339-95     6-7-1995    151.02;
                        151.04
                        153.01;
                        153.02;
2340-95     6-7-1995    153.15—
                        153.18;
                        153.30—
                        153.39
2345-95     7-12-1995   TSO Table I
2348-95     7-12-1995   TSO Table I
2352-95     7-12-1995   TSO Table I
2355-95     7-12-1995   TSO Table I
2359-95     7-12-1995   TSO Table I
2362-95     7-12-1995   TSO Table I
2365-95     7-12-1995   TSO Table I
2368-95     7-12-1995   TSO Table I
2349-95     7-19-1995   TSO Table I
2350-95     7-19-1995   TSO Table XI
2351-95     7-19-1995   TSO Table I
2353-95     7-19-1995   TSO Table I
2376-95     8-16-1995   36.008
2379-95     9-6-1995    39.045
2381-95     9-20-1995   TSO Table II
2387-95     11-1-1995   112.081
2392-95     12-6-1995   152.01—
                        152.08
2394-96     1-3-1996    TSO Table XIII
2395-96     2-7-1996    112.052
2396-96     2-7-1996    58.032
2398-96     2-21-1996   TSO Table XII
2403-96     3-6-1996    TSO Table I
2404-96     3-6-1996    TSO Table XI
2408-96     3-6-1996    112.052
2409-96     3-13-1996   TSO Table II
2410        3-20-1996   112.080
                        10.99;
                        44.999;
                        50.090;
                        52.99;
                        58.999;
                        70.26;
                        70.27;
                        70.99;
                        73.06;
                        73.11;
                        73.99;
                        77.15;
                        77.99;
                        90.999;
                        92.999;
                        94.99;
2410-96     3-20-1996   95.99;
                        111.99;
                        112.999;
                        114.99;
                        115.99;
                        117.99;
                        120.99;
                        121.99;
                        130.99;
                        134.99;
                        136.99;
                        137.21;
                        137.22;
                        137.99;
                        138.04;
                        153.99;
                        156.999
2412-96     4-3-1996    136.14
2418-96     5-1-1996    TSO Table XII
2421-96     5-15-1996   156.45;
                        156.47
2422-96     5-15-1996   92.041
2423-96     5-15-1996   TSO Table II
2428-96     6-19-1996   TSO Table VII
2430-96     7-17-1996   112.055
2431-96     7-17-1996   TSO Table XII
2436-96     8-21-1996   TSO Table XIII
2439-96     10-2-1996   TSO Table XII
2440-96     10-2-1996   TSO Table XIII
2441-96     10-16-1996  TSO Table XIII
2442-96     10-16-1996  TSO Table II
2444-96     12-4-1996   TSO Table XI
2448-96     12-18-1996  TSO Table XI
2449-96     12-18-1996  TSO Table XII
2450-96     12-18-1996  TSO Table I
2451-96     12-18-1996  Ch. 79, Schd. IX
2453        12-30-1996  112.052
2456-97     1-22-1997   TSO Table VII
2455-97     1-27-1997   TSO Table I
2455-1-97   1-27-1997   TSO Table I
2457-97     1-27-1997   TSO Table I
2460-97     2-5-1997    30.03
2462-97     2-19-1997   TSO Table I
2463-97     2-19-1997   TSO Table XI
2468-97     3-19-1997   39.060
2469-97     3-26-1997   TSO Table VII
2470-97     4-23-1997   TSO Table I
2471-97     4-23-1997   TSO Table I
2472-97     4-23-1997   TSO Table XI
2474-97     5-7-1997    TSO Table XIII
2475-97     5-7-1997    112.007
2484-97     6-4-1997    50.052
2485-97     7-2-1997    Ch. 79, Schd. I
2486-97     7-2-1997    40.02;
                        Ch. 40, App. A
2488-67     7-16-1997   TSO Table VII
2489-97     8-6-1997    73.08;
                        73.09
2490-97     8-6-1997    Ch. 79, Schd. IX
2494-97     9-3-1997    TSO Table XIII
2495-97     9-17-1997   50.050
2496-97     9-17-1997   TSO Table XII
2497-97     9-17-1997   TSO Table XII
2498-97     9-17-1997   TSO Table XII
2499-97     9-17-1997   TSO Table XII
2500-97     9-17-1997   Ch. 40, App. A
2503-97     9-17-1997   50.052
2504-97     9-27-1997   TSO Table II
2505-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table I
2506-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table I
2507-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table XI
2508-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table I
2509-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table I
2510-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table XI
2511-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table I
2512-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table I
2513-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table XI
2514-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table I
2515-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table I
2516-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table XI
2517-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table I
2518-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table I
2519-97     10-15-1997  TSO Table XI
2520-97     10-15-1997  Ch. 79, Schd. VI
2521-97     10-15-1997  Ch. 79, Schd. XI
2526-97     12-17-1997  133.01
2529-98     1-7-1998    TSO Table I
                        112.001;
                        112.003;
                        112.007;
                        112.025;
                        112.026;
2530-98     1-21-1998   112.028;
                        112.051—
                        112.053;
                        112.055—
                        112.059;
                        112.065;
                        112.081
2531-98     1-21-1998   TSO Table II
2537-98     2-17-1998   TSO Table VI
2540-98     2-18-1998   31.115—
                        31.117
2546-98     3-4-1998    TSO Table VI
2547-98     3-4-1998    36.009
2539-98     4-1-1998    TSO Table XIII
2549-98     4-1-1998    TSO Table I
2550-98     4-1-1998    TSO Table I
2551-98     4-1-1998    TSO Table XI
2552-98     4-1-1998    TSO Table XIII
2554-98     5-6-1998    TSO Table XI
                        112.053;
2556-98     5-6-1998    112.055;
                        112.057;
                        112.059
2556-98     5-6-1998    112.055
2558-98     5-6-1998    112.009
2560-98     5-6-1998    TSO Table V
2557-98     5-7-1998    132.078;
                        132.999
2562-98     5-20-1998   TSO Table I
2563-98     5-20-1998   TSO Table XI
2564-98     5-20-1998   TSO Table XIII
2559-98     6-3-1998    TSO Table II
2566-98     6-3-1998    TSO Table I
2567-98     6-3-1998    TSO Table XI
2568-98     6-3-1998    TSO Table I
2569-98     6-3-1998    TSO Table XI
2570-98     6-3-1998    TSO Table XI
2575-98     6-3-1998    36.010
                        111.01—
                        111.10;
2576-98     6-3-1998    111.12;
                        111.13;
                        111.15
2578-98     6-17-1998   TSO Table XII
2571-98     7-1-1998    TSO Table I
2572-98     7-1-1998    TSO Table I
2573-98     7-1-1998    TSO Table XI
2583-98     7-1-1998    35.080—
                        35.084
2584-98     7-1-1998    TSO Table II
2585-98     7-1-1998    TSO Table II
2586-98     7-1-1998    TSO Table II
2587-98     7-1-1998    TSO Table II
2588-98     7-1-1998    TSO Table II
2589-98     7-1-1998    TSO Table II
2592-98     7-15-1998   TSO Table II
2594-98     8-5-1998    Ch. 79, Schd. XI
2598-98     8-5-1998    TSO Table VII
2599-98     8-19-1998   TSO Table XIII
2600-98     8-19-1998   TSO Table II
                        32.035—
2601-98     8-19-1998   32.041;
                        32.999
2602-98     8-19-1998   TSO Table II
2596-98     9-16-1998   TSO Table XII
2604-98     10-7-1998   TSO Table II
2612-98     10-12-1998  112.055
2606-98     10-19-1998  TSO Table I
2607-98     10-19-1998  TSO Table I
2608-98     10-19-1998  TSO Table XI
2609-98     10-21-1998  Ch. 79, Schd. VI
2610-98     10-21-1998  TSO Table XI
2611-98     10-21-1998  TSO Table XI
2613-98     11-4-1998   30.01
2619-98     11-20-1998  TSO Table II
2618-98     12-16-1998  35.080—
                        35.084
2621-99     1-19-1999   TSO Table II
2623-99     2-1-1999    112.055
2628-99     2-5-1999    TSO Table II
2629-99     2-5-1999    TSO Table II
2632-99     2-5-1999    TSO Table II
2633-99     2-5-1999    TSO Table II
2634-99     2-5-1999    TSO Table II
2631-99     2-8-1999    TSO Table II
2638-99     3-1-1999    112.055
2643-99     3-1-1999    TSO Table XIII
2637-99     3-15-1999   112.007
2644-99     3-31-1999   TSO Table I
2645-99     3-31-1999   TSO Table I
2647-99     4-5-1999    TSO Table XI
2648-99     4-5-1999    TSO Table XIII
2650-99     4-5-1999    TSO Table I
2651-99     4-5-1999    TSO Table XI
2704-99     4-6-1999    112.053
2652-99     4-19-1999   TSO Table XI
2653-99     4-19-1999   TSO Table II
2654-99     4-19-1999   Ch. 79, Schd. IX
2657-99     4-19-1999   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
2658-99     5-3-1999    TSO Table XII
2659-99     5-3-1999    TSO Table XII
2664-99     5-17-1999   TSO Table II
2668-99     6-7-1999    TSO Table XIII
2669-99     6-7-1999    30.01
2667-99     6-18-1999   TSO Table XIII
2670-99     6-21-1999   Ch. 79, Schd. I
                        40.02;
2671-99     6-21-1999   43.01;
                        90.008;
                        112.051
2673-99     7-6-1999    TSO Table II
2675        7-19-1999   TSO Table II
2676-99     7-19-1999   TSO Table II
2680-99     8-4-1999    121.15—
                        121.20
2683-99     8-18-1999   115.05;
                        153.19
2685-99     8-18-1999   TSO Table I
2686-99     8-18-1999   TSO Table I
                        150.01—
                        150.06;
                        150.08;
2689-99     9-1-1999    150.25;
                        150.26;
                        150.28—
                        150.31;
                        150.99
2690-99     9-1-1999    92.135—
                        92.139
2692-99     9-15-1999   50.052
2694-99     9-15-1999   Ch. 79, Schd. I
2695-99     9-15-1999   TSO Table I
3693-99     9-15-1999   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
2698-99     10-6-1999   TSO Table XII
2700-99     10-6-1999   TSO Table I
2701-99     10-6-1999   TSO Table I
2702-99     10-6-1999   43.01
2703-99     10-6-1999   112.007
2704-99     10-6-1999   43.01
2706-99     10-6-1999   TSO Table II
2707-99     10-6-1999   TSO Table II
2708-99     10-6-1999   TSO Table XI
2708-99     10-6-1999   TSO Table XIII
2709-99     10-6-1999   TSO Table XIII
2705-99     10-20-1999  73.02;
                        73.11
                        36.025—
                        36.027;
2710-99     10-20-1999  36.029—
                        36.032;
                        36.034
2716-99     11-17-1999  TSO Table XVII
2717-99     11-17-1999  TSO Table XVII
2718-99     11-17-1999  TSO Table XVII
2719-99     11-17-1999  TSO Table XVII
2720-99     11-17-1999  TSO Table XVII
2721-99     11-17-1999  TSO Table II
2713-99     12-1-1999   TSO Table I
2714-99     12-1-1999   TSO Table XI
2723-99     12-1-1999   TSO Table I
2724-99     12-15-1999  TSO Table II
2725-99     12-15-1999  TSO Table II
2726-99     12-15-1999  TSO Table I
2727-99     12-15-1999  TSO Table I
2730-99     1-5-2000    TSO Table II
2731-99     1-5-2000    TSO Table XVII
2-01        1-17-2000   TSO Table XVII
3-01        1-17-2000   TSO Table XVII
4-01        1-17-2000   TSO Table XVII
5-01        1-17-2000   TSO Table XVII
6-01        1-17-2000   TSO Table XVII
2722-99     1-19-2000   TSO Table XIII
2736-00     2-16-2000   33.02
2737-00     2-16-2000   TSO Table II
2738-00     2-16-2000   TSO Table II
2739-00     3-1-2000    TSO Table XII
2740-00     3-1-2000    TSO Table II
2742-00     3-15-2000   50.052
2743-00     3-15-2000   TSO Table II
2744-00     3-15-2000   TSO Table II
2745-00     3-15-2000   TSO Table II
2749-00     4-5-2000    58.006
2752-00     4-5-2000    TSO Table XII
2741-00     4-15-2000   112.052
2747-00     4-15-2000   TSO Table I
2748-00     4-15-2000   TSO Table I
2748-00     4-15-2000   TSO Table XIII
2751-00     4-19-2000   TSO Table XI
2753-00     4-19-2000   TSO Table I
2756-00     5-3-2000    TSO Table I
2759-00     5-4-2000    TSO Table II
2760-00     5-17-2000   TSO Table I
2760-00-01  5-17-2000   TSO Table I
2760-00-020 5-17-2000   TSO Table XI
2763-00     5-17-2000   TSO Table I
2764-00     5-17-2000   Ch. 79, Schd. I
2767-00     5-17-2000   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
2768-00     5-17-2000   Ch. 79, Schd. XI
2765-00     5-23-2000   TSO Table I
2770-00     6-8-2000    50.047
2773-00     6-21-2000   TSO Table I
2776-00     7-19-2000   TSO Table XIII
2778-00     7-19-2000   TSO Table XIII
2779-00     7-19-2000   TSO Table XIII
                        112.051;
2780-00     7-19-2000   112.052;
                        112.059
2777-00     8-2-2000    TSO Table XI
2781-00     8-2-2000    TSO Table XIII
2783-00     8-2-2000    TSO Table XII
2774-00     8-21-2000   TSO Table I
2785-00     9-6-2000    TSO Table XII
                        112.051;
2787-00     9-6-2000    112.052;
                        112.065
2790-00     9-6-2000    TSO Table VII
2792-00     9-20-2000   TSO Table X
2796-00     10-11-2000  TSO Table XII
2797-00     10-11-2000  TSO Table XII
2799-00     10-11-2000  TSO Table XII
2794-00     10-18-2000  TSO Table XII
2795-00     10-18-2000  TSO Table II
2800-00     11-1-2000   TSO Table I
2801-00     11-1-2000   TSO Table I
2804-00     11-1-2000   Ch. 79, Schd. I
2805-00     11-1-2000   TSO Table XII
2806-00     12-6-2000   TSO Table X
2809-00     12-20-2000  TSO Table I
2810-00     12-20-2000  TSO Table I
2811-00     12-20-2000  TSO Table XIII
2812-00     12-20-2000  TSO Table XIII
0002-01     1-17-2001   TSO Table XVII
01-01       1-17-2001   TSO Table XI
8-01        1-24-2001   TSO Table I
9-01        1-24-2001   TSO Table I
10-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table I
11-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table I
12-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table I
13-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table I
14-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table II
16-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table I
17-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table I
20-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table I
22-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table XI
23-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table XI
26-01       1-24-2001   TSO Table XI
29-01       2-7-2001    TSO Table XI
31-01       2-21-2001   Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. VI
34-01       2-21-2001   112.055
35-01       2-21-2001   43.02
36-01       2-21-2001   156.25
38-01       2-21-2001   TSO Table I
39-01       2-21-2001   TSO Table XI
40-01       2-21-2001   TSO Table XIII
41-01       2-21-2001   TSO Table XII
42-01       3-7-2001    TSO Table I
43-01       3-7-2001    TSO Table I
47-01       3-7-2001    TSO Table XII
44-01       3-14-2001   TSO Table I
45-01       3-14-2001   TSO Table I
46-01       3-14-2001   TSO Table XI
46-01       3-14-2001   TSO Table XIII
48-01       3-14-2001   TSO Table I
49-01       3-14-2001   TSO Table I
50-01       3-21-2001   TSO Table XI
51-01       3-21-2001   TSO Table II
52-01       3-21-2001   TSO Table II
53-01       4-4-2001    TSO Table XIII
54-01       4-4-2001    TSO Table XII
55-01       4-18-2001   112.055
58-01       5-2-2001    112.055
60-01       5-16-2001   TSO Table XII
68-01       5-16-2001   Ch. 79, Schd. IX
71-01       6-6-2001    TSO Table II
72-01       6-6-2001    50.055
72-01       6-6-2001    51.23
73-01       6-6-2001    TSO Table XII
74-01       6-20-2001   TSO Table XIII
75-01       6-20-2001   TSO Table I
76-01       6-20-2001   TSO Table XI
79-01       7-18-2001   112.055
80-01       7-18-2001   TSO Table VII
82-01       8-1-2001    111.13
83-01       8-15-2001   111.09
86-01       8-15-2001   TSO Table I
87-01       8-15-2001   TSO Table I
88-01       8-15-2001   TSO Table I
89-01       8-15-2001   TSO Table XI
85-01       9-5-2001    TSO Table I
91-01       9-5-2001    TSO Table I
                        50.047;
92-01       9-5-2001    52.18;
                        156.05
95-01       9-5-2001    TSO Table XI
96-01       9-5-2001    111.14
90-01       9-19-2001   TSO Table XIII
98-01       9-19-2001   TSO Table VIII
                        119.01—
                        119.05;
                        119.20—
                        119.26;
97-01       10-3-2001   119.40—
                        119.44;
                        119.55—
                        119.60;
                        119.99
99-01       10-10-2001  TSO Table XII
100-01      11-7-2001   TSO Table XVII
102-01      11-7-2001   35.130
103-01A     11-20-2001  52.18
101-02      11-21-2001  TSO Table VII
104-01      12-19-2001  43.02
106-01      1-2-2002    TSO Table II
0001-02     1-16-2002   TSO Table XVII
0002-02     1-16-2002   TSO Table XVII
0003-02     1-16-2002   TSO Table XVII
0004-02     1-16-2002   TSO Table XVII
0005-02     1-16-2002   TSO Table XVII
0006-02     1-16-2002   TSO Table XVII
0007-02     1-16-2002   TSO Table XVII
0008-02     1-16-2002   TSO Table XVII
0009-02     1-16-2002   156.05
0010-02     1-16-2002   43.02
0004-02     2-6-2002    TSO Table II
0012-02     2-20-2002   TSO Table XIII
0013-02     2-20-2002   TSO Table II
0015-02     3-6-2002    TSO Table XII
0016-02     3-6-2002    TSO Table XI
0021-02     3-20-2002   TSO Table XII
0018-02     4-3-2002    TSO Table II
0019-02     4-3-2002    TSO Table I
0020-02     4-3-2002    TSO Table I
0022-02     4-3-2002    TSO Table II
0023-02     4-3-2002    TSO Table XV
0024-02     4-17-2002   TSO Table XI
0026-02     5-1-2002    43.01
0027-02     5-1-2002    43.01
0028-02     5-15-2002   TSO Table I
0029-02     5-15-2002   TSO Table I
0030-02     5-15-2002   TSO Table XI
0031-02     5-15-2002   TSO Table XIII
0032-02     5-15-2002   TSO Table XIII
0034-02     5-15-2002   TSO Table XIII
0035-02     5-15-2002   TSO Table XII
0036-02     5-15-2002   156.24
0037-02     6-12-2002   TSO Table XII
0038-02     6-12-2002   TSO Table XII
0040-02     6-12-2002   TSO Table VII
0041-02     6-12-2002   Ch. 79, Schd. I
0039-02     6-19-2002   TSO Table XII
                        92.116—
                        92.118;
0043-02     6-19-2002   151.01;
                        151.03;
                        151.04
0044-02     6-19-2002   TSO Table I
0045-02     7-3-2002    Ch. 40, App. A
0046-02     7-17-2002   TSO Table XIII
0047-02     7-17-2002   TSO Table XI
0048-02     7-17-2002   TSO Table XIII
0050-02     8-7-2002    35.145—
                        35.147
0056-02     8-21-2002   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
0057-02     8-21-2002   TSO Table I
0058-02     8-21-2002   TSO Table I
0055-02     9-5-2002    112.055
0059-02     9-5-2002    Ch. 79, Schd. VI
0060-02     9-5-2002    TSO Table II
0062-02     9-5-2002    TSO Table I
0069-02     9-10-2002   Ch. 79, Schd. IX
0065-02     9-18-2002   TSO Table XI
0066-02     9-18-2002   90.005
0067-02     9-18-2002   111.13
                        112.051;
0068-02     9-18-2002   112.052;
                        112.057;
                        112.059
0069-02     9-18-2002   Ch. 79, Schd. VI;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. IX
0071-02     10-2-2002   TSO Table XIII
0073-02     10-2-2002   52.18
0074-02     10-16-2002  TSO Table X
0077-02     10-29-2002  TSO Table I
0078-02     11-6-2002   TSO Table XIII
0080-02     11-6-2002   TSO Table XVII
0083-02     11-6-2002   TSO Table I
0084-02     11-20-2002  TSO Table I
0085-02     11-20-2002  TSO Table XI
0086-02     11-20-2002  43.02
0087-02     11-20-2002  Ch. 79, Schd. IX
0090-02     12-4-2002   TSO Table II
0095-02     12-4-2002   Ch. 79, Schd. IX
0096-02     12-4-2002   TSO Table XI
0097-02     12-18-2002  TSO Table XVII
0098-02     12-18-2002  TSO Table XVII
0099-02     12-18-2002  TSO Table XVII
0100-02     12-18-2002  TSO Table XVII
0101-02     12-18-2002  TSO Table XVII
0102-02     12-18-2002  TSO Table XVII
0103-02     12-18-2002  Ch. 79, Schd. VI
0003-03     1-1-2003    TSO Table VI
0002-03     1-8-2003    TSO Table XIII
0005-03     2-5-2003    TSO Table XII
0006-03     2-12-2003   TSO Table II
0007-03     2-19-2003   TSO Table XII
0008-03     2-19-2003   43.05
                        Ch. 40, App. A;
0009-03     2-19-2003   78.01—
                        78.15;
                        92.100
0010-03     2-19-2003   134.65—
                        134.68
0011-03     2-19-2003   TSO Table II
0012-03     2-19-2003   TSO Table I
0017-03     3-5-2003    TSO Table XIII
0013-03     3-19-2003   TSO Table I
0014-03     3-19-2003   TSO Table XI
0016-03     3-19-2003   TSO Table XII
0018-03     3-19-2003   TSO Table XII
0019-03     3-19-2003   TSO Table XIII
0020-03     3-19-2003   TSO Table XI
0021-03     3-19-2003   51.16
0022-03     3-19-2003   50.052;
                        51.23
                        Ch. 40, App. A;
0023-03     3-19-2003   43.01;
                        73.13
0024-03     3-19-2003   TSO Table II
0026-03     3-19-2003   TSO Table XIII
0027-03     3-19-2003   TSO Table XIII
0028-03     4-2-2003    TSO Table XII
0030-03     4-2-2003    32.055;
                        Ch. 32, App. A
0031-03     4-2-2003    TSO Table XIII
0032-03     4-16-2003   34.27
0033-03     4-16-2003   92.120
0034-03     4-16-2003   TSO Table XI
0036-03     5-21-2003   TSO Table II
0038-03     6-4-2003    TSO Table XII
0041-03     6-18-2003   Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. VI
                        132.078;
0042-03     6-18-2003   132.999;
                        151.03
0043-03     7-2-2003    TSO Table XIII
0044-03     7-2-2003    TSO Table XII
0045-03     7-2-2003    TSO Table XIII
0049-03     8-20-2003   112.055
0050-03     8-20-2003   TSO Table XIII
03-0055     9-3-2003    TSO Table XIII
03-0056     9-3-2003    TSO Table XIII
03-0057     9-3-2003    TSO Table XIII
03-0061     9-3-2003    TSO Table II
03-0058     9-17-2003   TSO Table XII
03-0064     10-1-2003   TSO Table XIII
03-0068     10-1-2003   TSO Table XIII
03-0069     10-1-2003   TSO Table XIII
03-0066     10-15-2003  TSO Table XII
03-0071     10-15-2003  TSO Table XIII
03-0067     11-5-2003   TSO Table XII
03-0076     11-5-2003   TSO Table XII
03-0077     11-5-2003   40.02;
                        73.11
03-0073     11-19-2003  TSO Table XIII
03-0079     11-19-2003  TSO Table XII
03-0080     11-19-2003  TSO Table XIII
03-0085     12-3-2003   Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. IX
03-0089     12-17-2003  TSO Table XVII
03-0090     12-17-2003  TSO Table XVII
03-0091     12-17-2003  TSO Table XVII
03-0092     12-17-2003  TSO Table XVII
03-0093     12-17-2003  TSO Table XVII
03-0094     12-17-2003  TSO Table XVII
03-0097     12-17-2003  TSO Table I
03-0098     12-17-2003  Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. VII
03-0105     1-21-2004   43.01
                        54.001—
                        54.007;
                        54.020—
                        54.029;
                        54.045—
                        54.047;
                        54.060—
                        54.066;
                        54.080—
                        54.087;
                        54.100—
                        54.111;
                        54.125;
04-0108     1-21-2004   54.126;
                        54.140;
                        54.155;
                        54.170—
                        54.176;
                        54.190;
                        54.191;
                        54.193;
                        54.205—
                        54.209;
                        54.220;
                        54.221;
                        54.235;
                        54.236
03-0082     2-4-2004    TSO Table I
03-0083     2-4-2004    TSO Table XI
04-0111     2-4-2004    TSO Table XIII
04-0112     2-4-2004    TSO Table I
04-0114     2-4-2004    156.51
03-0104     2-18-2004   TSO Table XI
04-0123     2-18-2004   44.001—
                        44.017
04-0124     2-18-2004   44.125—
                        44.127
04-0125     2-18-2004   44.140
03-0081     3-3-2004    TSO Table XIII
03-0095     3-3-2004    112.052
04-0107     3-3-2004    TSO Table XIII
04-0133     3-17-2004   TSO Table XI
04-0134     3-17-2004   134.45
04-0134     3-17-2004   134.46
04-0135     3-17-2004   TSO Table XVII
04-136      3-17-2004   35.080;
                        35.081
04-0106     4-7-2004    112.052
04-0138     4-21-2004   TSO Table XIII
04-0139     4-21-2004   43.02
04-0140     4-21-2004   TSO Table VI
04-0141     4-21-2004   92.121
04-0143     5-5-2004    TSO Table XIII
04-0148     5-5-2004    30.01;
                        30.03
                        37.125—
04-0147     5-19-2004   37.129;
                        37.999
04-0149     5-19-2004   TSO Table XIII
04-0150     5-19-2004   TSO Table XII
04-0152     6-2-2004    TSO Table XII
04-0153     6-2-2004    TSO Table XIII
04-0154     6-2-2004    50.053
04-0155     6-2-2004    50.032
04-0156     6-16-2004   36.010
                        31.020;
04-0157     7-7-2004    31.021;
                        31.023
04-0159     7-7-2004    112.052
04-0168     7-7-2004    TSO Table II
04-0160     7-21-2004   TSO Table I
04-0161     7-21-2004   TSO Table XI
04-0162     7-21-2004   TSO Table XIII
04-0166     7-21-2004   TSO Table I
04-0169     8-4-2004    TSO Table VI
04-0171     8-4-2004    112.055
04-0173     8-4-2004    112.055
04-0174     8-18-2004   TSO Table XIII 
04-0175     8-18-2004   TSO Table I
04-0176     8-18-2004   TSO Table XI
04-0177     8-18-2004   TSO Table I
04-0178     8-18-2004   TSO Table I
04-0179     8-18-2004   TSO Table I
04-0180     8-18-2004   TSO Table XI
04-0181     9-1-2004    TSO Table XIII
04-0182     9-15-2004   TSO Table XII
04-0187     9-15-2004   TSO Table XIII
04-0188     10-6-2004   TSO Table XII
04-0189     10-6-2004   TSO Table XIII
04-0190     10-6-2004   TSO Table XIII
04-0193     10-6-2004   112.055
04-0195     10-6-2004   TSO Table XV
04-0196     10-6-2004   TSO Table XV
04-0198     10-6-2004   TSO Table XV
04-0199     10-6-2004   TSO Table XV
04-0313     10-6-2004   36.011
04-0206     11-3-2004   TSO Table XIII
04-0215     11-3-2004   112.055
04-0216     11-17-2004  TSO Table XIII
04-0217     11-17-2004  TSO Table I
04-0219     12-1-2004   TSO Table XVII
04-0220     12-1-2004   TSO Table XVII
04-0221     12-1-2004   TSO Table XVII
04-0222     12-1-2004   TSO Table XVII
04-0223     12-1-2004   TSO Table XVII
04-0224     12-1-2004   TSO Table XVII
04-0228     12-1-2004   112.055
04-0229     12-1-2004   TSO Table XVII
04-0210     12-15-2004  TSO Table I
04-0211     12-15-2004  TSO Table I
04-0212     12-15-2004  TSO Table I
04-0213     12-15-2004  TSO Table XIII
04-0214     12-15-2004  TSO Table XIII
04-0236     12-15-2004  TSO Table XVII
05-0237     1-10-2005   TSO Table XV
05-0238     1-10-2005   TSO Table XV
05-0239     1-10-2005   TSO Table XV
05-0240     1-10-2005   TSO Table XV
05-0241     1-10-2005   TSO Table XV
05-0243     1-10-2005   TSO Table XV
                        92.001;
04-0227     2-2-2005    92.115;
                        92.116;
                        151.03
05-0244     2-2-2005    TSO Table XIII
05-0245     2-2-2005    TSO Table XIII
05-0247     2-16-2005   TSO Table XIII
05-0249     2-16-2005   TSO Table II
05-0248     3-2-2005    TSO Table XIII
                        91.00—
                        91.08;
                        91.15—
                        91.27;
05-0251     3-16-2005   91.30;
                        91.35;
                        91.36;
                        91.45—
                        91.59;
                        91.74
05-0262     3-16-2005   TSO Table II
05–0260   3-16-2005   TSO Table XI
05-0250     4-6-2005    TSO Table XIII
                        150.01—
                        150.06;
                        150.08;
05-0252     4-6-2005    150.25;
                        150.26;
                        150.28—
                        150.32;
                        150.99
05-0263     4-6-2005    43.01
05-0264     4-6-2005    111.03;
                        111.13
05-0265     4-6-2005    112.033
05-0266     4-6-2005    157.003;
                        157.081
05-0267     4-6-2005    35.001
                        44.170—
04-0170     4-20-2005   44.181;
                        44.999
05-0269     4-20-2005   TSO Table XII
05-0271     4-20-2005   43.02
05-0272     4-20-2005   117.03
05-0274     5-4-2005    TSO Table II
05-0276     5-18-2005   37.140
05-0275     6-1-2005    TSO Table XIII
05-0277     6-1-2005    TSO Table XI
05-0278     6-1-2005    TSO Table XIII
05-0279     6-1-2005    36.010
05-0280     6-1-2005    43.01
05-0282     6-15-2005   TSO Table XI
05-0283     6-15-2005   TSO Table XI
05-0284     6-15-2005   157.042
05-0285     6-15-2005   157.074—
                        157.083
05-0286     6-15-2005   92.002
05-0287     6-15-2005   TSO Table X
05-0289     7-6-2005    TSO Table XIII
05-0290     7-6-2005    TSO Table II
05-0291     7-6-2005    TSO Table VII
05-0292     7-6-2005    TSO Table I
05-0293     7-6-2005    TSO Table I
05-0294     7-6-2005    TSO Table XI
05-0295     7-20-2005   TSO Table II
05-0296     8-3-2005    Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. VI
05-0297     8-3-2005    TSO Table I
05-0298     8-3-2005    TSO Table XI
05-0299     8-3-2005    TSO Table I
05-0301     8-23-2005   TSO Table XIII
05-0303     8-23-2005   43.02
05-0304     8-23-2005   43.02
05-0306     8-23-2005   TSO Table VII
05-0308     9-7-2005    TSO Table XIII
05-0309     9-7-2005    TSO Table XIII
05-0310     9-7-2005    TSO Table II
05-0314     9-21-2005   TSO Table XIII
05-0315     9-21-2005   TSO Table I
05-0316     9-21-2005   TSO Table XI
05-0322     9-21-2005   TSO Table XII
05-0323     10-5-2005   TSO Table I
05-0324     10-5-2005   TSO Table XI
05-0325     10-5-2005   TSO Table I
05-0326     10-5-2005   TSO Table XI
05-0327     10-5-2005   TSO Table I
05-0328     10-5-2005   TSO Table XI
05-0329     10-5-2005   TSO Table I
05-0330     10-5-2005   TSO Table XI
05-0331     10-5-2005   TSO Table XIII
05-0334     11-2-2005   Ch. 79, Schd. IX
05-0335     11-2-2005   TSO Table XVII
05-0336     11-2-2005   111.03
05-0337     11-2-2005   121.18
05-0341     11-16-2005  32.001
05-0338     12-7-2005   TSO Table XIII
05-0339     12-7-2005   TSO Table XIII
05-0340     12-7-2005   TSO Table XIII
05-0342     12-7-2005   TSO Table XIII
05-0343     12-7-2005   TSO Table XIII
05-0344     12-21-2005  TSO Table I
05-0345     12-21-2005  TSO Table XI
05-0346     12-21-2005  TSO Table I
05-0347     12-21-2005  TSO Table II
05-0350     12-21-2005  TSO Table XIII
05-0351     12-21-2005  TSO Table XI
                        30.01;
05-0353     12-21-2005  35.042;
                        35.113
05-0359     12-21-2005  TSO Table II
05-0356     12-22-2005  TSO Table XVII
05-0360     12-22-2005  TSO Table XVII
05-0361     12-22-2005  TSO Table XVII
05-0362     12-22-2005  TSO Table XVII
05-0363     12-22-2005  TSO Table XVII
05-0364     12-22-2005  TSO Table XVII
05-0365     12-22-2005  TSO Table XVII
05-0312     2-1-2006    157.097;
                        157.103
05-0313     2-1-2006    157.003;
                        157.083
06-0368     2-1-2006    TSO Table XIII
                        157.003;
                        157.007;
                        157.031;
                        157.037;
                        157.041;
                        157.062;
                        157.065;
                        157.074—
                        157.083;
                        157.095;
                        157.097;
                        157.098;
                        157.100;
                        157.101;
06-0369     2-1-2006    157.103—
                        157.105;
                        157.107—
                        157.109;
                        157.123;
                        157.124;
                        157.126;
                        157.140;
                        157.143;
                        157.200—
                        157.206;
                        157.221;
                        157.222;
                        157.225;
                        157.227
06-0371     2-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0372     2-1-2006    TSO Table II
06-0376     2-15-2006   Ch. 79, Schd. I
06-0378     2-15-2006   TSO Table II
06-0375     3-1-2006    TSO Table XIII
06-0381     3-1-2006    73.06;
                        73.99
06-0380     3-15-2006   TSO Table XI
                        57.001;
                        57.002;
                        57.015—
                        57.017;
                        57.030—
                        57.036;
                        57.050—
                        57.059;
                        57.070—
                        57.079;
                        57.090—
                        57.094;
                        57.105—
                        57.118;
                        57.130—
                        57.136;
                        57.150—
                        57.163;
                        57.175—
                        57.177;
                        57.190—
                        57.192;
06-0383     3-15-2006   57.205—
                        57.210;
                        57.225—
                        57.229;
                        57.240—
                        57.245;
                        57.260—
                        57.264;
                        57.275—
                        57.283;
                        57.295—
                        57.302;
                        57.315—
                        57.321;
                        57.335—
                        57.338;
                        57.350;
                        57.999;
                        Ch. 57, App. A;
                        Ch. 57, App. B;
                        Ch. 57, App. C;
                        Ch. 57, App. D;
                        Ch. 57, App. E;
                        156.05
06-0385     3-15-2006   TSO Table II
06-0386     3-15-2006   TSO Table XVII
06-0387     3-22-2006   TSO Table VII
06-0393     4-5-2006    78.01
06-0394     4-5-2006    132.046;
                        132.999
06-0395     4-5-2006    44.140
                        50.001—
06-392      4-5-2006    50.003;
                        50.999
06-0398     4-19-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0401     4-19-2006   44.106
06-0402     4-19-2006   50.052;
                        51.23
05-0317     5-3-2006    TSO Table I
05-0318     5-3-2006    TSO Table XI
05-0319     5-3-2006    TSO Table I
05-0320     5-3-2006    TSO Table XI
06-0405     5-3-2006    TSO Table I
06-0407     5-3-2006    TSO Table XIII
06-0408     5-3-2006    TSO Table VII
06-0409     5-3-2006    TSO Table VII
06-0410     5-3-2006    TSO Table VII
06-0411     5-3-2006    Ch. 79, Schd. IX
06-0412     5-3-2006    TSO Table I
06-0384     5-17-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0399     5-17-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0404     5-17-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0406     5-17-2006   TSO Table XI
06-0413     5-17-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0414     5-17-2006   TSO Table XIV
06-0388     6-7-2006    157.208
06-0416     6-7-2006    TSO Table VII
06-0417     6-7-2006    112.055
06-0418     6-21-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0419     6-21-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0421     7-19-2006   TSO Table XII
06-0425     7-19-2006   TSO Table XII
06-0427     7-19-2006   Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. VI
06-0430     7-19-2006   112.052
06-0433     8-2-2006    TSO Table XIII
06-0436     8-16-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0437     8-16-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0438     8-16-2006   44.195—
                        44.200
06-0428     9-20-2006   150.04
06-0441     9-20-2006   TSO Table I
06-0442     9-20-2006   TSO Table I
06-0443     9-20-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0444     9-20-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0448     9-20-2006   TSO Table I
06-0451     9-20-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0453     9-20-2006   TSO Table XI
06-0454     9-20-2006   TSO Table XII
06-0455     9-20-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0456     9-20-2006   112.055
06-0457     10-18-2006  TSO Table XII
06-0460     10-18-2006  132.078
06-0460     10-18-2006  132.999
06-0461     10-18-2006  TSO Table XIII
06-0422     11-1-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0462     11-1-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0465     11-1-2006   TSO Table XIII
06-0467     11-1-2006   TSO Table VIII
06-0468     11-1-2006   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
06-0469     11-1-2006   73.02
06-0470     11-1-2006   Ch. 79, Schd. IX
06-0471     11-1-2006   112.035
06-0472     11-1-2006   112.053
06-0473     11-15-2006  TSO Table VIII
06-0474     11-15-2006  Ch. 37, App. A, Exh. A
06-0475     11-15-2006  112.053
                        91.60;
06-0481     12-6-2006   150.25;
                        153.31
06-0482     12-6-2006   TSO Table II
                        53.16;
                        53.20;
06-0485     12-6-2006   53.21;
                        53.50;
                        53.52
06-0486     12-6-2006   50.085—
                        50.090
06-0487     12-6-2006   43.02
06-0488     12-20-2006  112.053
06-0491     12-20-2006  TSO Table XVII
06-0493     12-20-2006  TSO Table XVII
06-0494     12-20-2006  TSO Table XVII
06-0496     12-20-2006  TSO Table XVII
06-0498     12-20-2006  TSO Table XVII
06-0499     12-20-2006  TSO Table XVII
06-0500     12-20-2006  TSO Table XVII
06-0501     12-20-2006  TSO Table XVII
06-0502     1-17-2007   TSO Table XIII
06-0505     1-17-2007   TSO Table I
06-0507     1-17-2007   78.10
06-0506     2-7-2007    TSO Table XIII
07-0508     2-21-2007   157.098
                        157.003;
                        157.020;
                        157.022—
                        157.028;
                        157.043;
                        157.062;
                        157.064;
                        157.069;
                        157.071;
                        157.075—
                        157.083;
                        157.095;
07-0508     2-21-2007   157.096;
                        157.098—
                        157.100;
                        157.102—
                        157.105;
                        157.107—
                        157.109;
                        157.121;
                        157.141;
                        157.200;
                        157.202;
                        157.207—
                        157.209
                        157.003;
                        157.095;
07-0509     2-21-2007   157.097—
                        157.099;
                        157.101
07-0512     2-21-2007   TSO Table II
07-0513     3-7-2007    TSO Table XIII
07-0515     3-7-2007    91.30
07-0516     3-7-2007    32.001
07-0517     3-21-2007   TSO Table XIII
07-0518     3-21-2007   TSO Table XI
07-0519     3-21-2007   157.102
07-0520     3-21-2007   TSO Table II
07-0521     3-21-2007   73.02
07-0522     4-4-2007    TSO Table XIII
07-0523     4-4-2007    TSO Table VI
07-0525     4-18-2007   73.02
07-0526     4-18-2007   TSO Table VII
07-0529     5-2-2007    TSO Table XIII
07-0530     5-2-2007    36.047;
                        36.048
07-0533     5-16-2007   TSO Table XI
07-0537     5-16-2007   TSO Table I
07-0538     5-16-2007   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
                        156.42;
07-0541     6-6-2007    156.43;
                        Ch. 156, App. A;
                        Ch. 156, App. B
07-0542     6-6-2007    Ch. 79, Schd. VI
07-0543     6-6-2007    TSO Table VII
07-0534     6-20-2007   TSO Table XIII
07-0544     6-20-2007   TSO Table XIII
07-0545     6-20-2007   TSO Table XIII
07-0546     6-20-2007   TSO Table XII 
07-0547     6-20-2007   TSO Table I
07-0550     7-18-2007   157.003
07-0550     7-18-2007   157.027
07-0551     7-18-2007   157.027
07-0552     7-18-2007   157.027
07-0553     7-18-2007   157.027
07-0554     7-18-2007   157.042
07-0555     7-18-2007   157.074
07-0556     7-18-2007   157.083
07-0557     7-18-2007   157.208
07-0558     7-18-2007   157.208
07-0559     7-18-2007   TSO Table XIII
07-0561     7-18-2007   36.010
07-0563     7-18-2007   54.024;
                        54.026
07-0565     7-18-2007   TSO Table II
07-0567     8-1-2007    TSO Table XIII
07-0572     8-1-2007    TSO Table XIII
07-0573     8-1-2007    TSO Table XIII
07-0575     8-15-2007   TSO Table XIII
07-0576     8-15-2007   TSO Table XIII
07-0577     8-15-2007   TSO Table II
07-0569     9-5-2007    TSO Table I
07-0570     9-5-2007    TSO Table XI
07-0578     9-5-2007    TSO Table XI
07-0579     9-5-2007    TSO Table I
07-0580     9-19-2007   TSO Table XI
07-0581     9-19-2007   TSO Table XIII
07-0582     9-19-2007   TSO Table XI
07-0583     9-19-2007   TSO Table XIII
07-0584     9-19-2007   TSO Table XIII
07-0585     9-19-2007   TSO Table I
07-0589     9-19-2007   TSO Table I
07-0590     9-19-2007   112.053
82          10-2-2007   11.01
07-0594     10-3-2007   157.042
07-0571     10-17-2007  TSO Table XIII
07-0596     10-17-2007  TSO Table XIII
07-0597     10-17-2007  Ch. 79, Schd. I
07-0598     11-7-2007   TSO Table VIII
07-0601     11-7-2007   32.001
07-0604     11-7-2007   112.053
07-0606     11-7-2007   116.01—
                        116.07
                        55.01—
07-0607     11-7-2007   55.22;
                        55.99
07-0608     11-7-2007   116.20—
                        116.23
07-0609     11-21-2007  TSO Table XIII
07-0610     11-21-2007  30.01
07-0612     11-21-2007  TSO Table II
07-0613     12-5-2007   TSO Table XII
                        157.003;
                        157.041;
                        157.097;
07-0599     12-19-2007  157.098;
                        157.100;
                        157.123;
                        157.124
07-0615     12-19-2007  TSO Table XVII
07-0616     12-19-2007  TSO Table XVII
07-0617     12-19-2007  TSO Table XVII
07-0618     12-19-2007  TSO Table XVII
07-0619     12-19-2007  TSO Table XVII
07-0620     12-19-2007  TSO Table XVII
07-0621     12-19-2007  TSO Table XVII
07-0622     12-19-2007  TSO Table XVII
07-0625     1-16-2008   112.055
08-0627     1-16-2008   Ch. 79, Schd. I
08-0629     2-6-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0630     2-6-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0631     2-6-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0632     2-6-2008    112.055
08-0634     2-20-2008   TSO Table XI
08-0635     2-20-2008   TSO Table XIII
08-0636     3-5-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0640     3-5-2008    TSO Table XI
08-0641     3-5-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0643     3-19-2008   112.055
08-0644     4-2-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0645     4-2-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0646     4-16-2008   150.04
08-0649     4-16-2008   TSO Table XVII
08-0650     4-16-2008   TSO Table II
08-0658     5-7-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0659     5-7-2008    TSO Table VIII
08-0662     5-7-2008    112.055
                        157.096—
08-0651     5-21-2008   157.098;
                        157.100;
                        157.101
08-0652     5-21-2008   157.103
08-0653     5-21-2008   157.074
08-0654     5-21-2008   157.205
08-0655     5-21-2008   157.123
08-0657     5-21-2008   157.208
08-0664     5-21-2008   TSO Table XI
08-0665     5-21-2008   TSO Table XIII
                        91.70—
08-0670     5-21-2008   91.72;
                        91.74;
                        91.75
08-0677     6-4-2008    36.010
08-0680     6-18-2008   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
08-0681     6-18-2008   TSO Table XIII
08-0682     6-18-2008   TSO Table XIII
08-0685     7-2-2008    91.70;
                        91.72
08-0686     7-16-2008   TSO Table XIII
08-0690     8-6-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0691     8-6-2008    Ch. 79, Schd. I
08-0692     8-6-2008    78.02;
                        78.10
08-0693     8-6-2008    TSO Table VIII
08-0694     8-6-2008    134.03
08-0697     8-6-2008    TSO Table VII
08-0696     8-20-2008   TSO Table XIII
                        157.075—
08-0698     8-20-2008   157.081;
                        157.083
08-0700     8-20-2008   TSO Table XIV
08-0699     9-3-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0701     9-3-2008    TSO Table XIII
08-0702     9-3-2008    157.083
08-0703     9-3-2008    TSO Table X
08-0706     9-3-2008    58.045
08-0707     9-3-2008    112.055
08-0711     9-17-2008   TSO Table XII
08-0719     10-15-2008  Ch. 79, Schd. I
08-0720     10-15-2008  TSO Table XIII
08-0723     10-15-2008  36.065—
                        36.071
08-0721     11-5-2008   TSO Table XIII
08-0708     11-19-2008  35.185—
                        35.187
                        157.003;
08-0715     11-19-2008  157.020;
                        157.042;
                        157.097
08-0672     12-3-2008   TSO Table I
08-0730     12-3-2008   TSO Table II
08-0731     12-17-2008  TSO Table XIII
08-0732     12-17-2008  TSO Table XIII
08-0734     12-17-2008  TSO Table XVII
08-0735     12-17-2008  TSO Table XVII
08-0736     12-17-2008  TSO Table XVII
08-0737     12-17-2008  TSO Table XVII
08-0738     12-17-2008  TSO Table XVII
08-0739     12-17-2008  TSO Table XVII
08-0673     1-7-2009    TSO Table I
08-0674     1-7-2009    TSO Table XI
08-0675     1-7-2009    TSO Table XIII
08-0742     1-7-2009    TSO Table II
09-0743     1-21-2009   TSO Table XIII
09-0745     1-21-2009   TSO Table II
09-0746     2-4-2009    112.055
09-0747     2-4-2009    TSO Table V
09-0748     2-4-2009    92.004
09-0749     2-18-2009   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
09-0751     3-4-2009    Ch. 79, Schd. VI
09-0752     3-4-2009    TSO Table XVII
09-0750     3-18-2009   TSO Table XI
09-0753     3-18-2009   TSO Table XIII
09-0754     3-18-2009   112.053
09-0744     4-15-2009   157.037
09-0755     4-15-2009   TSO Table XIII
09-0757     4-15-2009   TSO Table XIII
09-0761     5-20-2009   TSO Table XIII
09-0764     5-20-2009   33.05
09-0767     5-20-2009   35.004
09-0768     6-3-2009    TSO Table XIII
09-0769     6-3-2009    TSO Table XIII
09-0771     6-3-2009    36.010
09-0758     6-17-2009   TSO Table XIII
09-0773     8-5-2009    TSO Table XII
09-0774     8-5-2009    91.70—
                        91.75
09-0776     8-5-2009    112.035
09-0777     8-5-2009    36.048
09-0778     8-5-2009    156.51
09-0780     9-2-2009    TSO Table XIII
09-0781     9-2-2009    TSO Table II
09-0782     9-2-2009    TSO Table VII
                        44.155—
09-0783     9-16-2009   44.158;
                        44.999
09-0784     9-16-2009   44.125;
                        44.126
09-0786     9-16-2009   94.15—
                        94.21
09-0789     10-7-2009   TSO Table VII
09-0790     10-7-2009   112.055
                        134.01;
                        134.02;
                        134.15—
                        134.17;
                        134.30—
09-0793     10-21-2009  134.32;
                        134.45—
                        134.52;
                        134.65—
                        134.68;
                        134.99
09-0791     11-18-2009  TSO Table XIII
09-0795     11-18-2009  44.155
09-0796     11-18-2009  44.125;
                        44.126
09-0797     11-18-2009  112.053
09-0798     12-2-2009   TSO Table VIII
09-0799     12-16-2009  157.020;
                        157.042
                        157.003;
                        157.022;
                        157.042;
                        157.075—
09-0800     12-16-2009  157.083;
                        157.096;
                        157.100;
                        157.104;
                        Ch. 157, App. A
09-0801     12-16-2009  112.055
09-0804     12-16-2009  TSO Table XVII
09-0805     12-16-2009  TSO Table XVII
09-0806     12-16-2009  TSO Table XVII
09-0807     12-16-2009  TSO Table XVII
09-0808     12-16-2009  TSO Table XVII
09-0809     12-16-2009  TSO Table XVII
09-0810     12-16-2009  TSO Table XVII
09-0811     12-16-2009  TSO Table XVII
09-0812     1-6-2010    112.053
10-0813     1-20-2010   TSO Table XIII
                        157.003;
10-0816     1-20-2010   157.098;
                        157.100
10-0819     2-3-2010    43.01;
                        43.02
10-0820     2-3-2010    36.010
10-0821     2-17-2010   TSO Table XIII
10-0822     3-3-2010    TSO Table I
10-0823     3-3-2010    TSO Table XI
10-0824     3-3-2010    TSO Table I
10-0825     3-3-2010    TSO Table XI
10-0826     3-3-2010    TSO Table I
10-0827     3-3-2010    TSO Table XI
10-0828     3-3-2010    TSO Table I
10-0829     3-3-2010    TSO Table I
10-0830     3-3-2010    TSO Table I
10-0831     3-3-2010    TSO Table I
10-0832     3-3-2010    TSO Table I
10-0833     3-3-2010    TSO Table I
10-0814     3-17-2010   TSO Table XIII
10-0815     3-17-2010   TSO Table XII
10-0817     3-17-2010   TSO Table XII
10-0818     3-17-2010   TSO Table XII
10-0834     3-17-2010   TSO Table XIII
10-0835     3-17-2010   TSO Table XI
10-0836     3-17-2010   112.053
10-0837     3-17-2010   112.053
10-0838     4-7-2010    112.053
10-0839     4-7-2010    43.02
10-0841     4-7-2010    44.174
10-0842     4-7-2010    44.197
10-0842     4-7-2010    44.200
10-0843     4-7-2010    44.140
10-0844     4-7-2010    50.052;
                        51.23
10-0845     4-7-2010    40.01;
                        40.02
10-0846     4-7-2010    73.11
10-0847     4-7-2010    120.34
10-0848     4-7-2010    43.01
10-0849     4-7-2010    133.02
10-0850     4-7-2010    TSO Table II
09-0787     5-5-2010    155.01—
                        155.04
09-0788     5-5-2010    155.03
10-0851     5-5-2010    TSO Table XIII
10-0855     5-5-2010    TSO Table XIII
10-0857     5-5-2010    32.001;
                        35.080
10-0858     5-19-2010   TSO Table XIII
10-0859     5-19-2010   136.14
10-0860     5-19-2010   134.04;
                        134.99
10-0862     5-19-2010   44.197;
                        44.200
10-0863     5-19-2010   Ch. 79, Schd. I
10-0854     6-9-2010    TSO Table XIII
10-0866     6-9-2010    TSO Table II
10-0867     7-7-2010    50.001
10-0868     7-21-2010   TSO Table XIII
10-0869     7-21-2010   TSO Table XIII
10-0870     8-4-2010    157.101
10-0871     8-4-2010    112.053
10-0873     8-4-2010    TSO Table II
10-0874     8-18-2010   112.053
10-0875     9-15-2010   TSO Table XIV
10-0876     9-15-2010   TSO Table XIV
10-0877     10-6-2010   TSO Table XII
10-0878     10-6-2010   TSO Table XII
10-0879     10-6-2010   92.136
10-0880     10-20-2010  TSO Table II
10-0881     10-20-2010  TSO Table II
10-0882     11-17-2010  TSO Table XV
10-0884     12-1-2010   TSO Table X
10-0889     12-8-2010   TSO Table XVII
10-0890     12-8-2010   TSO Table XVII
10-0891     12-8-2010   TSO Table XVII
10-0892     12-8-2010   TSO Table XVII
10-0893     12-8-2010   TSO Table XVII
10-0894     12-8-2010   TSO Table XVII
10-0895     12-8-2010   TSO Table XVII
10-0896     12-8-2010   112.055
11-0900     2-16-2011   TSO Table XIII
10-0885     3-2-2011    TSO Table XIII
11-0901     3-2-2011    TSO Table XII
11-0903     4-20-2011   TSO Table XIV
11-0906     4-20-2011   TSO Table II
11-0907     5-18-2011   TSO Table XI
11-0908     5-18-2011   TSO Table XIII
11-0911     6-1-2011    73.06;
                        73.99
11-0912     6-1-2011    36.010
11-0909     6-15-2011   TSO Table XIII
11-0910     6-15-2011   TSO Table XIII
11-0913     7-6-2011    112.053;
                        112.054
11-0914     7-20-2011   TSO Table XIV
11-0915     7-20-2011   TSO Table XIII
11-0916     7-20-2011   TSO Table XIII
11-0917     7-20-2011   112.055
11-0918     8-17-2011   43.01
11-0919     9-7-2011    TSO Table I
11-0920     9-7-2011    TSO Table XI
11-0921     9-7-2011    TSO Table XIII
                        91.00—
                        91.08;
                        91.15—
                        91.27;
                        91.30;
                        91.35;
                        91.36;
                        91.45—
11-0923     9-21-2011   91.60;
                        91.70—
                        91.75;
                        91.99;
                        150.01—
                        150.11;
                        150.25—
                        150.33;
                        150.99
                        157.028;
                        157.068;
                        157.075—
11-0924     10-5-2011   157.083;
                        157.096—
                        157.101;
                        157.103—
                        157.105
11-0925     10-5-2011   157.105
11-0926     10-5-2011   157.042
                        73.02;
11-0928     10-5-2011   Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. IX
11-0933     11-2-2011   43.01
                        91.00—
                        91.08;
                        91.15—
                        91.27;
                        91.30;
                        91.35;
11-0935     11-2-2011   91.36;
                        91.45—
                        91.47;
                        91.49—
                        91.60;
                        91.99;
                        Ch. 91, App. A
11-0938     11-2-2011   157.221
                        35.001;
11-0938     11-2-2011   35.037;
                        35.167
11-0939     11-2-2011   44.181
11-0941     11-16-2011  32.001
11-0946     12-21-2011  TSO Table XVII
11-0947     12-21-2011  TSO Table XVII
11-0948     12-21-2011  TSO Table XVII
11-0949     12-21-2011  TSO Table XVII
11-0950     12-21-2011  TSO Table XVII
11-0951     12-21-2011  TSO Table XVII
11-0952     12-21-2011  TSO Table XVII
11-0954     12-21-2011  TSO Table XVII
11-0955     12-21-2011  TSO Table II
12-0964     1-18-2012   112.055
12-0965     2-1-2012    TSO Table XIII
12-0966     2-1-2012    TSO Table VII
12-0967     2-15-2012   Ch. 79, Schd. I
12-0968     3-7-2012    112.055
12-0969     3-21-2012   TSO Table XI
12-0970     3-21-2012   TSO Table XIII
12-0971     4-4-2012    TSO Table XIV
                        157.096;
12-0972     4-4-2012    157.104;
                        157.124
12-0973     4-4-2012    157.220—
                        157.229
12-0975     4-4-2012    35.035—
                        35.054
12-0976     4-4-2012    TSO Table II
12-0974     4-18-2012   155.03
12-0978     4-18-2012   112.053;
                        112.054
                        157.003;
12-0984     5-2-2012    157.061;
                        157.068;
                        157.101
12-0985     5-2-2012    TSO Table II
12-0986     5-2-2012    112.050
                        153.30;
                        153.31;
12-0987     5-2-2012    153.32;
                        153.34;
                        153.99
12-0988     6-6-2012    TSO Table XII
12-0994     6-20-2012   36.010
12-0995     6-20-2012   36.053;
                        37.141
12-0989     7-11-2012   TSO Table XIII
12-0992     7-11-2012   TSO Table XIII
12-0993     7-11-2012   TSO Table XIII
12-0996     7-11-2012   TSO Table I
12-0997     7-11-2012   TSO Table XI
12-0998     7-11-2012   TSO Table XIII
12-1001     7-11-2012   TSO Table I
12-0990     7-18-2012   157.099
12-0991     7-18-2012   TSO Table XIII
12-0999     7-18-2012   TSO Table XIII
12-1002     7-18-2012   Ch. 79, Schd. I
12-1004     8-1-2012    TSO Table VII
12-1005     9-5-2012    TSO Table XIII
12-1006     9-5-2012    35.020;
                        31.021
12-1007     9-5-2012    TSO Table XVII
12-1008     9-19-2012   TSO Table II
12-1010     10-2-2012   TSO Table XIII
12-1011     10-2-2012   112.055
12-1012     10-17-2012  Ch. 79, Schd. X
12-1015     10-17-2012  TSO Table II
                        157.037;
12-1013     11-7-2012   157.221;
                        157.224;
                        157.225
                        156.01—
                        156.05;
                        156.20—
                        156.25;
12-1014     11-7-2012   156.40—
                        156.51;
                        156.999;
                        Ch. 156, App. A;
                        Ch. 156, App. B
                        91.00—
                        91.05;
                        91.07;
                        91.08;
                        91.15—
                        91.27;
                        91.30;
12-1016     11-7-2012   91.35;
                        91.36;
                        91.45—
                        91.60;
                        91.70—
                        91.75;
                        91.99;
                        Ch. 91, App. A
12-1017     11-7-2012   43.03;
                        43.05
12-1018     11-7-2012   43.01;
                        91.06
12-1019     12-5-2012   TSO Table XIII
                        111.01;
                        112.001;
12-1021     12-19-2012  112.051;
                        112.054;
                        138.01;
                        157.097
12-1024     12-19-2012  TSO Table XVII
12-1025     12-19-2012  TSO Table XVII
12-1026     12-19-2012  TSO Table XVII
12-1027     12-19-2012  TSO Table XVII
12-1028     12-19-2012  TSO Table XVII
12-1029     12-19-2012  TSO Table XVII
12-1032     12-19-2012  112.055
13-1035     1-2-2013    TSO Table II
13-1036     1-16-2013   112.055
-           2-6-2013    TSO Table II
13-1037     2-6-2013    Ch. 79, Schd. VI
13-1039     2-20-2013   TSO Table II
13-1040     3-6-2013    TSO Table XIII
13-1042     5-15-2013   TSO Table XI
13-1045     5-15-2013   TSO Table XI
13-1047     6-17-2013   TSO Table II
13-1050     6-17-2013   36.010
13-1053     7-2-2013    TSO Table XIII
13-1054     7-2-2013    TSO Table XIII
13-1055     7-2-2013    TSO Table XIII
13-1056     7-2-2013    TSO Table X
13-1058     7-17-2013   112.055
13-1059     8-7-2013    36.048
13-1049     9-4-2013    Ch. 79, Schd. VI
13-1061     9-4-2013    Ch. 79, Schd. VI
13-1063     9-8-2013    112.055
13-1067     10-9-2013   112.055
13-1066     10-16-2013  TSO Table XI
13-1068     10-23-2013  TSO Table XIII
13-1069     11-20-2013  TSO Table XIII
13-1073     12-18-2013  112.053
13-1075     12-18-2013  TSO Table XVII
13-1076     12-18-2013  TSO Table XVII
13-1077     12-18-2013  TSO Table XVII
13-1078     12-18-2013  TSO Table XVII
13-1079     12-18-2013  TSO Table XVII
13-1080     12-18-2013  TSO Table XVII
13-1081     12-18-2013  TSO Table XVII
13-1082     12-18-2013  TSO Table XVII
13-1083     12-18-2013  TSO Table XVII
13-1084     12-18-2013  TSO Table XVII
14-1085     1-15-2014   112.055
14-1087     1-15-2014   TSO Table II
                        157.003;
                        157.096—
14-1086     2-5-2014    157.098;
                        157.100;
                        157.104;
                        157.105
14-1088     2-5-2014    TSO Table XIII
14-1089     2-5-2014    Ch. 79, Schd. I
14-1090     2-5-2014    44.106
14-1091     2-5-2014    112.055
14-1092     2-5-2014    112.052
14-1093     2-5-2014    112.055
14-1094     2-5-2014    TSO Table VII
14-1095     2-19-2014   57.240;
                        57.263
14-1096     3-5-2014    112.053
14-1097     3-19-2014   157.098
14-1098     3-19-2014   TSO Table XIII
13-1064     4-2-2014    TSO Table XIII
14-1103     4-2-2014    TSO Table XI
14-1104     4-2-2014    TSO Table XIII
14-1105     4-2-2014    44.156
14-1109     4-2-2014    112.053
14-1111     4-2-2014    43.02;
                        43.03
14-1112     4-2-2014    58.006
14-1114     4-16-2014   112.009;
                        112.053
14-1117     5-7-2014    TSO Table X
14-1119     5-21-2014   TSO Table I
                        153.01;
14-1120     5-21-2014   153.15;
                        153.17;
                        153.34
14-1121     6-4-2014    36.010
14-1118     6-18-2014   TSO Table XIII
14-1122     6-18-2014   TSO Table XIV
14-1124     7-2-2014    TSO Table XIII
14-1125     7-2-2014    Ch. 79, Schd. VI
14-1126     7-2-2014    TSO Table XIII
                        30.03;
14-1129     7-14-2014   Ch. 30, App. A;
                        Ch. 30, App. B
14-1127     7-16-2014   91.70—
                        91.73
14-1128     7-16-2014   156.25
14-1130     8-20-2014   TSO Table I
14-1132     8-20-2014   TSO Table XIII
14-1133     8-20-2014   TSO Table I
14-1135     9-17-2014   112.055
                        Ch. 30, App. A;
14-1136     9-17-2014   Ch. 30, App. B;
                        157.229
                        73.11;
                        78.01;
14-1108     10-1-2014   Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. II;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. V
14-1137     10-1-2014   TSO Table XIII
14-1141     10-1-2014   TSO Table XIII
14-1142     10-1-2014   TSO Table II
14-1145     11-5-2014   TSO Table XIII
14-1146     12-3-2014   112.055
14-1148     12-3-2014   TSO Table XIII
14-1150     12-3-2014   32.038;
                        43.03
14-1153     12-17-2014  TSO Table XVII
14-1154     12-17-2014  TSO Table XVII
14-1155     12-17-2014  TSO Table XVII
14-1156     12-17-2014  TSO Table XVII
14-1157     12-17-2014  TSO Table XVII
14-1158     12-17-2014  TSO Table XVII
14-1159     12-17-2014  TSO Table XVII
14-1160     12-17-2014  TSO Table XVII
14-1161     12-17-2014  TSO Table XVII
14-1162     12-17-2014  TSO Table XVII
14-1163     12-17-2014  TSO Table XIII
14-1167     12-17-2014  TSO Table II
15-1168     1-21-2015   35.200—
                        35.202
15-1169     1-21-2015   112.055
15-1170     1-21-2015   43.02
15-1171     1-21-2015   Ch. 79, Schd. II
14-1147     2-4-2015    TSO Table XIII
15-1176     2-4-2015    94.35—
                        94.38
15-1178     2-18-2015   43.04
15-1179     3-18-2015   TSO Table XI
15-1180     3-18-2015   157.097
15-1181     3-18-2015   157.042
15-1182     3-18-2015   Ch. 79, Schd. I
                        112.009;
15-1183     3-18-2015   112.053;
                        112.054
15-1184     4-15-2015   TSO Table II
15-1173     5-6-2015    TSO Table I
15-1174     5-6-2015    TSO Table XI
15-1175     5-6-2015    TSO Table XIII
15-1186     5-6-2015    TSO Table I
15-1187     6-3-2015    36.010
15-1189     6-16-2015   44.170
14-1138     7-1-2015    TSO Table I
14-1139     7-1-2015    TSO Table XI
14-1140     7-1-2015    TSO Table XIII
15-1191     7-1-2015    TSO Table I
15-1192     7-1-2015    TSO Table XI
15-1193     7-1-2015    TSO Table XIII
15-1194     7-1-2015    Ch. 79, Schd. I
15-1195     7-1-2015    TSO Table I
15-1196     7-1-2015    112.055
15-1197     7-1-2015    TSO Table I
15-1198     7-15-2015   112.055
15-1200     8-5-2015    112.053;
                        112.054
15-1201     8-5-2015    TSO Table XIII
15-1202     8-5-2015    TSO Table XIII
15-1203     8-5-2015    TSO Table XI
15-1204     8-5-2015    TSO Table XIII
15-1205     8-5-2015    TSO Table XIII
15-1206     8-5-2015    TSO Table XIII
                        112.001;
15-1207     8-5-2015    112.010;
                        112.067
15-1209     8-5-2015    44.140;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. I
15-1211     9-2-2015    TSO Table XIII
15-1213     9-2-2015    TSO Table XI
15-1214     9-2-2015    TSO Table XIII
15-1216     9-8-2015    112.055
                        157.003;
15-1190     9-16-2015   157.155—
                        157.167
15-1217     9-16-2015   TSO Table XIII
15-1218     9-16-2015   112.055
15-1212     10-5-2015   TSO Table XIII
15-1219     10-21-2015  TSO Table XII
15-1220     10-21-2015  TSO Table XIII
15-1222     10-21-2015  TSO Table XIII
15-1223     10-21-2015  TSO Table XI
15-1224     10-21-2015  TSO Table XIII
15-1225     11-4-2015   TSO Table I
15-1226     11-4-2015   TSO Table XI
15-1227     11-4-2015   TSO Table II
15-1228     11-4-2015   TSO Table I
                        157.003;
                        157.020;
                        157.021;
15-1229     11-18-2015  157.037;
                        157.042;
                        157.097;
                        157.158
15-1230     11-18-2015  TSO Table XIII
                        43.01;
15-1231     11-18-2015  112.053;
                        112.054
15-1232     11-18-2015  112.055
15-1233     11-18-2015  35.001
15-1234     11-18-2015  TSO Table VII
15-1239     12-2-2015   TSO Table I
15-1215     12-16-2015  TSO Table XIII
15-1241     12-16-2015  TSO Table XVII
15-1242     12-16-2015  TSO Table XVII
15-1243     12-16-2015  TSO Table XVII
15-1244     12-16-2015  TSO Table XVII
15-1245     12-16-2015  TSO Table XVII
15-1246     12-16-2015  TSO Table XVII
15-1247     12-16-2015  TSO Table XVII
15-1248     12-16-2015  TSO Table XVII
15-1249     12-16-2015  TSO Table XVII
15-1254     12-23-2015  TSO Table I
15-1250     1-6-2016    TSO Table I
15-1251     1-6-2016    TSO Table XI
15-1252     1-6-2016    TSO Table XIII
15-1235     1-20-2016   TSO Table I
15-1236     1-20-2016   TSO Table XI
15-1237     1-20-2016   TSO Table XIII
16-1257     2-17-2016   TSO Table XIII
16-1258     2-17-2016   112.052
16-1261     2-17-2016   TSO Table II
16-1259     3-2-2016    92.140
16-1260     3-2-2016    154.01—
                        154.09
16-1262     3-2-2016    112.051
16-1263     3-16-2016   TSO Table XII
16-1267     3-16-2016   TSO Table XI
16-1268     3-16-2016   112.053
16-1270     3-16-2016   TSO Table VII
16-1271     4-6-2016    Ch. 79, Schd. IX
16-1273     4-20-2016   112.051
16-1274     4-20-2016   112.051
16-1275     4-20-2016   112.051
16-1276     4-20-2016   73.02;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. I
16-1279     5-4-2016    TSO Table II
16-1280     5-4-2016    TSO Table II
16-1281     5-18-2016   TSO Table XI
16-1282     5-18-2016   TSO Table XIII
16-1283     5-18-2016   TSO Table XII
16-1284     5-18-2016   153.30
16-1285     5-18-2016   TSO Table I
16-1287     6-8-2016    36.010
16-1264     7-6-2016    TSO Table XI
16-1265     7-6-2016    TSO Table XIII
16-1266     7-6-2016    TSO Table XIII
16-1289     7-6-2016    TSO Table XIII
16-1290     7-6-2016    157.098
16-1291     7-6-2016    TSO Table XIII
16-1292     7-6-2016    TSO Table I
16-1293     7-6-2016    TSO Table XI
16-1294     7-6-2016    TSO Table XIII
16-1295     7-6-2016    TSO Table XIII
16-1297     7-6-2016    TSO Table XIII
16-1298     7-6-2016    153.01
16-1299     7-6-2016    112.051
16-1300     7-6-2016    TSO Table I
16-1301     7-6-2016    TSO Table X
16-1303     7-20-2016   Ch. 79, Schd. XI
16-1303     7-20-2016   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
16-1296     8-17-2016   78.10
16-1305     8-17-2016   112.054
                        157.003;
                        157.027;
16-1306     9-7-2016    157.095;
                        157.100;
                        157.102;
                        157.103
16-1307     9-7-2016    TSO Table XI
16-1309     9-7-2016    TSO Table XII
16-1310     9-7-2016    TSO Table XIII
16-1311     9-7-2016    TSO Table XIII
16-1313     9-7-2016    TSO Table XII
16-1314     9-7-2016    134.45
16-1316     9-7-2016    156.05;
                        156.24
16-1317     9-21-2016   TSO Table XII
16-1319     9-21-2016   153.18
16-1320     9-21-2016   TSO Table II
16-1321     10-5-2016   TSO Table XIII
16-1322     10-5-2016   154.04;
                        154.05
16-1323     10-18-2016  112.054
16-1324     10-18-2016  TSO Table VII
16-1325     11-2-2016   TSO Table XIII
16-1328     11-16-2016  TSO Table XIII
16-1329     11-16-2016  TSO Table XIII
16-1331     12-7-2016   TSO Table XVII
16-1332     12-7-2016   TSO Table XVII
16-1333     12-7-2016   TSO Table XVII
16-1334     12-7-2016   TSO Table XVII
16-1335     12-7-2016   TSO Table XVII
16-1336     12-7-2016   TSO Table XVII
16-1337     12-7-2016   TSO Table XVII
16-1338     12-7-2016   TSO Table XVII
16-1339     12-7-2016   TSO Table XVII
16-1340     12-7-2016   TSO Table XVII
16-1342     1-4-2017    TSO Table XIII
16-1343     1-4-2017    TSO Table XIII
17-1344     1-4-2017    112.055
17-1349     1-25-2017   154.04;
                        154.05
17-1345     2-1-2017    TSO Table XIII
17-1346     2-1-2017    TSO Table XIII
17-1348     2-1-2017    157.027
17-1350     2-1-2017    TSO Table I
17-1351     2-15-2017   Ch. 79, Schd. II
                        91.00—
                        91.08;
                        91.15—
                        91.27;
                        91.30; 91.5;
                        91.36;
                        91.45—
                        91.61;
                        91.70—
17-1347     3-1-2017    91.75;
                        91.99;
                        Ch. 91, App. A;
                        150.01—
                        150.14;
                        150.25—
                        150.33;
                        150.99;
                        151.01—
                        151.06
17-1352     3-1-2017    TSO Table XIII
17-1353     3-1-2017    112.055
17-1354     3-1-2017    TSO Table I
17-1355     3-1-2017    43.02;
                        92.023
17-1356     4-5-2017    43.03
17-1357     4-5-2017    TSO Table XI
17-1358     4-5-2017    TSO Table XII
17-1360     4-5-2017    112.055
16-1326     5-3-2017    TSO Table I
16-1327     5-3-2017    TSO Table XIII
17-1363     5-3-2017    TSO Table VII
17-1365     5-3-2017    TSO Table XIII
17-1367     5-3-2017    153.01;
                        154.03
17-1375     5-17-2017   157.098
17-1378     5-17-2017   112.055
17-1379     5-17-2017   112.055
                        43.01;
                        90.003;
                        90.004;
                        90.021;
                        90.041—
17-1377     6-7-2017    90.044;
                        90.046—
                        90.056;
                        90.087;
                        90.105—
                        90.109
17-1380     6-7-2017    36.010
                        41.01—
17-1382     6-21-2017   41.25;
                        Ch. 41, App. A
                        78.30—
17-1383     6-21-2017   78.40;
                        78.99;
                        Ch. 78, App. A
                        75.01—
17-1385     6-21-2017   75.16;
                        75.99
17-1386     6-21-2017   43.04
17-1387     6-21-2017   Ch. 40, App. A
17-1390     6-21-2017   112.055
17-1364     7-19-2017   TSO Table XIII
17-1384     7-19-2017   TSO Table XIII
17-1391     7-19-2017   154.09
17-1392     7-19-2017   TSO Table XIII
17-1393     8-16-2017   TSO Table I
17-1394     8-16-2017   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
17-1395     8-16-2017   TSO Table VIII
17-1396     8-16-2017   TSO Table VII
17-1398     9-6-2017    50.032
17-1400     9-6-2017    133.16
17-1401     9-6-2017    112.055
17-1388     9-20-2017   43.03
17-1402     9-20-2017   40.01;
                        40.03
17-1405     9-20-2017   50.052;
                        51.23
17-1406     9-20-2017   Ch. 79, Schd. I;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. VI
17-1409     9-20-2017   TSO Table II
17-1410     9-20-2017   TSO Table II
17-1407     10-4-2017   TSO Table II
17-1408     10-4-2017   TSO Table II
17-1412     10-18-2017  TSO Table XIII
17-1414     10-18-2017  TSO Table II
17-1415     11-1-2017   TSO Table I
17-1413     11-15-2017  TSO Table XIII
17-1417     11-6-2017   112.055
17-1359     12-6-2017   TSO Table I
17-1361     12-6-2017   TSO Table XI
17-1418     12-6-2017   TSO Table XIII
17-1419     12-6-2017   157.044
17-1420     12-6-2017   157.045
17-1421     12-6-2017   112.055
17-1423     12-6-2017   154.07
17-1427     12-6-2017   TSO Table I
17-1428     12-6-2017   TSO Table XI
17-1429     12-6-2017   TSO Table XIII
17-1430     12-6-2017   Ch. 79, Schd. I
17-1434     12-6-2017   TSO Table XVII
17-1435     12-6-2017   TSO Table XVII
17-1436     12-6-2017   TSO Table XVII
17-1437     12-6-2017   TSO Table XVII
17-1438     12-6-2017   TSO Table XVII
17-1439     12-6-2017   TSO Table XVII
17-1440     12-6-2017   TSO Table XVII
17-1441     12-6-2017   TSO Table I
17-1442     12-6-2017   TSO Table I
17-1424     12-20-2017  TSO Table I
17-1425     12-20-2017  TSO Table XI
17-1426     12-20-2017  TSO Table XIII
17-1443     12-20-2017  112.054
17-1444     12-20-2017  TSO Table II
18-1446     1-17-2018   TSO Table I
18-1447     1-17-2018   TSO Table I
18-1448     1-17-2018   TSO Table I
18-1449     1-17-2018   TSO Table I
18-1450     1-17-2018   TSO Table I
                        43.01;
18-1457     1-17-2018   73.14;
                        73.15
                        Ch. 79, Schd. III;
18-1458     1-17-2018   Ch. 79, Schd. IV;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. X
18-1459     2-7-2018    114.05;
                        114.08
                        Ch. 41, App. A;
                        43.01;
18-1460     2-7-2018    113.01—
                        113.11;
                        113.99
18-1463     2-7-2018    112.055
18-1464     2-7-2018    TSO Table II
18-1465     2-21-2018   TSO Table XIII
18-1466     2-21-2018   TSO Table XI
18-1467     2-21-2018   TSO Table VII
18-1468     2-21-2018   112.055
18-1469     3-7-2018    TSO Table XIII
18-1470     3-21-2018   TSO Table XIII
18-1471     3-21-2018   112.055
18-1474     4-4-2018    44.140
18-1475     4-18-2018   TSO Table XIII
18-1476     4-18-2018   TSO Table XIII
18-1477     4-18-2018   112.054
18-1480     5-2-2018    Ch. 79, Schd. VI
18-1481     5-2-2018    32.038
                        157.062;
                        157.068;
                        157.075—
                        157.083;
                        157.096;
18-1482     5-16-2018   157.099;
                        157.100;
                        157.101;
                        157.103;
                        157.104;
                        157.109
18-1484     6-20-2018   36.010
18-1488     6-20-2018   TSO Table II
18-1485     7-18-2018   TSO Table XIII
18-1489     7-18-2018   TSO Table XI
18-1490     7-18-2018   56.01—
                        56.12
18-1491     7-18-2018   42.01—
                        42.04
18-1496     8-15-2018   37.142;
                        37.144
18-1492     9-5-2018    TSO Table XII
18-1495     9-5-2018    TSO Table XIII
18-1497     9-5-2018    TSO Table XIII
18-1498     9-5-2018    TSO Table XIII
18-1499     9-19-2018   Ch. 41, App. A
18-1500     9-19-2018   121.01
18-1501     9-19-2018   43.02
18-1502     9-19-2018   90.049
18-1504     9-19-2018   73.15
18-1505     9-19-2018   43.01
18-1506     10-3-2018   TSO Table XIII
18-1507     10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-1508     10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-1509     10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-1510     10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-1511     10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-1512     10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-1513     10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-1514     10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-1515     10-3-2018   TSO Table II
18-1516     11-7-2018   TSO Table XIII
18-1519     11-7-2018   TSO Table II
18-1520     11-7-2018   TSO Table XII
18-1521     11-7-2018   TSO Table XI
18-1524     12-5-2018   TSO Table XVII
18-1525     12-5-2018   TSO Table XVII
18-1526     12-5-2018   TSO Table XVII
18-1527     12-5-2018   TSO Table XVII
18-1528     12-5-2018   TSO Table XVII
18-1529     12-5-2018   TSO Table XVII
18-1530     12-5-2018   TSO Table XVII
18-1517     12-19-2018  TSO Table XI
18-1518     12-19-2018  TSO Table XIII
18-1531     12-19-2018  Ch. 40, App. A
19-1538     1-6-2019    TSO Table II
                        57.002;
                        57.031;
                        57.036;
                        57.075;
19-1532     1-16-2019   57.131;
                        57.132;
                        57.154;
                        57.177;
                        57.350;
                        57.999
19-1533     1-16-2019   157.042;
                        157.098
19-1601     11-20-2019  TSO Table II
19-1602     11-20-2019  Ch. 79, Schd. I
19-1607     12-4-2019   TSO Table XVII
19-1608     12-4-2019   TSO Table XVII
19-1609     12-4-2019   TSO Table XVII
19-1610     12-4-2019   TSO Table XVII
19-1611     12-4-2019   TSO Table XVII
19-1612     12-4-2019   TSO Table XVII
19-1613     12-4-2019   TSO Table XVII
19-1614     12-4-2019   TSO Table XVII
19-1615     12-4-2019   TSO Table XVII
19-1616     12-4-2019   112.055
19-1603     12-18-2019  57.999
19-1604     12-18-2019  157.097
19-1606     12-18-2019  157.100;
                        157.104
19-1618     12-18-2019  112.050
19-1535     2-6-2019    TSO Table XV
19-1536     2-6-2019    TSO Table XI
19-1540     2-6-2019    Ch. 79, Schd. VI;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. XI
19-1541     2-6-2019    42.04
19-1542     3-6-2019    TSO Table XI
19-1543     3-6-2019    78.10
                        90.050;
19-1544     3-6-2019    90.051;
                        90.053;
                        90.055
19-1545     3-20-2019   TSO Table XI
19-1546     3-20-2019   TSO Table XIII
19-1547     3-20-2019   TSO Table XI
19-1548     3-20-2019   TSO Table XIII
19-1549     3-20-2019   TSO Table II
19-1550     3-20-2019   112.007
19-1551     3-20-2019   112.051
19-1552     3-20-2019   112.051
19-1553     3-20-2019   112.051
19-1554     4-3-2019    35.185
19-1555     4-3-2019    157.071;
                        157.073
19-1556     4-3-2019    112.055
19-1562     4-3-2019    TSO Table II
19-1558     4-17-2019   112.055
19-1559     5-1-2019    TSO Table I
19-1560     5-1-2019    TSO Table XI
19-1561     5-1-2019    TSO Table XIII
19-1564     5-1-2019    157.097
19-1565     5-1-2019    92.003
                        42.02;
19-1566     5-1-2019    154.04;
                        154.08
19-1567     5-1-2019    TSO Table I
19-1563     5-15-2019   73.02
19-1570     5-15-2019   41.01—
                        41.25
19-1570     5-15-2019   Ch. 41, App. A;
                        Ch. 41, App. B
19-1571     6-5-2019    TSO Table XIII
19-1572     6-5-2019    TSO Table XIII
19-1573     6-5-2019    TSO Table I
19-1574     6-5-2019    136.60—
                        136.69
19-1577     6-19-2019   Ch. 79, Schd. IX
19-1583     7-7-2019    112.052
19-1579     7-17-2019   TSO Table XIII
19-1580     7-17-2019   TSO Table XIII
19-1581     7-17-2019   TSO Table VII
19-1582     7-17-2019   TSO Table VII
19-1584     7-17-2019   32.001
19-1585     8-7-2019    157.083
19-1586     8-7-2019    157.103
19-1587     8-7-2019    TSO Table VII
19-1588     8-7-2019    78.10
19-1589     8-7-2019    TSO Table II
19-1590     8-21-2019   TSO Table II
19-1591     8-21-2019   136.60
19-1592     9-18-2019   Ch. 37, App. A, Exh. A;
                        Ch. 37, App. A, Exh. B
19-1593     9-18-2019   44.128
19-1594     9-18-2019   112.055
19-1595     9-18-2019   112.053
20-1621     1-15-2020   90.048
20-1623     1-15-2020   112.055
20-1624     2-5-2020    Ch. 79, Schd. IX
19-1597     2-19-2020   TSO Table XIII
20-1625     2-19-2020   TSO Table I
20-1627     2-19-2020   TSO Table II
20-1628     4-1-2020    157.095;
                        157.102
20-1629     4-1-2020    TSO Table XI
20-1630     4-1-2020    TSO Table II
20-1634     5-6-2020    TSO Table II
20-1635     5-6-2020    154.04;
                        154.07
20-1636     5-20-2020   TSO Table VII
20-1646     6-17-2020   TSO Table I
20-1648     7-15-2020   112.055
20-1651     7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-1652     7-15-2020   TSO Table II
20-1641     8-19-2020   TSO Table I
20-1642     8-19-2020   TSO Table XI
20-1643     8-19-2020   TSO Table XIII
20-1649     8-19-2020   TSO Table XI
20-1650     8-19-2020   TSO Table XIII
20-1653     8-19-2020   33.05;
                        33.20
20-1656     9-2-2020    TSO Table II
20-1658     9-16-2020   TSO Table II
20-1659     10-21-2020  TSO Table XIII
20-1660     10-21-2020  112.055
20-1661     11-4-2020   36.053
20-1662     11-4-2020   43.01
20-1663     11-18-2020  TSO Table II
20-1672     11-18-2020  Ch. 79, Schd. VI
20-1673     11-18-2020  43.03
20-1665     12-2-2020   TSO Table XVII
20-1666     12-2-2020   TSO Table XVII
20-1667     12-2-2020   TSO Table XVII
20-1668     12-2-2020   TSO Table XVII
20-1669     12-2-2020   TSO Table XVII
20-1670     12-2-2020   TSO Table XVII
20-1671     12-2-2020   TSO Table XVII
20-1674     12-16-2020  TSO Table XIII
20-1675     12-16-2020  157.100
20-1675     12-16-2020  157.103
20-1677     12-16-2020  TSO Table XII
21-1679     1-20-2021   TSO Table VII
21-1680     2-3-2021    TSO Table XIII
21-1686     2-3-2021    TSO Table I
21-1687     2-3-2021    TSO Table I
21-1681     2-17-2021   TSO Table I
21-1682     2-17-2021   TSO Table XI
21-1684     2-17-2021   TSO Table XIII
21-1685     2-17-2021   TSO Table XIII
21-1688     3-3-2021    TSO Table XIII
21-1689     3-3-2021    TSO Table XI
21-1690     3-3-2021    TSO Table XI
21-1691     3-17-2021   TSO Table XIII
21-1692     4-7-2021    112.055
21-1693     4-7-2021    93.01—
                        93.08
21-1694     4-7-2021    112.051
                        110.01—
21-1695     4-7-2021    110.15;
                        110.99
21-1696     4-7-2021    36.025—
                        36.034
21-1698     4-21-2021   35.004;
                        35.005
21-1697     5-5-2021    TSO Table XIII
21-1700     5-5-2021    112.055
21-1701     5-19-2021   TSO Table XIII
21-1702     5-19-2021   TSO Table XII
21-1704     5-19-2021   Ch. 41, App. A;
                        Ch. 41, App. B
21-1706     5-19-2021   36.045—
                        36.049
21-1707     5-19-2021   35.065;
                        35.066
21-1709     6-16-2021   43.02;
                        Ch. 43, App. A
21-1710     7-21-2021   112.055
21-1711     7-21-2021   112.053
21-1713     8-4-2021    TSO Table XIII
21-1719     8-4-2021    TSO Table I
21-1720     8-18-2021   TSO Table XIII
21-1721     9-1-2021    35.004
21-1725     9-15-2021   TSO Table XIII
21-1714     10-6-2021   TSO Table I
21-1715     10-6-2021   TSO Table XI
21-1716     10-6-2021   TSO Table XIII
21-1717     10-6-2021   137.20—
                        137.22
21-1726     10-6-2021   43.01;
                        112.054
21-1733     10-20-2021  112.055
21-1736     12-15-2021  TSO Table XVII
21-1737     12-15-2021  TSO Table XVII
21-1738     12-15-2021  TSO Table XVII
21-1739     12-15-2021  TSO Table XVII
21-1740     12-15-2021  TSO Table XVII
21-1741     12-15-2021  TSO Table XVII
21-1742     12-15-2021  TSO Table XVII
21-1743     12-15-2021  TSO Table XIII
21-1744     12-15-2021  TSO Table XI
21-1745     12-15-2021  TSO Table XIII
21-1746     12-15-2021  TSO Table XII
21-1747     12-15-2021  TSO Table XIII
21-1748     12-15-2021  TSO Table II
22-1751     1-5-2022    112.054
22-1752     1-5-2022    112.055
22-1753     1-5-2022    112.054
22-1754     1-19-2022   112.055
22-1750     2-2-2022    TSO Table II
22-1757     2-2-2022    TSO Table I
22-1758     2-2-2022    TSO Table VII
22-1755     3-2-2022    TSO Table XIII
22-1756     3-2-2022    TSO Table XII
22-1759     3-2-2022    TSO Table XIII
22-1760     3-2-2022    TSO Table XI
                        50.031;
                        50.034;
                        50.038—
                        50.041;
                        50.048;
22-1762     3-16-2022   50.052;
                        50.085;
                        50.087;
                        53.16;
                        53.21;
                        53.50;
                        150.02
22-1763     3-16-2022   43.03
22-1764     3-16-2022   30.01;
                        30.03
22-1765     3-16-2022   112.053
                        118.01—
22-1766     3-16-2022   118.09;
                        118.99
22-1767     3-16-2022   112.055
22-1772     4-6-2022    TSO Table I
22-1773     4-20-2022   TSO Table II
22-1774     4-20-2022   TSO Table XII
22-1775     4-20-2022   43.01;
                        43.02
22-1776     4-20-2022   112.055
22-1778     5-18-2022   TSO Table XIII
22-1779     5-18-2022   TSO Table XI
22-1780     5-18-2022   112.053
22-1768     6-1-2022    TSO Table I
22-1769     6-1-2022    TSO Table XI
22-1770     6-1-2022    TSO Table XIII
22-1781     6-1-2022    TSO Table XI
22-1782     6-1-2022    TSO Table XIII
22-1783     6-1-2022    TSO Table XIII
22-1784     6-15-2022   TSO Table XIII
22-1785     6-15-2022   TSO Table XIII
22-1787     8-17-2022   Ch. 79, Schd. I
22-1789     8-17-2022   112.053
22-1790     9-7-2022    TSO Table XIII
22-1791     9-7-2022    TSO Table XIII
22-1792     9-7-2022    TSO Table XIII
22-1793     9-7-2022    112.053
22-1795     9-7-2022    TSO Table II
22-1764     9-21-2022   Ch. 157, App. A;
                        Ch. 157, App. B
                        157.003;
                        157.022—
                        157.027;
22-1794     9-21-2022   157.097;
                        157.098;
                        157.155—
                        157.165
22-1796     9-21-2022   TSO Table XIII
22-1797     9-21-2022   37.142
22-1798     10-19-2022  TSO Table II
22-1799     11-15-2022  TSO Table XIII
22-1800     11-15-2022  TSO Table X
22-1801     11-15-2022  43.01;
                        112.054
22-1803     12-7-2022   TSO Table XVII
22-1804     12-7-2022   TSO Table XVII
22-1805     12-7-2022   TSO Table XVII
22-1806     12-7-2022   TSO Table XVII
22-1807     12-7-2022   TSO Table XVII
22-1808     12-7-2022   TSO Table XVII
22-1809     12-7-2022   TSO Table XVII
22-1810     12-7-2022   TSO Table XVII
                        91.00—
                        91.08;
                        91.15—
                        91.27;
                        91.30;
                        91.35;
                        91.36;
22-1811     12-7-2022   91.45—
                        91.62;
                        91.68;
                        91.69;
                        91.70—
                        91.75;
                        91.99;
                        Ch. 91, App. A
                        150.01—
                        150.14;
22-1812     12-7-2022   150.25—
                        150.34;
                        150.99
22-1814     12-7-2022   43.02;
                        43.03
22-1815     12-7-2022   43.01;
                        112.054
23-1817     2-1-2023    TSO Table XIII
23-1818     2-1-2023    TSO Table XIII
23-1819     2-1-2023    TSO Table XIII
23-1820     2-1-2023    TSO Table I
23-1821     2-1-2023    TSO Table II
23-1822     2-1-2023    TSO Table XII
23-1825     2-15-2023   112.050
23-1823     3-1-2023    TSO Table XIII
23-1824     3-1-2023    TSO Table XIII
23-1828     3-1-2023    TSO Table II
23-1829     3-1-2023    112.051
23-1832     3-1-2023    78.10
                        157.098;
23-1826     3-15-2023   157.100;
                        157.104
23-1827     3-15-2023   TSO Table XI
23-1833     3-15-2023   155.01—
                        155.04
23-1834     3-15-2023   43.03
23-1835     3-15-2023   TSO Table II
23-1836     3-15-2023   Ch. 41, App. A;
                        78.09
23-1838     3-15-2023   93.06
23-1839     3-15-2023   112.055
23-1840     3-15-2023   35.215—
                        35.218
23-1844     4-19-2023   TSO Table XIII
23-1845     4-19-2023   112.055
23-1847     4-19-2023   TSO Table I
23-1848     4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-1849     4-19-2023   TSO Table II
23-1851     5-3-2023    112.051
23-1852     5-3-2023    73.02;
                        Ch. 79, Schd. I
23-1841     6-7-2023    TSO Table I
23-1842     6-7-2023    TSO Table XI
23-1843     6-7-2023    TSO Table XIII
23-1854     6-21-2023   43.04
23-1855     6-21-2023   41.10;
                        41.11
23-1857     7-19-2023   TSO Table XIII
23-1858     7-19-2023   44.075—
                        44.079
23-1856     8-16-2023   TSO Table X
23-1859     8-16-2023   43.02;
                        50.052
23-1861     9-6-2023    71.113
23-1864     10-4-2023   Ch. 79, Schd. I
23-1867     10-18-2023  TSO Table XIII
23-1868     10-18-2023  TSO Table I
23-1866     11-1-2023   TSO Table XIII
23-1870     11-1-2023   TSO Table XIII
23-1872     12-6-2023   78.10
23-1874     12-6-2023   TSO Table XVII
23-1875     12-6-2023   TSO Table XVII
23-1876     12-6-2023   TSO Table XVII
23-1877     12-6-2023   TSO Table XVII
23-1878     12-6-2023   TSO Table XVII
23-1879     12-6-2023   TSO Table XVII
23-1880     12-6-2023   TSO Table XVII
23-1881     12-6-2023   TSO Table XVII
                        122.01—
23-1882     12-6-2023   122.10;
                        122.99
23-1884     12-6-2023   37.170
23-1885     12-6-2023   TSO Table II
23-1887     12-20-2023  TSO Table XIII
23-1888     12-20-2023  TSO Table XI
23-1889     12-20-2023  TSO Table XIII
23-1890     12-20-2023  73.14;
                        73.15
24-1891     1-17-2024   93.06
24-1892     1-17-2024   Ch. 41, App. A
                        73.16;
24-1893     1-17-2024   73.99;
                        78.38
24-1894     1-17-2024   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
24-1896     1-17-2024   44.106
24-1897     1-17-2024   112.053
24-1898     2-7-2024    TSO Table XI
24-1899     2-7-2024    TSO Table XIII
24-1895     2-21-2024   TSO Table XI
24-1900     2-21-2024   TSO Table XIII
24-1901     2-21-2024   36.054;
                        Ch. 36, App. A
24-1902     3-6-2024    43.01;
                        112.054
24-1903     3-6-2024    TSO Table VIII
24-1905     3-6-2024    112.053
24-1904     3-20-2024   TSO Table II
24-1906     3-20-2024   157.042
24-1907     3-20-2024   43.01;
                        112.053
24-1908     3-20-2024   TSO Table II
24-1909     3-20-2024   112.055
24-1912     5-1-2024    35.001;
                        35.003
                        Ch. 41, App. A;
24-1914     5-1-2024    Ch. 41, App. B;
                        151.05
24-1919     6-12-2024   30.03;
                        Ch. 30, App. B
24-1920     6-12-2024   43.01;
                        112.054
24-1922     6-26-2024   TSO Table I
24-1923     6-26-2024   112.054
24-1924     6-26-2024   TSO Table II
24-1925     7-17-2024   50.052
                        136.03;
24-1927     8-21-2024   136.09;
                        136.12;
                        136.13
24-1930     8-21-2024   Ch. 79, Schd. VI
24-1931     8-21-2024   37.142;
                        37.143
24-1915     9-4-2024    TSO Table I
24-1916     9-4-2024    TSO Table XI
24-1917     9-4-2024    TSO Table XIII
24-1932     9-18-2024   157.103
24-1933     9-18-2024   TSO Table XIII
24-1934     9-18-2024   TSO Table XIII
24-1935     9-18-2024   Ch. 79, Schd. I
24-1936     9-18-2024   112.055
24-1943     11-6-2024   151.03
24-1944     11-20-2024  112.053
24-1946     12-4-2024   TSO Table XVII
24-1947     12-4-2024   TSO Table XVII
24-1948     12-4-2024   TSO Table XVII
24-1949     12-4-2024   TSO Table XVII
24-1950     12-4-2024   TSO Table XVII
24-1951     12-4-2024   TSO Table XVII
24-1952     12-4-2024   TSO Table XVII
24-1953     12-4-2024   TSO Table XVII
24-1954     12-4-2024   112.054;
                        112.055
24-1955     12-18-2024  TSO Table II
24-1956     12-18-2024  TSO Table II
24-1957     12-18-2024  TSO Table I
24-1958     12-18-2024  112.054
24-1959     12-18-2024  112.055
25-1962     1-15-2025   112.054;
                        112.055
25-1963     1-15-2025   150.13
25-1961     2-5-2025    TSO Table XIII
25-1964     2-5-2025    75.16
25-1966     2-19-2025   TSO Table II
25-1967     2-19-2025   TSO Table II
25-1968     2-19-2025   112.055
25-1970     2-19-2025   TSO Table II
25-1965     3-19-2025   TSO Table XI
25-1975     4-2-2025    TSO Table II
25-1976     4-2-2025    TSO Table VII
25-1978     4-2-2025    112.055
25-1972     4-16-2025   112.054
25-1974     4-16-2025   TSO Table XIII
25-1979     4-16-2025   157.042
25-1980     4-16-2025   136.01—
                        136.13
25-1981     5-7-2025    Ch. 37, App. A
25-1984     5-21-2025   78.10
25-1985     6-4-2025    TSO Table VII
25-1986     7-9-2025    TSO Table XIII
25-1987     7-9-2025    11.01
25-1990     7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-1991     7-9-2025    TSO Table II
25-1992     7-9-2025    44.215—
                        44.218
25-1994     8-20-2025   TSO Table XIII
25-1995     8-20-2025   157.003;
                        157.097
25-1996     8-20-2025   TSO Table XII
25-1997     8-20-2025   112.054
25-1998     8-20-2025   156.49
25-2000     8-20-2025   112.053;
                        112.054
                        52.01;
                        52.02;
                        52.15—
                        52.21;
                        52.99;
                        54.001—
                        54.007;
                        54.020—
                        54.030;
                        54.045—
                        54.047;
                        54.060—
                        54.066;
                        54.080—
                        54.087;
25-2001     8-20-2025   54.100—
                        54.111;
                        54.125;
                        54.126;
                        54.140;
                        54.155;
                        54.170—
                        54.176;
                        54.190—
                        54.194;
                        54.205—
                        54.209;
                        54.220;
                        54.221;
                        54.235;
                        54.236;
                        Ch. 54, App. A
25-2004     9-3-2025    TSO Table I
25-2005     9-3-2025    112.055
25-2006     9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-2007     9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-2008     9-17-2025   TSO Table II
25-2009     9-17-2025   1125.053;
                        112.055
25-2010     10-1-2025   35.216
25-2011     10-15-2025  TSO Table XV
25-2012     10-15-2025  TSO Table XIII
25-2013     11-5-2025   71.089;
                        71.999
25-2014     11-5-2025   112.053;
                        112.054
25-2015     11-5-202    TSO Table VII
25-2018     12-3-2025   TSO Table XIII
25-2021     12-3-2025   TSO Table XVII
25-2022     12-3-2025   TSO Table XVII
25-2023     12-3-2025   TSO Table XVII
25-2024     12-3-2025   TSO Table XVII
25-2025     12-3-2025   TSO Table XVII
25-2027     12-3-2025   TSO Table I
25-2028     12-3-2025   TSO Table XIII
25-2029     12-17-2025  44.215—
                        44.218
                        153.01;
                        153.15—
25-2031     12-17-2025  153.19;
                        153.30;
                        153.32—
                        153.37
25-2032     12-17-202   154.03
                       
 
 
