KANARRAVILLE, UTAH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2026 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation through Ord. 3-11-26, passed 3-26-2026
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.001   Title of code
   
10.002   Interpretation
   
10.003   Application to future ordinances
   
10.004   Construction of code
   
10.005   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.006   Severability
   
10.007   Reference to other sections
   
10.008   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.009   Errors and omissions
   
10.010   Reasonable time
   
10.011   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.012   Limitation periods
   
10.013   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.014   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.015   Captions
   
10.016   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.017   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.018   Numbering ordinances
   
10.019   Statutes or codes included and excluded
   
10.020   Purposes and principles of construction
Offenses and General Penalty
   
10.035   Crimes abolished
   
10.036   Strict construction rule not applicable
   
10.037   Procedure; governed by state and constitutional provisions liability
for civil damages not affected
   
10.038   Jurisdiction and venue
   
10.039   Limitation of actions
   
10.040   Multiple prosecution and double jeopardy; criminal joinder
   
10.041   Classification of offenses; sentencing in accordance with chapter
   
10.042   Designation of offenses
   
10.043   Misdemeanors classified
   
10.044   Infractions
   
10.045   Continuing violation
   
10.046   Sentences or combination of sentences allowed; civil penalties
   
10.047   Misdemeanor conviction; term of imprisonment
   
10.048   Infraction conviction; fine, forfeiture and disqualification
   
10.049   Fines of persons
   
10.050   Fines of corporations, associations, partnerships or governmental
instrumentalities
   
10.051   Hearings request
   
10.052   Form of hearings request
   
10.053   Hearings procedure
   
10.054   Not additional remedy
   
10.055   No liability on municipality
 
   
10.999   General penalty
Statutory reference:
 1    Burden of proof, see UCA §§ 76-1-501 through 76-1-504
   Criminal responsibility for conduct of another, see UCA §§ 76-2-201 through
76-2-205  2
   Culpability generally, see UCA §§ 76-2-101 through 76-2-105  3
   Defenses to criminal responsibility, see UCA §§ 76-2-301 through 76-2-308  4
   Definitions, see UCA § 76-1-601  5
   Justification excluding criminal responsibility, see UCA §§ 76-2-401 through
76-2-406  6
   Limitations and special provisions on sentences, see UCA §§ 76-3-401 through
76-3-405  7
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
3 Cite
4 Cite
5 Cite
6 Cite
7 Cite
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.001 TITLE OF CODE.
   The ordinances contained in this code and all ordinances of a general nature
hereafter adopted and inserted herein and all amendments, additions and changes
thereto shall be part of this code and shall be known and cited as the “Revised
Ordinances of Kanarraville Town”.
§ 10.002 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.003 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Application to future ordinances. All provisions of Title I compatible
with future legislation shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or
supplementing this code unless otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   Offenses defined in this code.
      (1)   Application of code. The provision of this code shall govern the
construction of, the punishment for and the defense against any offense defined
in this code or, except where otherwise specifically provided or the context
otherwise requires, any offense defined outside this code, if the offense was
committed after the effective date of this code.
      (2)   Offenses prior to effective date. Any offense committed prior to
the effective date of this code shall be governed by the ordinances of this
municipality existing at the time of commission thereof, except that a defense
or limitation on punishment available under this code shall be available to any
defendant tried or retried after the effective date. An offense under this code
shall be deemed to have been committed prior to the effective date of this code
if any of the elements of the offense occurred prior to the effective date.
§ 10.004 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.005 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   In the construction of the ordinances of this municipality, the following
rules and definitions shall be observed and applied unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of these ordinances.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and
understood according to the common use and understanding of the language; the
technical words and phrases and such other words and phrases as may have
acquired a particular meaning in law shall be construed and understood
according to such particular meaning.
      (2)   Gender - singular and plural. Unless otherwise indicated from the
context of the ordinance, all words used in the singular shall include the
plural and all words used in the masculine gender shall extend to and apply to
the feminine gender.
      (3)   Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the
future and past tense when applicable.
      (4)   Joint authority. Words imputing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons,
unless otherwise declared in the section giving the authority.
      (5)   Acts. Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an
agent or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of
the act by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license is required by any ordinance of this
municipality.
      CLERK. The individual appointed to act as the Clerk of the Town of
Kanarraville.
      COUNTY. Iron County, Utah.
      HIGHWAY or ROAD. Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the
words “county way”, “county road”, “common road” and “state road”.
      LICENSE. Includes any certificate or license issued by this municipality.
      LOCATION. Whenever any act, conduct, or offense is prohibited or required
and no reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of this municipality.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OFFENSE. Any act, action or conduct prohibited by this code or the
failure to perform any acts required in this code.
      OFFICER or OFFICIALS. As used in this code, means any elected or
appointed person employed by the municipality unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of a whole or part of such
building or land.
      PERSON. Includes all individuals, both male and female; any governmental
agency; corporation; partnership; association; company; and every other form of
organization whether formed voluntarily or involuntarily.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
      STATE. The State of Utah.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall apply to any
person who occupies all or any part of such building or land either alone or
with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Kanarraville.
      TOWN COUNCIL. As used throughout this code, means the legislative body of
the Town of Kanarraville.
      TOWN MARSHAL or MARSHAL. As used in this code, all have the same meaning
and may be used interchangeably.
      WEEK. Any seven-day period.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.006 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional or without effect by any final
judgement or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgement or
decree shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs and sections of this code.
§ 10.007 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.008 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Town
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.009 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.010 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   Reasonable time. In all cases where any ordinance required that an act
be done in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such
reasonable time for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be
necessary for the expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such
notice.
   (B)   Time; how computed. The time within which an act is to be done as
provided in any ordinance or any resolution or order of this municipality, when
expressed in days, shall be determined by excluding the first day and including
the last day, except if the last day is a Sunday or a holiday, then the last
day shall be the day next following such Sunday or holiday which is not a
Sunday or holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all holidays
shall be excluded.
§ 10.011 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   Repeal of existing ordinances.
      (1)   So far as the provisions of this code are the same as those of
previously existing ordinances, they shall be construed as continuations
thereof. All ordinances and resolutions of this municipality heretofore in
force, except such as are of a private, local or temporary nature, including
franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues, elections and special levies for
local assessments, hereby are repealed except as otherwise provided in division
(A)(2) below.
      (2)   Those ordinances of this municipality which are of a general nature
which are not repealed and which the Town Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to insert in the appropriate place in this code and which shall be
deemed part of this code are: none.
      (3)   The fees or charges established by the ordinances repealed by this
code of revised ordinances shall remain in effect until subsequently changed by
ordinance or resolution; except that. the fees and charges established by this
code shall prevail in the event of a conflict.
   (B)   Effect of repealing ordinances. The repeal of the ordinances, as
provided in division (A) above, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded.
§ 10.012 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.013 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.014 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.015 CAPTIONS.
   The captions in this code immediately preceding each section are intended as
mere captions to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be part of the sections.
§ 10.016 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         (UCA §             )
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see UCA §             
§ 10.017 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
   (B)   Whenever this code or any ordinance of this town requires that an act
be done or prohibits an action by any officer, employee or agent of this town,
the failure to perform the act or the performance of act prohibited shall not
create any liability on the town or the officer.
§ 10.018 NUMBERING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall, in so far as possible, assign all ordinances of
a general nature adopted after these revised ordinances a number which shall
conform to the numbering system used in this code and shall indicate upon the
face of the ordinance the date adopted.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Clerk shall keep all ordinances of a local, private or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues and
tax levies, in a separate book of “special ordinances” properly indexed and
organized according to date adopted.
      (2)   The first number of such an ordinance shall be the last two digits
of the year the ordinance is adopted, followed by a dash which is followed by a
number which shall be sequential, ascending number indicating the order in
which such special ordinance was adopted during the year.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this section shall not affect or render invalid
any ordinance of this municipality.
§ 10.019 STATUTES OR CODES INCLUDED AND EXCLUDED.
   Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or
construed to include, incorporate or make the citation or statute part of this
code unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate or
make the citation or statute part of this code by reference or incorporation,
and any such reference or citation not specifically included or incorporated
may be changed, amended or deleted without publication on an order of the
governing body.
§ 10.020 PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of this code shall be construed in accordance with these
general purposes to:
   (A)   Forbid and prevent the commission of offenses;
   (B)   Define adequately the conduct and mental state which constitute each
offense and safeguard conduct that which without fault from condemnation as
criminal;
   (C)   Prescribe penalties which are proportionate to the seriousness of
offenses and which permit recognition of differences in rehabilitation
possibilities among individual offenders; and
   (D)   Prevent arbitrary or oppressive treatment of persons accused or
convicted of offenses.
OFFENSES AND GENERAL PENALTY
§ 10.035 CRIMES ABOLISHED.
   No conduct is a crime or an offense unless made so by this code or other
ordinances or other applicable statute.
§ 10.036 STRICT CONSTRUCTION RULE NOT APPLICABLE.
   The rule that a penal ordinance is to be strictly construed shall not apply
to this code, or any of its provisions, or other ordinances of this
municipality. All provisions of this code and offenses defined by it shall be
construed according to the fair import of their terms to promote justice and to
affect the objects of the law and general purposes of §
10.020.
§ 10.037 PROCEDURE; GOVERNED BY STATE AND CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS LIABILITY
FOR CIVIL DAMAGES NOT AFFECTED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, the procedure governing the accusation,
prosecution, conviction and punishment of offenders and offenses is not
regulated by this code, but shall be in conformity with the laws of the state
and the Constitution of the United States.
   (B)   This code does not bar, suspend or otherwise affect any rights to or
liability for damages, penalty, forfeiture, impeachment or other remedy
authorized by law to be covered or enforced in a civil action, administrative
proceeding or otherwise, regardless of whether the conduct involved in the
proceeding constitutes an offense defined in this code.
§ 10.038 JURISDICTION AND VENUE.
   (A)   A person is subject to prosecution in this municipality for an offense
which he or she commits, while either within or outside the municipality, by
his or her own conduct or that of another for which he or she is legally
accountable, if:
      (1)   The offense is committed either wholly or partly within the
municipality;
      (2)   The conduct outside this municipality constitutes an attempt within
this municipality;
      (3)   The conduct outside this municipality constitutes a conspiracy to
commit an offense within this municipality and an act in furtherance of the
conspiracy occurs in this municipality; or
      (4)   The conduct within the municipality constitutes an attempt,
solicitation, or conspiracy to commit in another jurisdiction an offense under
this code and such other jurisdiction.
   (B)   An offense is committed partly within this municipality if either the
conduct which is an element of the offense, or the result which is such an
element, occurs within this municipality.
   (C)   An offense which is based on an omission to perform a duty imposed by
this code is committed within this municipality regardless of the location of
the offender at the time of the omission.
§ 10.039 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   (A)   Embezzlement of public moneys; falsification of public records. A
prosecution for embezzlement of public moneys or the falsification of public
records may be commenced at any time.
   (B)   Misdemeanor; any infraction; commencement of prosecution.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, prosecutions for
other offenses are subject to the following periods of limitation:
         (a)   A prosecution for a misdemeanor must be commenced within two
years after it is committed; and
         (b)   A prosecution for any infraction must be commenced within one
year after it is committed.
      (2)   The prosecution is commenced on the filing of a complaint or
information.
   (C)   Fraud or breach of fiduciary obligation; misconduct by public officer
or employee. If the period prescribed in division (B)(1) above has expired, a
prosecution may nevertheless be commenced for:
      (1)   Any offense, a material element of which is either fraud or a
breach of fiduciary obligation, within one year after discovery of the offense
by an aggrieved party or by a person who has a legal duty to represent an
aggrieved party and who is himself or herself not a party to the offense, but
in no case shall this provision extend beyond the period of limitation
otherwise applicable by more than three years; and
      (2)   Any offense based on misconduct in office by a public officer or
employee at any time during the term of the defendant’s public office or the
period of his or her public employment or within two years thereafter, but in
no case shall this provision extend beyond the period of limitation otherwise
applicable by more than three years.
   (D)   Defendant out of state. The period of limitation does not run against
any defendant during any period of time he or she is out of the state following
the commission of an offense.
   (E)   Lesser included offense for which period of limitations has run.
Whenever a defendant is charged with an offense for which the period of
limitations has not run and the defendant should be found guilty of a lesser
offense for which the period of limitations has run, the finding of the lesser
and included offense against which the statute of limitations has run shall not
be a bar to punishment for the lesser offense.
§ 10.040 MULTIPLE PROSECUTION AND DOUBLE JEOPARDY; CRIMINAL JOINDER.
   (A)   “Single criminal episode” defined. In this code, unless the context
requires a different definition, SINGLE CRIMINAL EPISODE means all conduct
which is closely related in time and is incident to an attempt or an
accomplishment of a single criminal objective. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit or modify the joinder of offenses and defendants in criminal
proceedings.
   (B)   Incorporation by reference of provisions of state criminal code. The
provisions of UCA §§ 76-1-402 through 76-1-405  1 are hereby adopted as part of
this code and incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Joinder of offenses and defendants.
      (1)   Two or more offenses under this code or the ordinances of this
municipality may be charged in the same citation or complaint in a separate
count for each offense if the offenses charged are of the same or similar
character or are based on the same act or transgression or on two more acts or
transactions connected together or constituting parts of a common scheme or
plan.
      (2)   Two or more defendants may be charged in the same citation or
complaint if they are alleged to have participated in the same act or
transaction or in the same series of acts or transactions. Such defendants may
be charged in one or more counts together or separately and all of the
defendants need not be charged in each count.
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 10.041 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES; SENTENCING IN ACCORDANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   (A)   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this municipality shall be sentenced in accordance with
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which involve
an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance with this
chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.042 DESIGNATION OF OFFENSES.
   Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or infractions.
§ 10.043 MISDEMEANORS CLASSIFIED.
   (A)   Misdemeanors are classified into two categories:
      (1)   Class B misdemeanors; and
      (2)   Class C misdemeanors.
   (B)   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or in an ordinance of this municipality
when no other specifications as to punishment or category is made is a class B
misdemeanor.
§ 10.044 INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Infractions are not classified.
   (B)   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this municipality or which is expressly designated an infraction
and any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this
municipality which is not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty
is specified is an infraction.
§ 10.045 CONTINUING VIOLATION.
   In all instances where the violation of these ordinances or any ordinance
hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or
continues to occur.
§ 10.046 SENTENCES OR COMBINATION OF SENTENCES ALLOWED; CIVIL PENALTIES.
   Within the limits prescribed by this code, a court may sentence a person
adjudged guilty of an offense to any one of the following sentences or a
combination of such sentences:
   (A)   To pay a fine;
   (B)   To probation; or
   (C)   To imprisonment.
§ 10.047 MISDEMEANOR CONVICTION; TERM OF IMPRISONMENT.
   The terms of imprisonment are as follows:
   (A)   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
months; and
   (B)   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding 90
days.
§ 10.048 INFRACTION CONVICTION; FINE, FORFEITURE, AND DISQUALIFICATION.
   (A)   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture, or both.
   (B)   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
§ 10.049 FINES OF PERSONS.
   A person who has been convicted of an offense may, in addition to any term
of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $299 when the
conviction is of a class B or C misdemeanor or infraction.
§ 10.050 FINES OF CORPORATIONS, ASSOCIATIONS, PARTNERSHIPS OR GOVERNMENTAL
INSTRUMENTALITIES.
   The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon a corporation, association,
partnership, or governmental instrumentality for an offense defined in this
code or the ordinances of the municipality or for any offense defined outside
of this code over which this municipality has jurisdiction, for which no
special corporate fine is specified, shall be sentenced to pay an amount, fixed
by the court, not exceeding $299 when the conviction is for a class B or C
misdemeanor or infraction.
§ 10.051 HEARINGS REQUEST.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided in any ordinance of the municipality
or any code adopted by reference, a hearing before the governing body may be
requested by any person:
   (A)   Who is denied or refused a permit or license by any officer, agent or
employee of this municipality; or
   (B)   Whose permit or license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited
from that for which it was first issued.
§ 10.052 FORM OF HEARINGS REQUEST.
   The request for hearing must be made in writing to the Mayor or Recorder and
made within 30 days following the date notice denying, refusing, revoking,
qualifying, restricting or revoking the license or permit is mailed by the
municipality to the applicant or license holder at his or her address as it
appears on the application or license.
§ 10.053 HEARINGS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Following receipt of a request for hearing, the governing body shall
inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and place the hearing is to
be held.
   (B)   At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have the right to hear and
examine any witnesses the municipality may produce to support its decision and
to present his or her own evidence in support of his or her contention.
   (C)   The governing body shall, within ten days following the conclusion of
the hearing, in writing, inform the person who requested the hearing of the
decision of the governing body.
§ 10.054 NOT ADDITIONAL REMEDY.
   This subchapter shall not be constructed so as to afford any aggrieved party
more than one hearing before the governing body nor shall the hearing provided
in this subchapter apply to any criminal complaint or proceeding.
§ 10.055 NO LIABILITY ON MUNICIPALITY.
   None of the provisions of this code shall create any civil liability on the
municipality, its officers or employees whether or not the code imposes
mandatory or directional duties and whether or not the municipality, its
officers or employees perform or do not perform such duties.
§ 10.999 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this code for which
another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be subject
to the fines, imprisonment, or other penalties that apply to a conviction of a
class B misdemeanor pursuant to UCA § 76-3-301(1)(d)  1 or, if the violation
would constitute a class C misdemeanor, then the lesser class C fines pursuant
to UCA § 76-3-301(1)(e)Cite, imprisonment, or other penalties. If the violation
would constitute an infraction, then the person shall be subject to the lesser
fines or other penalties for such an infraction pursuant to UCA § 76-3-205Cite.
      (2)   Any firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to the fines, imprisonment, or other penalties which apply to a
conviction of a class B misdemeanor pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(3)  2 or, if the
violation would constitute a class C misdemeanor, then the lesser class C fines
pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(4)Cite or other penalties. If the violation would
constitute an infraction, then the firm or corporation shall be subject to the
fines or other penalties for such an infraction pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302
(4)Cite.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   If a penalty for a violation of an ordinance includes any possibility
of imprisonment, the county shall, under UCA § 78B-22-301  3 , provide for
indigent defense services, as that term is defined in UCA § 78B-22-102Cite.
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
3 Cite
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN MEETING PROCEDURES
      
32.   APPROVAL OF WRITTEN MINUTES
      
33.   ANNEXATION POLICY
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.001   Changing the form of election to a by-mail precinct
   
30.002   Eligibility and residency requirements
   
30.003   Cobble Crest and Town Hall rental fees
   
30.004   Service fee for returned checks
   
30.005   Purchasing policies and procedures
   
30.006   Code enforcement compliance plan
§ 30.001 CHANGING THE FORM OF ELECTION TO A BY-MAIL PRECINCT.
   The town hereby identifies a by-mail (absentee ballot) precinct, as per UCA
§ 20A-3a-201, in which its population is less than 500 residents and would
eliminate the requirement for poll workers and election judges during the early
voting period and on all election days, including primary, special, and
general. An absentee ballot will be mailed to each valid registered voter
pursuant to UCA § 20A-3a-202Cite.
(Ord. 05-12-2011, passed 5-12-2011)
§ 30.002 ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Declaration of candidacy. A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a town office shall meet the requirements of UCA § 20A-9-203.
   (B)   Registered voter. Any person elected to a municipal office shall be a
registered voter in the town.
   (C)   Residency.
      (1)   Each elected officer of the town shall maintain residency within
the boundaries of the town during the officer’s term of office.
      (2)   If an elected officer of the town establishes a principal place of
residence, as provided in UCA § 20A-2-105, outside the town during the
officer’s term of office, the office is automatically vacant.
      (3)   If an elected town officer is absent from the town any time during
the officer’s term of office for a continuous period of more than 60 days
without the consent of the Town Council, the town office is automatically
vacant.
      (4)   For the purposes of renting the Town Hall or Cobble Crest or
purchasing grave sites at the resident rate, the following requirements shall
apply:
         (a)   One year of continuous residency;
         (b)   A valid Utah driver’s license showing a current Kanarraville
address; and
         (c)   Resident receives and pays a current Kanarraville town water
bill.
§ 30.003 COBBLE CREST AND TOWN HALL RENTALS FEES.
   (A)   Cobble Crest. Rent for Cobble Crest for residents will be $150 a day.
The non-resident fee will be $250 a day.
   (B)   Town Hall. Town Hall rental hours will be Monday through Friday from
1:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., and Saturday through Sunday 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
Rental prices will be $50 for residents and $250 for non-residents.
(Ord. 06-13-24, passed 6-13-2024)
§ 30.004 SERVICE FEE FOR RETURNED CHECKS.
   (A)   Fee established. Any check or electronic payment made to the town that
is returned by a financial institution due to insufficient funds, account
closure, or any other reason shall be subject to a returned check fee of $25.
   (B)   Notice of fee.
      (1)   The person or entity that issued the returned check shall be
notified by the Town Clerk or Treasurer and shall be required to pay:
         (a)   The original amount due; plus
         (b)   The $25 returned check fee.
      (2)   No further services or transactions will be processed for the
issuer until all fees are paid in full.
   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      RESIDENT. Defined as:
         (a)   Have a town address on driver’s license or Utah ID;
         (b)   Be a registered voter in the town - Zone 1;
         (c)   Owns residential property in town limits, or lives in rental for
at least one year; or
         (d)   Water meter connected to domicile.
(Ord. 06-08-23, passed 6-8-2023; Ord. 11-13-25A, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 30.005 PURCHASING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The document title “Purchasing Policy and Procedures”, attached to Ord. 02-
13-25B as Exhibit A, is hereby adopted as a replacement for the currently
existing ordinance (governing the town’s purchasing and procurement
procedures), subject to any immaterial changes that may occur post-adoption
during the codification process.
(Ord. 02-13-25B, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 30.006 CODE ENFORCEMENT COMPLIANCE PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to adopt a formal
code enforcement compliance plan that:
      (1)   Establishes a standardized complaint and enforcement process;
      (2)   Encourages resolution of violations without unnecessary penalties;
      (3)   Provides notice and opportunity to be heard; and
      (4)   Ensures enforcement actions are fair, consistent, and legally
sound.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section:
      CODE ENFORCEMENT COMPLAINT FORM. The official form required to initiate
enforcement action.
      NOTICE OF COMPLAINT. Written notice informing a property owner of an
alleged violation.
      NOTICE OF VIOLATION. Written notice issued after review and determination
of non- compliance.
      PROPERTY OWNER. Includes the owner of record or any person legally
responsible for the property.
   (C)   Adoption of code enforcement compliance plan. The town hereby adopts
the code enforcement compliance plan attached to Ord. 01-08-26, which shall
govern zoning, nuisance, and other municipal code enforcement actions.
(Ord. 01-08-26, passed 1-8-2026)
Cross Reference:
   Zoning code, see
Chapter 152
CHAPTER 31: TOWN MEETING PROCEDURES
Section
   31.001   Purpose
   31.002   The agenda
   31.003   Town Council and Planning Commission packets
   31.004   Open and closed meetings
   31.005   Minutes of Town Council, Planning Commission and other public
meetings
   31.006   Meeting procedure and decorum; general rules
   31.007   Mayor or Chairperson responsibilities
   31.008   Mayor or Chair Pro-tem responsibilities
   31.009   Council, member responsibilities
   31.010   Quorum
   31.011   Recorded vote
   31.012   Abstention from voting
   31.013   Recusing
   31.014   Conflicts of interest/disclosure statements
   31.015   Motions
   31.016   Adherence to Americans with Disabilities Act
   31.017   Town Council meetings time and place
   31.018   Allowing an extra town work meeting per month
§ 31.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In the state, a law called the Open and Public Meetings Act (OPMA)
ensures that public officials make all their decisions under the public eye.
OPMA specifies that every meeting of a quorum of a public body must be a public
meeting with very few exceptions.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes rules of order and procedure for
public meetings of the town, including, but not limited to, the Planning
Commission and Town Council.
   (C)   These procedures and policies are to ensure a parliamentary order and
procedure as well as ethical behavior and civil discourse.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.002 THE AGENDA.
   (A)   Persons wanting to be placed on the agenda must contact the Town Clerk
to request a place on the agenda at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. A
brief description of the agenda topic must be given to the Town Clerk at this
time for inclusion on the agenda.
   (B)   Twenty-four hours prior to the meeting date, the Town Clerk will
prepare the agenda and post it in three different places around town (Town
Hall, the fire station and the power pole at 200 North and Main). In addition,
the Town Clerk must post the meeting agenda on the Utah Public Notice and town
websites.
   (C)   The state law for open and public meetings will be adhered to. All
agendas will comply with the state’s Open Meeting Act for posting requirements.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.003 TOWN COUNCIL AND PLANNING COMMISSION PACKETS.
   The Town Clerk will prepare supporting documentation for each Town Councilor
or Planning Commissioner and deliver it to the Council or Commission member 48
hours prior to the meeting. The packet will contain the minutes from any
meeting prior to this meeting, and any documents necessary for Council or
Planning Commission to help them make a decision on the agenda item.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.004 OPEN AND CLOSED MEETINGS.
   (A)   Town Council meetings will be held the second Thursday of each month
at 6:30 p.m., Planning Commission meetings will be held the first Thursday of
each month, at 7:00 p.m. All other public bodies will hold meetings as needed,
and according to the rules of the Open and Public Meetings Act. All meetings
will be recorded.
   (B)   No closed meeting is allowed, except those pertaining to matters
exempted by state law from open meeting requirements.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.005 MINUTES OF TOWN COUNCIL, PLANNING COMMISSION AND OTHER PUBLIC
MEETINGS.
   (A)   All public bodies of the town shall keep minutes of their proceedings.
All meetings will be recorded. These records will be kept at the office of the
Town Clerk and draft and approved copies shall be available to the public
during regular business hours for examination and copying.
   (B)   Minutes should be circulated to the members of the public body and
made available within a reasonable time after the meeting and are marked as
draft until approved. The minutes of the previous meeting will be approved the
following month at the next meeting of the public body. Grammatical or spelling
errors which do not change the substance of the text are not identified as
corrected minutes and the Town Clerk will make such corrections to the minutes
where needed.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.006 MEETING PROCEDURE AND DECORUM; GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   The purpose of these rules is to ensure fairness and common courtesy
to all members of the Council and public attending the meeting. These
procedures and policies are to ensure parliamentary order, ethical behavior and
civil discourse. The proceeds of the meeting will follow a simplified form of
Robert’s Rules of Parliamentary Procedure with the Mayor or Chairperson asking
for motions, the motion and a second followed by an all-in favor statement.
   (B)   Cell phones will be turned off or put on vibrate for the duration of
the meeting. The exception to this will be public safety officers present at
the meeting.
   (C)   The town public bodies will start the meeting as close to the
scheduled time as possible. If a quorum is present at the scheduled time, the
meeting will start. If an agenda participant is not present at the time his or
her agenda item comes up, it will be pushed back in the agenda until the
participant arrives. If the agenda participant fails to appear, he or she must
contact the Town Clerk to be put on next month’s agenda.
   (D)   The town encourages citizen input during public meetings. The Mayor or
Chairperson of the public body will invite the public to share their comments
at the appropriate time during the meeting or public hearing. A raised hand
will indicate a person with a comment. The Mayor or Chairperson of the public
body may also permit citizens to speak during individual agenda items, at his
or her discretion, when they feel that the comments will be pertinent to the
topic. Discourse is to be conducted in an orderly manner. The public will take
turns speaking, not interrupt the speaker and refrain from rude or disorderly
conduct.
   (E)   Members of all public bodies of the town shall not talk over one
another, interrupt or speak in a condescending manner to one another. Taking
turns speaking, deferring to someone who intends to speak and, in general,
maintaining civil rules of conduct toward one another, the staff and public is
expected.
   (F)   A person who is addressing the public body, after stating his, her or
their name, should only speak on the topic under discussion.
   (G)   Printed materials may be distributed to the public body during a
meeting, but must also include the Town Clerk for public record.
   (H)   No public body of the town will tolerate disorderly conduct which
includes insulting language or behavior by any person, including members of the
audience, the public body itself, or administration. No name calling, shouting
or booing is allowed during a meeting. The Mayor or Chairperson of the public
meeting may call the person to order or excuse them from the meeting.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.007 MAYOR OR CHAIRPERSON RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Mayor is the Chair of the Town Council meetings. A Chair shall be
designated for all other public bodies. The Mayor, or Chairperson as
applicable, will lead the meeting. The Mayor will open and facilitate
discussion on each agenda topic and summarization of main discussion points and
request motion.
   (B)   The Mayor, or Chairperson as applicable, at his or her discretion,
will recognize persons wishing to make comments or address the public body and
request them to address the public body at the podium, stating his or her name
and address for the official record. All comments should be directed to the
public body and not to others in attendance. Persons wishing to speak should
not interrupt while someone else is speaking or try to request recognition
until the speaker has finished.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.008 MAYOR OR CHAIR PRO-TEM RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Mayor or Chair Pro-tem will be established by a majority vote of
the Town Council or public body present.
   (B)   The Mayor or Chair Pro-tem will chair the meetings in the absence of
the Mayor or Chair and will conduct meetings in accordance with meeting
procedures earlier described.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.009 COUNCIL, MEMBER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It is the duty of the voting members of a public body:
   (A)   To consider interests of the municipality in its entirety;
   (B)   To prepare for the meetings by reviewing the agenda and supporting
materials;
   (C)   Respect the public process and decisions; and
   (D)   Maintain confidential information and discussion that is shared in
closed sessions per the Open Public Meeting laws.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.010 QUORUM.
   A quorum is any three members of Town Council or other public body,
including the Mayor and two Councilors, and may act and vote on all motions of
a public body.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.011 RECORDED VOTE.
   (A)   Each member of the public body has one vote each time a vote is held.
   (B)   The requirement for a recorded vote must include the vote of each
member and reason for abstention.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.012 ABSTENTION FROM VOTING.
   (A)   A member may decide not to vote either in favor or against a motion.
   (B)   Abstention may occur if a member has been absent and/or feels
insufficient information has been received on an issue.
   (C)   Abstention is not to be confused with voting against a matter.
   (D)   Members not abstaining carry the vote, as long as the motion receives
the minimum required affirmative votes.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.013 RECUSING.
   If a public body member should choose to recuse himself, herself or themself
from an agenda item, he or she will need to remove himself or herself from his
or her seat.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.014 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST/DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All public body members will complete a written disclosure
statement annually or when there is a change to the nature of the conflict and
file it with the Town Clerk.
      (2)   All disclosure statements will adhere to the state’s Municipal
Officers and Employees Ethics Act.
   (B)   All disclosure statements are public information and may be inspected
by the public during normal business hours at the office of the Town Clerk.
   (C)   A conflict of interest must be made orally in an open meeting to the
members of the body of which they are a member immediately before the
discussion about the topic involved in the conflict of interest as per the
Municipal Officers and Employees Ethic Act.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.015 MOTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor or Chairperson of each public body requests, entertains or
asks for motions and may recommend language to the Town Council or other public
body for the motion.
   (B)   Motions should begin with “I move to...”.
   (C)   Amending a motion requires recognition by the Mayor or Chairperson.
The member must state the change clearly and specifically, and requires a
second.
   (D)   (1)   Agenda items needing more attention/investigation and/or
discussion may be referred to a committee or staff for further review.
      (2)   A motion should be made which identifies specifics of the committee
or staff on when and how they are to report on the matter.
      (3)   A motion to table the agenda item will follow.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.016 ADHERENCE TO AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   All meetings will adhere to the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and,
when notified in time, the Town Clerk will prepare for special assistance for
persons with disabilities to participate in public meetings.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.017 TOWN COUNCIL MEETINGS TIME AND PLACE.
   The governing body shall hold one regular meeting, which shall be held on
the second Thursday of each month at 6:30 p.m., Mountain Standard Time, and 6:
30 p.m. during Daylight Saving Time.
(Ord. 08-15-12, passed 8-15-2012)
§ 31.018 ALLOWING AN EXTRA TOWN WORK MEETING PER MONTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall hold one regularly scheduled Town Council
meeting per month as follows: on the second Thursday of every month.
   (B)   The governing body will hold a second meeting throughout the month, as
needed, and convenient as amended in §§
31.001 to
31.016 or the Town Public Body Meeting Policy.
(Ord. 05-14-20, passed 5-14-2020)
CHAPTER 32: APPROVAL OF WRITTEN MINUTES
Section
   
32.001   Definitions
   
32.002   Policy for approval of minutes
§ 32.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply so long
as they are consistent with the definitions of the same terms found in the
state’s Open and Public Meetings Act. If a term is defined differently in the
state’s Open and Public Meetings Act, the definition found in that Act shall
apply.
§ 32.002 POLICY FOR APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
   The following shall be the policy and procedure for the approval of minutes
for this municipality.
   (A)   Written minutes shall be taken for all public meetings of any public
body of this municipality. The minutes of all public meetings of any public
body of this municipality shall be recorded and taken down by the Town Clerk
during the course of any public meeting of any public body.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall prepare and keep written minutes and recordings
of public meetings in accordance with the state’s Open and Public Meetings Act.
Minutes and recordings are to be made available to the public as required by
the Act.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall transcribe the minutes into a public document,
which will be as soon as possible after the meeting and definitely before the
next meeting of the public body, which document will be available to the public
and shall be clearly identified as awaiting formal approval, draft or
unapproved or with some other appropriate notice that the proposed minutes are
subject to change until formally approved.
   (D)   The public body shall consider the unapproved minutes at the next
meeting of the public body and they shall be approved by motion of the public
body, or vote to correct or amend the minutes, and vote to approve the amended
minutes after which the minutes become a public document available to any
member of the public who requests to read or copy the approved minutes.
   (E)   If the public body fails to consider the proposed minutes, or does not
take any action to approve the proposed minutes at the first public meeting
held by the public body immediately following the public body’s receipt of the
proposed minutes from the Clerk, the proposed minutes shall be deemed to have
been approved by the public body and will stand approved.
   (F)   Once the minutes have either been approved by the public body or have
been deemed to have been approved by the inaction of the public body, they
shall become the official record of the proceedings of the public body and
shall be signed by the Town Clerk of the meeting and shall be retained in the
official records of this municipality and shall be a public document available
for the inspection and copying by the public as appropriate under state law.
(Ord. 09-13-2012, passed 9-13-2012)
CHAPTER 33: ANNEXATION POLICY
Section
   
33.001   Introduction
   
33.002   Character of the community
   
33.003   Annexation/zoning
   
33.004   Expansion area map
   
33.005   Population
   
33.006   Procedural policy/criteria
   
33.007   Development of services
   
33.008   The interest of all affected entities
   
33.009   Environmental and land use issues
   
33.010   Public comments
   
33.011   Procedures for submission of an annexation request
   
Exhibit A:   Annexation map
§ 33.001 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of UCA § 10-2-401.5, all
municipalities within the state, except in Salt Lake County, prior to annexing
property, are required to adopt an annexation policy plan. In this annexation
policy plan, the cities and towns are required to develop an "expansion area"
map or plan growth of the community. The annexation area plan shall incorporate
the long-range planning objectives contained in the land use plan of the
community and shall represent a graphic illustration/representation of the
areas that the town intends to provide services to.
   (B)   The annexation policy plan is created by the town to guide decision
making regarding future annexations on a case-by-case basis. It also helps the
town plan for future expansion in conjunction with neighboring political
entities, particularly the county, and is a priority in the process of
developing the annexation policy plan.
   (C)   The Town Planning Commission and Town Board will consider annexation
based on the following criteria:
      (1)   If the area considered for annexation is in the town's current
annexation map (see
Exhibit A).
      (2)   If the property has a town water connection, and the property is
currently located partially in the town boundary and partially in the
unincorporated portion of Iron County.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 33.002 CHARACTER OF THE COMMUNITY.
   The town provides an excellent location for individuals and families
interested in living in a rural scenic environment relatively close to
surrounding urban areas. The town’s overall objective is to preserve small-town
values and sense of community while providing a high quality of life for the
residents; shape growth through responsible land use planning, budgeting, water
management and conservation; and to maintain a high quality of public
facilities and parks, transportation, and road infrastructure while planning
for future growth.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 33.003 ANNEXATION/ZONING.
   All annexed property entering the town will be zoned Open Space, pending
future changes recommended by the Town Planning and Zoning Commission, and
approved by the Town Board.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 33.004 EXPANSION AREA MAP.
   (A)   The expansion area map,
Exhibit A, shows properties both inside and outside of the town’s current
boundaries. In accordance with Iron County's request to clean up town boundary
lines, properties will be considered for annexation based on the below listed
criteria.
   (B)   All properties will be considered for annexation on a case-by-case
basis by the Planning Commission and Town Board. The Town Board will work in
conjunction with Iron County and/or any other "affected entities" as needed. A
map showing the town’s potential annexation boundary is contained in the
general plan. These properties are not bordered by any other municipality. Even
though the proposed properties may lie within the expansion area, there is no
guarantee that the annexation request will be approved by the town.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 33.005 POPULATION.
   As mentioned in the town general plan, the town will encourage retaining and
protecting that character of low-density rural residential areas; maintain a
sense of neighborhood, home, and community for existing and new residential
areas; provide for new housing development, while ensuring that the character,
scale, and density of these residences conform to the community standards and
goals; provide safe drinking water and quality service for the community
through responsible management and protection of water sources and
infrastructure; and maintain all highways and streets, culverts, and drainage
ditches to improve traffic mobility, and to reduce or avoid potential flood
damage to residential property.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 33.006 PROCEDURAL POLICY/CRITERIA.
   The following are policy statements and criteria the town will use in
determining whether to approve future annexation petitions.
   (A)   Procedural policy.
      (1)   The Town Planning Commission shall:
         (a)   Hold a public meeting on the annexation policy plan and revised
map:
            1.   Mail written notice to all affected entities at least 14 days
before the public meeting;
            2.   Accept written comments for ten days; and
            3.   Make any changes to the annexation policy plan and/or revised
map; and
         (b)   Hold a public meeting on the annexation policy plan update:
            1.   Provide notice of public meeting to all affected entities;
            2.   Give notice to each affected entity at least 14 days before
meeting;
            3.   Make final modifications of the proposed annexation policy
based on public input at the public meeting; and
            4.   Submit the Planning Commission's recommended annexation policy
plan to the Town Board;
      (2)   The Town Board shall approve of the annexation policy plan:
         (a)   The Town Board may reject or adopt the proposed policy plan. To
adopt the annexation policy plan, the town shall: hold a public hearing on the
proposed annexation policy plan, provide notice with a Class A notice (ten
days), and provide notice to each affected entity 14-days before the public
hearing;
         (b)   After the public hearing, make appropriate modifications to the
annexation policy if needed;
         (c)   Adopt the new plan by ordinance; and
         (d)   Within 30 days after adopting the annexation policy plan, submit
a copy to Iron County.
   (B)   When considering future annexation.
      (1)   All annexations considered by the town must conform to the town
general plan and culinary water master plan. All plans may be amended by the
Town Board as deemed necessary and appropriate.
      (2)   Planning and Zoning Commission to review proposed annexation. To
facilitate orderly growth and development in the town, the Planning Commission
shall consider the following:
         (a)   Review all proposed annexations and make recommendations to the
Town Board;
         (b)   The Commission shall consider the effects of these properties on
the town's general plan;
         (c)   Attempt to avoid gaps and/or overlays with the expansion areas
of Iron County or other municipalities;
         (d)   Consider population growth projection for the municipality and
surrounding areas; and
         (e)   Consider current and projected costs of infrastructure for
services and public facilities.
      (3)   Annexation to be considered only in areas of potential urban
service. The town's policy is to consider annexation only in those areas where
the town has the potential to provide urban service (either directly or through
inter-local cooperative agreement). These areas may include locations served or
to be served by the town's water system, and emergency services, including fire
protection.
   (C)   Annexation criteria.
      (1)   To be considered for annexation, the proposed real property must:
         (a)   Have a portion of their real property located in Iron County and
in the town; and
         (b)   Have a town water meter.
      (2)   Property to be annexed must be included in the current the town
annexation map.
      (3)   The annexation petition must be accompanied by a recordable map
prepared by a licensed land surveyor.
      (4)   The annexation petition must be signed by the real property owners
of record.
      (5)   All fees and/or costs shall be paid at the time the annexation
petition is filed with the Town Clerk.
      (6)   When annexing avoid gaps between or overlaps with the expansion
areas of other counties and municipalities.
      (7)   Proposed annexations will not be approved if they create an island
or peninsula of the unincorporated area.
      (8)   Proposed annexation will not be considered if it creates a
landlocked piece of property.
      (9)   Areas to be annexed will not be considered if they were a part of a
previously filed annexation petition that has not been either denied, accepted,
or approved.
      (10)   When feasible, the town favors annexation along boundaries of
water, utility improvements, special service districts, or other taxing
entities.
      (11)   It is not the town's intent to annex territory for the sole
purpose of acquiring revenue.
      (12)   There has been no exclusion of urban development within the policy
plan. No urban development exists within half a mile of the town boundary.
      (13)   The annexation petition must comply with the requirements of Utah
State Code.
      (14)   Consideration should be given to encourage the equitable
distribution of community resources and obligations.
      (15)   The town will consult with political and/or affected entities
whenever possible to develop an annexation plan that works for all interested
parties.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 33.007 DEVELOPMENT OF SERVICES.
   All areas included in the annexation policy plan will need municipal
services. Iron County policy is that municipal services should be provided by
cities and towns, and not by the county. All annexed properties must conform to
the culinary water master plan, zoning ordinances, and general plan for water
sewer, streets, parks, and storm drainage.
   (A)   Developer pays service extension. In areas where municipal services
are not presently extended, services will be extended on an as-needed basis at
the cost of the developer. All extensions of municipal services must comply
with all town ordinances and policy criteria and will be paid for by the
individual developer or property owner.
   (B)   Annexation agreements. An annexation agreement will be prepared
between the town, future developers, and/or property owners outlining specific
circumstances relating to zoning, water, septic, streets, electricity,
telecommunications, fiber optic/broadband, and other specific improvements.
   (C)   Water rights. Water rights, of the type and quantity acceptable to the
town, that can be utilized for underground water rights (culinary, secondary)
shall be required to be conveyed to the town as a condition of development,
subdivision approval or issuance of a building permit on property annexed into
the town limits. It is the intent that land annexed into the town be
accompanied by approved, useable water rights sufficient to accommodate the
needs of the existing and potential occupants of said land when development
occurs. The water rights conveyance requirements of development shall be in
addition to a requirement that may be imposed upon development of the land
after annexation and in addition to appropriate the town impact fees, if
applicable. Water requirements will be established utilizing, among other
things, Division of Drinking Water standards. Specific requirements will be
contained in the annexation agreement, but the general guidelines of one acre
foot of water per residential building permit will be minimum standard. The
annexation will allow developers of the annexed property access to culinary
water, and other services, provided all developments meet town specifications
and comply with all applicable development ordinances and all improvements are
installed pursuant to the town standards.
   (D)   Financial implications.
      (1)   The way these amenities are developed will have a bearing on how
they will be financed. Property taxes with increased valuation of property and
sales tax will contribute to the general fund to help defray the added expenses
the town may incur by annexing these properties. In summary, the newly annexed
developing areas shall finance the extension of needed municipal services, such
as new utilities, streets, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, and other capital
improvement occurs.
      (2)   It is not anticipated that the annexation will cause any adverse
consequences to the residents in the town or in the annexed area, except there
may be a slight reduction in general services to the city residents in the
present town limits as general services are expanded into the newly annexed
territory.
      (3)   It is anticipated that residents in the annexed territory may
notice a change in their property tax as certified tax rates between the county
and the town may be different. It is further anticipated that as newly annexed
territory property taxes are received by the town, the town would expand the
total services to include the total community. Additionally, persons in the
newly annexed territory may experience reductions in their fire insurance rates
and property insurance rates.
      (4)   As areas grow and become more populated, the demand and need for
services increase. Once this policy plan is adopted and areas begin to develop,
continual planning by the town will allow development to occur in an economical
manner, since homes, building, streets, and other amenities will be developed
in accord with the town specifications. The plan and time frame for the
extension of municipal services will be determined by the interest of the
property owners to subdivide and develop their property.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 33.008 THE INTEREST OF ALL AFFECTED ENTITIES.
   (A)   Iron County. Iron County's policy has been that municipal type of
development should take place in cities. All the land shown in the annexation
policy area would be able to be served by the town.
   (B)   Iron County School District. Iron County School District is involved
in the boundaries of the annexation area, and it is anticipated that Iron
County School District will provide school service to the area.
   (C)   Enoch City and Iron County Landfill and Garbage Collection provides
landfill service and garbage collection for the whole county. District
facilities have been sized to accommodate the growth of all cities.
   (D)   Central Iron County Water Conservancy District addresses issues of
water shed protection and water resource development. The district requires
detention facilities so that run-off does not exceed historic flows.
   (E)   Kanarra Field and Reservoir Irrigation Company provides secondary
(irrigation) water to residents of the town and surrounding areas.
   (F)   Kanarraville and Cedar City Fire Departments provide emergency fire
services to the town and surrounding areas.
   (G)   Iron County Sheriff provides emergency services to the town and the
unincorporated county.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 33.009 ENVIRONMENTAL AND LAND USE ISSUES.
   (A)   Unincorporated areas surrounding the town should be analyzed in terms
of environmental and land use issues as it relates to possible annexations. The
environmental and land use issues that were analyzed included in the general
plan and are as follows.
   (B)   Development in sensitive lands will be limited to protect and preserve
environmentally and geographically sensitive lands in the town. New development
shall be prohibited above the elevation of 5,700 feet mean sea level unless it
be demonstrated that the development would not adversely impact, or be impacted
by, the following:
      (1)   Fault and earthquake hazards;
      (2)   Subsurface rock and soil types;
      (3)   Slope of the land;
      (4)   Groundwater recharge areas and local groundwater conditions;
      (5)   Flood hazards and erosion types;
      (6)   Viewscapes;
      (7)   Flood plains;
      (8)   Elevation;
      (9)   Cost of city services;
      (10)   Wildlife habitat; and
      (11)   Water quality.
   (C)   The Planning Commission will analyze each area proposed for annexation
in accordance with the criteria outlines in the land use element of the general
plan and this annexation plan.
   (D)   Justification for excluding urban development within one-half mile of
town's current boundary. There are no urban developments within one-half mile
of the town's current boundary that would be excluded from this annexation
policy plan.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 33.010 PUBLIC COMMENTS.
   Copies of all written comments submitted by any interested party either
during public meetings, hearings or during the adoption process of this
annexation policy plan have been attached hereto.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 33.011 PROCEDURES FOR SUBMISSION OF AN ANNEXATION REQUEST.
   See Exhibit B attached to Ord. 10-9-2025 for all requirements and procedures
for an annexation request per Utah State Code.
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
EXHIBIT A: ANNEXATION MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/208bc5ae7a6a8cf9b84b6d02675fd4fb97910795/
IMAGES/0-0-0-993.png]
 
(Ord. 10-9-2025, passed 10-9-2025)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
Fees
   
50.001   Base water rate
   
50.002   Additional water charges
   
50.003   Water rates
   
50.004   Water connection charge
   
50.005   Charge for failure to pay
   
50.006   Restoration requirements
   
50.007   Re-connection fee
   
50.008   Unoccupied homes
   
50.009   Tampering
   
50.010   Obstruction of water meter
   
50.011   Impact fee
   
50.012   Fee for every water connection
   
50.013   Credit/debit card processing fee
Fixing of Fees Collected
   
50.025   Definitions
   
50.026   Fees collected
Water Department
   
50.040   Water Department created
   
50.041   Superintendent created
   
50.042   Duties of Superintendent
Application for Water Service
   
50.055   Application for water connection
   
50.056   Application for water connection by subdivider
   
50.057   Application for service
   
50.058   Non-owner applicants
   
50.059   Rates and connection fees
   
50.060   Special rates
   
50.061   Board of Equalization
   
50.062   Non-payment use
   
50.063   Delinquency
Requirements for Water Connection
   
50.075   Water turn on
   
50.076   Separate connections
   
50.077   Unauthorized users
   
50.078   Visitors
   
50.079   Good repair of pipe
   
50.080   Quality of pipe
   
50.081   Pipe across lots
   
50.082   Faulty equipment
   
50.083   Sprinkling vehicles
   
50.084   Free access
   
50.085   Non-liability for damages
   
50.086   Motors, syphons
   
50.087   Sprinklers
   
50.088   Scarcity of water
   
50.089   Waste of water
   
50.090   Water meters
   
50.091   Permit for installation
   
50.092   Applications for installation permit
   
50.093   Moving or replacement of water lines
   
50.094   Discontinuance of service
   
50.095   Fire hydrants
   
50.096   Water main extension
   
50.097   Amount of cost deposited with Clerk
   
50.099   Extensions may be master-metered
   
50.100   Costs of extensions to be determined by Superintendent
   
50.101   Cross-connection protection
   
50.102   Distance of septic tanks from culinary well
FEES
§ 50.001 BASE WATER RATE.
   (A)   The base rate for 17,000 gallons of water or less will be $32.
   (B)   The overage rate tiers are as follows:
 
Cost per 1,000 Gallons
$2.50 17,001 to 25,999
$3    26,000 to 34,999
$3.50 35,000 to 43,999
$4    44,000 to 52,999
$4.50 53,000 to 9,999,999
 
(Res. 10-08-09, passed 10-8-2009; Res. 09-09-21A, passed 9-9-2021; Ord. 02-13-
25A, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 50.002 ADDITIONAL WATER CHARGES.
   (A)   A water turn off charge of $25 shall be established and imposed
whenever it is required.
   (B)   A water reconnection charge of $250 shall be established and imposed
whenever it is required.
   (C) A deposit of $250 is required on all new active Water Department
accounts. On final settlement and closing of the account, this deposit may be
used to pay for any outstanding or unpaid bills for prior service. Any unused
balance at the time of closing the account will be returned to the primary
account holder.
(Res. 08-13-09, passed 8-13-2009; Res. 09-08-22, passed 9-8-2022; Ord. 02-13-
25A, passed 2-13-2025; Ord. 10-9-25A, passed 10-9-2025)
§ 50.003 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The following water rates are hereby adopted and shall hereafter be
charged to customers of the town culinary water system:
      (1)   Residential customers. Residential customers are defined as all
those living in a single-family residence as stated in
Chapter 152. The base rate to be charged to residential customers over the next
five years shall be as follows:
 
Residential Base Rate:
0 - 17,000 gallons (including dormant and inactive meters)
2026 $35 per month, per connection
2027 $38 per month, per connection
2028 $41 per month, per connection
2029 $44 per month, per connection
2030 $47 per month, per connection
 
      (2)   Commercial customers. Commercial customers are defined as those
operating a for-profit commercial business located in a commercial zone as
stated in
Chapter 152. Home-based businesses located in a residential zone are not
considered a commercial customer. The base rate to be charged to commercial
customers over the next five years shall be as follows:
 
Commercial Base Rate:
0 - 17,000 gallons (including dormant and inactive meters)
2026 $55 per month, per connection
2027 $58 per month, per connection
2028 $61 per month, per connection
2029 $64 per month, per connection
2030 $67 per month, per connection
 
      (3)   Institutional customers. Institutional customers are defined as
non-residential, non- commercial organizations in the town, including but not
limited to municipalities, churches, or schools. The base rate to be charged to
institutional customers over the next five years shall be as follows:
 
Institutional Base Rate:
0 - 17,000 gallons (including dormant and inactive meters)
2026 $85 per month, per connection
2027 $88 per month, per connection
2028 $91 per month, per connection
2029 $94 per month, per connection
2030 $97 per month, per connection
 
   (B)   Water rate tiers. The water rate tiers are listed as follows:
 
From 17,0001 to 26,000 gallons $2.50 per 1,000 gallons
From 26,001 to 35,000 gallons  $3 per 1,000 gallons
From 35,001 to 44,000 gallons  $3.50 per 1,000 gallons
From 44,001 to 53,000 gallons  $4 per 1,000 gallons
Over 53,001 gallons            $4.50 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 2-26-26, passed 2-26-2026)
§ 50.004 WATER CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   A water connection charge of $2,500 will be paid to the water company
after such a connection is approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   The fee must be paid at the time of application.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003; Res. 08-11-22, passed 8-11-2022; Ord. 07-11-
24, passed 7-11-2024; Ord. 02-13-25A, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 50.005 CHARGE FOR FAILURE TO PAY.
   There is a $10 late fee if the bill is received after the tenth of every
month. In addition, any outstanding remaining balance will be charged 2%.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 02-13-25A, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 50.006 RESTORATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water service will be not be restored until the delinquent billing has
been brought current, and the interest paid on the delinquent billing.
   (B)   Any debt incurred as part of the collection of the debt will also be
charged to the property owner listed on the account.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.007 RE-CONNECTION FEE.
   A fee of $250 will be charged to re-connect the meter on an occupied home.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 02-13-25A, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 50.008 UNOCCUPIED HOMES.
   (A)   An unoccupied home that has delinquent billing will have the water
turned off and the meter locked.
   (B)   Before water will be reconnected, all delinquent bills and past fees
must be paid in addition to a $250 reconnection fee.
§ 50.009 TAMPERING.
   Anyone tampering with the water meter or putting a jumper in the line to
obtain water illegally may be found guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and
penalized up to $750.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.010 OBSTRUCTION OF WATER METER.
   (A)   A fee of $50 may be charged to the customer’s water bill for any
obstruction of the water meter resulting in the inability to read or repair
said meter as needed.
   (B)   There must be at least a three feet unobstructed circumference around
the meter at all times.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 02-13-25A, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 50.011 IMPACT FEE.
   The impact fee is $5,753, payable to “Kanarraville Town Impact Fee” by
separate check from the connection fee. This fee is to be entered into a
separate internal accounting category in the Enterprise Fund.
(Res. 05-13e-04, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. 02-13-25A, passed 2-13-2025; Ord. 04-
10-25, passed 4-10-2025)
§ 50.012 FEE FOR EVERY WATER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The base rate for 17,000 gallons of water or less will be $32.
   (B)   The overage tiers are as follows:
 
Cost per 1,000 Gallons Low Gallons High Gallons
$2.50                  17,001      25,999
$3                     26,000      34,999
$3.50                  35,000      43,999
$4                     44,000      52,999
$4.50                  53,000      9,999,999
 
(Res. 05-13b-04, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. 02-13-25A, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 50.013 CREDIT/DEBIT CARD PROCESSING FEE.
   (A)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to the authority granted
to municipalities under the laws of the State of Utah, including but not
limited to UCA §§ 10-8-14 and 10-8-84, which authorize municipalities to
establish and collect reasonable fees for municipal utilities and services.
   (B)   Credit and debit card processing fee for utility payments.
      (1)   Fee established. Customers who elect to pay water utility bills
and/or security deposits using a credit or debit card shall pay a 5% processing
fee intended to recover the town’s cost of electronic payment processing.
      (2)   Automatic adjustment. The processing fee shall automatically adjust
as needed to reflect the approximate rates, charges, or fees imposed by the
town’s contracted payment processor without the need for further ordinance
amendment.
      (3)   Disclosure. The processing fee shall be clearly disclosed to the
customer prior to completion of the payment transaction, and the customer shall
have the opportunity to cancel the transaction before the fee is applied.
      (4)   Separate charge. The processing fee shall be separate from and in
addition to any water
utility charges, late fees, penalties, or other amounts owed to the town.
(Ord. 3-11-26, passed 3-26-2026)
FIXING OF FEES COLLECTED
§ 50.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONNECTION FEE. The cost of materials and labor to install a connection to
the existing water system. The CONNECTION FEE should not exceed the actual cost
of the installation although it can be an average amount charged equally to
each account holder. The method of collecting moneys is to be determined by the
Town Council by resolution.
   DEPRECIATION FUND. The moneys collected from the monthly water payment for
the replacement of damaged pipes, water meters, telemetry lines, and the
purchase of replacement pumps or the repair of existing wells and springs. The
amount of moneys collected is to be determined by the Town Council by
resolution.
   IMPACT FUNDS. The moneys collected at the time the water permit is granted
that are reserved for the expansion of the water system that will serve
customers not now connected to the water system. The amount of moneys collected
is to be determined by the Town Council by resolution after the completion of
an impact fee study.
   PRIMARY ACCOUNT HOLDER. Refers to the person or persons listed as the
property owner on the application for water service and/or application for
water connection. Said property owner will be solely responsible for all bills,
charges and/or fees associated with said water account (including all garbage,
transfer station and administrative fees).
   PROPERTY OWNER. Person or persons listed as owner of the property and the
primary account holder on the water account.
(Ord. 02-12-04, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 50.026 FEES COLLECTED.
   (A)   (1)   The fees to be collected by the water company for connections
and depreciation and impact of growth shall be fixed, from time to time, by
resolution and by a majority vote of the Town Council with a quorum present.
      (2)   The Town Council may, from time to time, promulgate rules for
levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting charges for culinary water
services and all other rules necessary for the management and control of the
system.
   (B)   (1)   Rates for services furnished shall be uniform with respect to
each class or classes of service established or that may hereafter be
established.
      (2)   Rates may be established at different levels for premises outside
the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (C)   Bank accounts for the Depreciation Fund and the impact fee will be
part of the Water Fund and will be recorded through internal accounting as
approved by the Town Council and can be revised and established as separate
accounts according to the desires of the Town Council without a resolution, but
by majority vote of a quorum.
(Ord. 02-12-04, passed 2-12-2004)
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 50.040 WATER DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   The Water Department of the town is hereby created. It shall administer the
operation and maintenance of the water system of the town.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.041 SUPERINTENDENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created the position of Superintendent of the Water
Department.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.042 DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent of the water system shall manage and supervise the
town water system pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to
ordinances, rules and regulations adopted by the Town Council, from time to
time, prescribing his or her powers and duties and directing the manner and
frequency with which he or she shall make reports to the Mayor relating to the
water system.
   (B)   All of the functions and activities of the Superintendent shall be
carried on under the direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE
§ 50.055 APPLICATION FOR WATER CONNECTION.
   Any person who desires or is required to secure a connection to the town
water system, either active or inactive, shall file with the Water Department
for each such connection the appropriate application.
 
APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION
TO THE TOWN WATER SYSTEM (ACTIVE METER)
TO THE TOWN OF KANARRAVILLE, UTAH
I, _______________________________, hereafter referred to as "Applicant",
hereby apply to the Town of Kanarraville for permission to connect my premises
at ___________________________________ to the town's water system and hereby
agree to the following:
1. To pay Kanarraville Town, at the time of application, an Impact Fee of
$5,753, a connection charge of approximately $2,500*, and a security deposit of
$250. If paying by check, separate checks are to be made out in the amount of
$5,753 to "Kanarraville Town Impact Fee", and $2,750 to "Kanarraville Water
Department" to cover the connection charge and security deposit. Applicant is
responsible for all costs associated with the water connection from the meter
to the main line (meter, meter barrel, lid, saddle, parts, excavator fees,
boring under or digging through the road, road repair, piping, parts, etc.)
*After the water connection is complete, applicant will be billed for any and/
or all remaining connection costs over the $2,500. The completed water
connection to the main line, all its parts and materials, shall remain the
property of Kanarraville Town, and the town shall always have access thereto.
2. Every water connection will be treated as a separate water account requiring
that all forms be filled out and fees paid before the town will connect the
residence to the water system.
3. The location of the meter, whether on my premises, or at some point near my
premises, may be decided solely by the Town of Kanarraville, Utah.
4. Before making connection with the water system, Applicant shall cause the
plumbing upon the above stated premises to be inspected by the town and if the
plumbing is not approved, Applicant will cause the plumbing to be rectified at
their own expense to meet the requirements of the town or of any other
governmental agency having jurisdiction to regulate the water system within the
town.
5. Applicant will be bound by the rules, regulations, resolutions or ordinances
enacted now or hereafter by the Town of Kanarraville, Utah, applicable to the
town's water system.
6. This water connection will be used for culinary purposes. The town shall
have free access to the lines and meters installed under this agreement and, at
reasonable times, through my property if necessary.
7. Water will be turned on after the connection has been made, the Application
for Service has been filed with the Water Department Secretary has been filled
out, and as soon as all deposits and fees have been paid.
8. Billing will commence as soon as the water has been turned on and will
continue until the account has been closed by notifying the Water Department
Secretary in writing that the meter is to be turned off.
9. As the Property Owner (landlord), I understand that I am the Primary Account
Holder on the water account and will be solely responsible for all charges and
fees unless I have notified the Town Treasurer to close my account and
discontinue service.
Dated this ____________ day of __________________________, 20___.
___________________________________________
Applicant/Property Owner/Primary Account Holder
Kanarraville Town gives permission to connect the above stated property to the
water main once all fees have been paid and the required paperwork has been
submitted.
Dated this ________ day of __________________________, 20___.
 
_______________________________________________
Kanarraville Town Treasurer/Water Department Secretary
 
 
 
APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION
TO THE TOWN WATER SYSTEM (IN-ACTIVE METER)
TO THE TOWN OF KANARRAVILLE, UTAH
I, _______________________________, hereafter referred to as "Applicant",
hereby apply to the Town of Kanarraville for permission to connect my premises
at ___________________________________ to the town's water system and hereby
agree to the following:
1. To pay Kanarraville Town, at the time of application, an Impact Fee of
$5,753, and a connection charge of approximately $2,500*. If paying by check,
separate checks are to be made out in the amount of $5,753 to "Kanarraville
Town Impact Fee", and $2,500 to "Kanarraville Water Department". Applicant is
responsible for all costs associated with the water connection from the meter
to the main line (meter, meter barrel, lid, saddle, parts, excavator fees,
boring under or digging through the road, road repair, piping, parts, etc.)
*After the water connection is complete, applicant will be billed for any and/
or all remaining connection costs over the $2,500. The completed water
connection to the main line, all its parts and materials, shall remain the
property of Kanarraville Town, and the town shall always have access thereto.
2. Every water connection will be treated as a separate water account requiring
that all forms be filled out and fees paid before the town will connect the
residence to the water system.
3. The location of the meter, whether on my premises, or at some point near my
premises, may be decided solely by the Town of Kanarraville, Utah.
4. After connection to the water system, the meter will be turned off and
locked until the Applicant notifies the Water Department Secretary in writing
that they are ready to have water to the residence turned on.
5. Before making connection with the water system, Applicant shall cause the
plumbing upon the above stated premises to be inspected by the town and if the
plumbing is not approved, Applicant will cause the plumbing to be rectified at
their own expense to meet the requirements of the town or of any other
governmental agency having jurisdiction to regulate the water system within the
town.
6. Applicant will be bound by the rules, regulations, resolutions or ordinances
enacted now or hereafter by the Town of Kanarraville, Utah, applicable to the
town's water system.
7. This water connection will be used for culinary purposes. The town shall
have free access to the lines and meters installed under this agreement and, at
reasonable times, through my property if necessary.
8. Water will be turned on after the connection has been made, the Application
for Service has been filed with the Water Department Secretary, and the $250
security deposit has been paid.
9. Billing will commence as soon as the water has been turned on and will
continue until the account has been closed by notifying the Water Department
Secretary in writing that the meter is to be turned off.
10. As the Property Owner (landlord), I understand that I am the Primary
Account Holder on the water account and will be solely responsible for all
charges and fees unless I have notified the Town Treasurer to close my account
and discontinue service.
Dated this ____________ day of __________________________, 20___.
___________________________________________
Applicant/Property Owner/Primary Account Holder
Kanarraville Town gives permission to connect the above stated property to the
water main once all fees have been paid and the required paperwork has been
submitted.
Dated this ________ day of __________________________, 20___.
 
 
_______________________________________________
Kanarraville Town Treasurer/Water Department Secretary
 
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021; Ord. passed
- -)
§ 50.056 APPLICATION FOR WATER CONNECTION BY SUBDIVIDER.
   Whenever a subdivider or developer desires or is required to install water
connections and extensions for a subdivision or development, the subdivider or
developer shall enter into a written extension agreement which shall constitute
an application for permission to make the extensions and connections and an
agreement specifying the terms and conditions under which the water extensions
and connections shall be made and the payments that shall be required.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.057 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Any person who desires or is required to secure service when such service is
available from the town shall file with the Water Department a written
application and agreement for the service, which shall be in substantially the
following form:
 
APPLICATION FOR SERVICE
SERVICES INCLUDE: CULINARY WATER, TRASH, LANDFILL AND TRANSFER STATION
TO THE TOWN OF KANARRAVILLE, UTAH
The undersigned Property Owner hereafter referred to as the "Primary Account Holder" hereby applies for water
service from the Town of Kanarraville, Utah for the premises located at:
Property Owner Name: _______________________________________________
Mailing Address: ____________________________________________________
Physical Address: ____________________________________________________
Email Address: ______________________________________________________
Best Contact Number: ________________________________________________
As Primary Account Holder, I hereby agree to the following:
1. To pay charges for such culinary water, trash, landfill and transfer station services as are fixed by the Town
Board until such time as I shall direct such service to be discontinued (see attached Fee Schedule) ______
(initial)
2. That all trash cans require a one-time rental fee of ($95) to be paid to the Water Department Secretary before
being delivered to my residence. _____ (initial)
3. I understand that my water will not be turned on until the $250 water account security deposit has been paid. It
is agreed and understood that the town may apply the deposit to unpaid bills due to prior service at the time the
account is closed, and the property is sold. On final settlement of the account, any unused balance of the deposit
will be refunded to the Primary Account Holder. _____ (initial)
4. In the event of a failure to pay the charges within 30 days of the date of this notice or of a failure to
conform to the ordinances and regulations established by the Town Board regulating the use of the culinary water
system, then the town may discontinue the water system service and the meter will be locked, pursuant to written
notice delivered to the Primary Account Holder by certified mail of the town's intention, until all costs,
delinquencies and/or re-connection fees are paid in full by the Primary Account Holder or until any failure to
conform to this ordinance or regulations issued thereunder is eliminated. _____ (initial)
5. To be bound by the rules, regulations, resolutions and ordinances enacted or adopted by the Town Board
applicable to the town's water system. _____ (initial)
6. That the Water Account Security Deposit shall NOT be considered an advance payment for any service. Charges and
unpaid accounts shall be considered delinquent notwithstanding the existence of the deposit, and the Primary
Account Holder or user of water service shall not have the right to compel the town to apply the deposit to any
account to avoid delinquency. The above-named Primary Account Holder understands that the bill is considered
delinquent after 30 days from date on the bill. _____ (initial)
6. That as the property owner, I will be charged for all services until written notice to discontinue service or a
change of billing information has been filed with the Water Department Secretary. _____ (initial)
7. Non-Owner Applicants: Landlords (Property Owners) are solely responsible to see that renters pay their water
billing. Any delinquent or unpaid bills will be assessed against the Property Owner together with other charges or
fees levied by the Town Board of Kanarraville, Utah. _____ (initial)
Dated this __________ day of ____________________________, 20___.
______________________________________
                                          Property Owner (Primary Account Holder)
Dated this __________ day of ____________________________, 20___.
___________________________________________
Kanarraville Town Treasurer
 
 
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021; Ord., passed
- -)
§ 50.058 NON-OWNER APPLICANTS.
   Landlords (property owners) are solely responsible to see that renters pay
their water billing. Any delinquent or unpaid bills will be assessed against
the property owner together with other charges or fees levied by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.059 RATES AND CONNECTION FEES.
   The rates, penalty fee for delinquency in payment, connection fee,
inspection fee and other charges incidental to connection and services from the
town water system shall be fixed, from time to time, by ordinance enacted by
the Town Council. The Town Council may, from time to time, promulgate rules for
levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting charges for water services and
all other rules necessary for the management and control of the water system.
Rates for services furnished shall be uniform with respect to each class or
classes of service established or that may hereafter be established.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021; Ord., passed
- -)
§ 50.060 SPECIAL RATES.
   The Town Council may, from time to time, fix by agreement or ordinance
special rates and conditions for users using exceptionally large amounts of
water service or making use of the water system under exceptional
circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as it may deem proper.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021; Ord., passed
- -)
§ 50.061 BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.
   The Town Council is hereby constituted a Board of Equalization of water
rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any assessments deemed to be
illegal, unequal or unjust. It may, if it sees fit, rebate all or any part of
the water bill of any indigent person.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.062 NON-PAYMENT USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person by himself or herself, family, servants
or agents to utilize the town water system without paying therefor, as herein
provided, or, without authority, to open any fire hydrant, stopcock, valve or
other fixtures attached to the system of water supply unless it is done
pursuant to proper application, agreement or resolution. It shall be unlawful
to injure, deface or impair any part or appurtenance of the water system or to
cast anything into any reservoir or tank belonging to the water system.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see
§
10.999
§ 50.063 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The Water Secretary shall furnish each account holder or mail to or
leave at his or her place of residence or usual place of business a written or
printed statement stating thereon the amount of water service charges assessed
against him or her once each month or at such other regular intervals as the
Town Council shall direct.
   (B)   The statement shall specify the amount of the bill for the water
service and the place of payment and date due. If any account holder fails to
pay the water charges in full within 60 days of the date due or fails to make a
payment arrangement with the Water Secretary, or incurs an accumulated bill of
$500 or more, the Water Secretary shall give the primary account holder notice
through email, text, call and/or letter of intent to discontinue the service to
the property unless the bill is paid in full within five days from the date of
notice.
   (C)   If the water service is thereafter discontinued for failure to make
payment, then before the water service to the premises shall again be provided,
all delinquent water charges and/or fees must have been paid to the Treasurer
or arrangements made for their payment in a manner satisfactory to the Town
Council. In the event water is turned off for non-payment of water charges,
then before the water service to the premises shall again be provided, the
primary account holder shall pay, in addition to all delinquent water charges,
such extra charge for turning the water on and off as the Town Council may have
established by resolution. In addition to such payments and penalties, a
delinquent primary account holder may be required to make and file a new
application and deposit if the previous deposit has theretofore been applied to
the payment of delinquent bills. The Water Secretary is hereby authorized and
empowered to enforce the payment of all delinquent water charges by an action
at law in the name of the town.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 12-11-08, passed 12-11-2008; Ord. 13-02-
03A, passed 8-12-2021)
REQUIREMENTS FOR WATER CONNECTION
§ 50.075 WATER TURN ON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off
from the premises for non- payment of water charges or other violation of the
ordinances, rules, regulations or resolutions pertaining to the water supply,
to turn on or allow the water to be turned on or used without authority from
the Superintendent or Water Secretary.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.076 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more families or service users to be
supplied from the same service pipe, connection or water meter unless special
permission for such combination usage has been granted by the Town Council and
the premises served are owned by the same owner. In all such cases, a failure
on the part of any one of the users to comply with this section shall warrant a
withholding of a supply of water through the service connections until
compliance or payment has been made, and, in any event, the property owner
shall be primarily liable to the town for all water services utilized on all
such premises. Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude the power of the town
to require separate pipes, connections or meters at a subsequent time.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.077 UNAUTHORIZED USERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any water service user to permit any person from
other premises or any unauthorized person to use or obtain water services
regularly from his or her premises or water facilities, either outside or
inside his or her premises.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.078 VISITORS.
   Individuals visiting the premises of an authorized user in a recreational
vehicle, not including a mobile home, and continuing to live therein during the
period of visitation may receive water service from the service pipes or
facilities of the host during the visitation period which shall not exceed
three weeks. Continued use thereafter shall be deemed unauthorized and in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter relating to separate connections
and unauthorized use.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.079 GOOD REPAIR OF PIPE.
   All users of water services shall keep his, her or their service pipes and
connections and other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at his,
her or their own expense. No person, except under the direction of the Water
Superintendent, shall be allowed to dig into the street for the purpose of
laying, removing or repairing any service pipe.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.080 QUALITY OF PIPE.
   (A)   All service and other pipe used in conjunction with the water services
of the town shall be of such material, quality and specifications as the Town
Council may, from time to time, by resolution, provide, and shall be installed
at such distances below ground as may be specified by regulations relating to
the Water Department.
   (B)   All work, alterations or extensions affecting water pipes shall be
subject to the acceptance of the Water Superintendent and no connections with
any water mains shall be made without first obtaining a permit from the Town
Clerk or Water Superintendent.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.081 PIPE ACROSS LOTS.
   No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes across lots or
buildings to adjoining premises without permission from the Water
Superintendent and subject to such requirements relating to controls as may be
imposed by the Water Superintendent.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.082 FAULTY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any water user to:
   (A)   Waste water;
   (B)   Allow water to be wasted by stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or
pipes, or to allow tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow;
   (C)   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets, or stops or through
basins, water closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus; and
   (D)   Use the water for purposes other than for those which he or she has
applied or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for
controlling the water supply.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see
§
10.999
§ 50.083 SPRINKLING VEHICLES.
   Vehicles for sprinkling shall be regulated and controlled by the Water
Department through the Superintendent of the Water Department.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.084 FREE ACCESS.
   The Water Superintendent and his or her agents shall, at all ordinary hours,
have free access to any place supplied with water services from the town system
for the purpose of examining the apparatus and ascertaining the amount of water
service being used and the manner of its use.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.085 NON-LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   The town shall not be liable for any damage to a water service user by
reason of stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by
fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains or that
which occurs as the result of maintenance and extension operations or from any
other unavoidable cause.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to extend the liability of the
town, beyond that provided in the Governmental Immunity Act of the state, UCA §
63G-7  1 .
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 50.086 MOTORS, SYPHONS.
   No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the town water system for the
purpose of a driving motor, syphon, turbine or other wheels or any hydraulic
engines or elevators or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose,
except by special permission of the Town Council.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.087 SPRINKLERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use such number of outlets
simultaneously or to use such sprinkler or combinations of sprinkler or outlets
as will, in the opinion of the Town Council, materially affect the pressure or
supply of the water in the town water system or any part thereof and the Town
Council may, from time to time, by resolution, specify combinations or numbers
of outlets which may have such effect.
   (B)   The Town Council shall, after determining that such improper use
exists, notify the affected water user or the owner of the premises whereon
such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such use discontinued,
and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation of this section.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.088 SCARCITY OF WATER.
   In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Town Council be requisite, the Mayor shall, by proclamation, limit the
use of water to such extent as may be necessary. It shall be unlawful for any
person, his or her family, servants, or agents to violate any proclamation made
by the Mayor in pursuance of this section.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.089 WASTE OF WATER.
   (A)   (1)   Users of water from the town water system shall not permit water
to continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to conserve water.
      (2)   If, in the judgment of the Water Superintendent or of any of the
officers of the town, a user of the water system engages in practices which
result in the needless waste of water and continues so to do after reasonable
notice to discontinue wastefulness has been given, the Superintendent or any
officer may refer the matter to the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council may thereupon consider terminating the right of the
individual to use culinary water. If it elects to consider the matter of
termination, it shall give notice to the water user of the intention to
terminate his or her water connection at least five days prior to the meeting
of the Town Council at which termination of water service is to be considered.
The notice shall inform him or her of the time and place of the meeting and of
the charges which lead to the consideration of the termination.
   (C)   A water user whose right to utilize the town’s water is being reviewed
shall have opportunity to appear with or without counsel and present his or her
reasons why his or her water service should not be discontinued.
   (D)   (1)   After due hearing, the Town Council may arrive at a
determination.
      (2)   If the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user’s
service connection, it shall notify him or her of the decision and of the
period during which the service will remain discontinued.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.090 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this subchapter, all
structures, dwelling units, establishments and persons using water from the
town water system must have such number of water meters connected to his, her
or their water system as are necessary in the judgment of the Superintendent to
adequately measure use and determine water charges to the respective users.
   (B)   Meters will be furnished by the town upon application for a connection
and upon payment of such connection fees and other costs as may be established
by the Town Council from time to time by resolution.
   (C)   Meters shall be deemed to be and remain the property of the town.
Whenever a dispute between Superintendent and the property owner arises as to
the appropriate number of meters to be installed on any premises, the matter
shall be heard and determined by the Town Council after due notice in writing
to the parties involved.
   (D)   The Superintendent shall cause meter readings to be taken regularly
and shall advise the Water Secretary thereof for the purpose of recording the
necessary billings for water service.
   (E)   Meters may be checked, inspected or adjusted at the discretion of the
town and they shall not be adjusted or tampered with by the customer. Meter
boxes shall not be opened for the purpose of turning on or off the water,
except by an authorized representative of the town unless special permission is
given by the town through its representatives to the customer.
   (F)   If a customer submits a request to the Water Secretary to test his or
her water meter, the town may, if under the circumstances it deems it advisable
and, in its discretion, order a test of the meter measuring the water delivered
to such customer. If such request is made within 12 months after the date of
the last previous test, the customer may be required to pay the cost of $25 for
such test. If the meter is found in such test to record from 97% to 103% of
accuracy under methods of testing satisfactory to the Town Council, the meter
shall be deemed to accurately measure the use of water.
   (G)   If the town’s meters fail to register at any time, the water delivered
during the period of failure shall be estimated on the basis of previous
consumption during a period which is not questioned. In the event a meter is
found to be recording less than 97% or more than 103% of accuracy, the town
shall make such adjustments in the customer’s previous bills as are just and
fair under the circumstances, and then the town will replace or fix the faulty
meter.
   (H)   All damages or injury to water lines, meters or other materials of the
town on or near the customer’s premises caused by any act or neglect of the
customer shall, in the discretion of the town, be repaired by and at the
expense of the customer and the customer shall pay all costs and expenses,
including a reasonable attorney fee, which may arise or accrue to the town
through its efforts to repair the damage to the lines, meters or to other
equipment of the Department or collect such costs from the customer.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021; Ord. 02-13-
25A, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 50.091 PERMIT FOR INSTALLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, repair, alter or connect any
water line to the town culinary water system without first having received
approval from the Town Clerk and/or Town Council.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.092 APPLICATIONS FOR INSTALLATION PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Applications for permits to make water connections or other
alteration or for laying or repairing lines connected directly or indirectly to
the town water system must be made in writing to the Town Council.
      (2)   The application shall be granted if the Town Council determines
that:
         (a)   The connection, repair, alteration or installation will cause no
damage to the street in which the water main is laid, or that it will not be
prejudicial to the interests of persons whose property has been or may
thereafter be connected to the water main; and
         (b)   The connection conforms to the ordinances, regulations,
specifications and standard of materials required by the town.
   (B)   Fees for permits or for inspection services shall be of such amounts
as the Town Council shall, from time to time, determine by resolution.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.093 MOVING OR REPLACEMENT OF WATER LINES.
   In the event that the town, in its sole discretion, determines that any
water line of the town must be moved or replaced, the town shall bear that
portion of the cost of such move or replacement which applies to main lines up
to the property line of the customer. The cost of reconnecting such new line or
lines from the house of the customer to his or her property line shall be borne
by the customer.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.094 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Any customer desiring to discontinue water service shall notify the town, in
writing, of such fact at least ten days before the date when such service shall
be discontinued. On giving such written notice, the customer shall not be
responsible for water bills incurred after the date specified in the notice.
Any credit balance in favor of the customer as a result of an advance payment
of bills or a deposit will be refunded upon discontinuance of service.
Customers who vacate their homes for extended periods of time will continue to
receive water bills and be expected to pay those bills as they are due. Any
water customer who requests a water disconnection will be required to pay a new
water hook-up fee to reconnect to the town’s water system. A new connection
will be subject to the availability of a new meter. Unoccupied homes with
unpaid bills will have their meters disconnected by the discretion of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.095 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Water for fire hydrants will be furnished free of charge by the town.
Installation on such hydrants shall be at the expense of developers and sub-
dividers and shall be made under the direction of the Town Council. Repairs on
hydrants will be at the expense of the town. All customers shall grant the
town, upon demand, a right-of-way or easement to install and maintain such
hydrants on his, her or their premises if the town concludes that hydrants
shall be so installed for the protection of the residents of the town.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.096 WATER MAIN EXTENSION.
   Any person or persons, including any sub-divider, who desires to have the
water mains extended within the town and is willing to pay in advance the whole
expense of such extension and receive the return of an agreed portion thereof,
as hereinafter provided, may make application to the Town Council by petition.
The petition shall contain a description of such proposed extension accompanied
by a map showing the location of the proposed extension together with an offer
to advance the whole expense thereof, which cost shall be verified by the Water
Superintendent. The Town Council may grant or deny the petition as, in its
discretion, seems best for the welfare of existing water users in the town.
Upon the receipt of such petition and map and before the petition is granted,
the Town Council shall obtain from the Water Superintendent a certified
statement showing the whole cost of expense of making such extension.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.097 AMOUNT OF COST DEPOSITED WITH CLERK.
   (A)   If the Town Council grants the petition, the amount of the cost of
making the extension, as certified by the Water Superintendent, shall be
deposited with the Town Clerk before any work shall be done on such extension.
   (B)   The deposit shall be made within 30 days or such other time as the
Town Council shall indicate after the granting thereof.
      (1)   At the time the Town Council decides whether or not to grant
petition for an extension, it shall also decide whether or not any portion of
the cost is to be refunded and the manner and circumstances under which such
refund shall be made or credited to the applicant, his or her successors, or
representatives. Such determination shall be duly recorded in writing and a
copy thereof furnished to the applicant.
      (2)   In the event any deposit remains unclaimed for a period of five
years after the depositor has discontinued water service, the deposit may be
forfeited and then transferred to the town’s Water Utility Fund.
      (3)   Any such extension shall be deemed the property of the town.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.099 EXTENSIONS MAY BE MASTER-METERED.
   When an extension supplying more than one house or user outside the town
boundaries is connected to the town water mains, the Water Superintendent may
require a master-meter to be installed near the point where the connection is
to be made to the town main. This installation will be at the expense of the
persons served by such extension according to the regular rates for meter
installation. Responsible parties must agree to pay all bills for water served
through the meter at the applicable water rates.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.100 COSTS OF EXTENSIONS TO BE DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   Upon receipt of such petition and map and before the petition is granted,
the Town Council shall determine what portion, if any, of the extension of the
town water mains to the town limits the town shall construct, and shall obtain
from the Water Superintendent a verified statement showing the whole cost and
expense of making such extension. Such costs and expenses shall include
administrative and supervisory expenditures of the town’s Water Department,
which shall, in no event, be deemed to be less than 10% of the cost of
materials and labor.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.101 CROSS-CONNECTION PROTECTION.
   (A)   All connections to the town water system shall conform to the
International Plumbing Code, as adopted by the state, and the state’s Public
Drinking Water Regulations.
   (B)   Water service to customers will be discontinued under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   A backflow prevention assembly is required pursuant to UCA § 19-4-
112  1 ;
      (2)   Service of water to any building or location may, at the discretion
of the Town Council, be discontinued if the backflow prevention assembly
required is not installed, tested, and maintained, or if a backflow prevention
assembly has been removed, bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection
exists at the building or location where the Water Superintendent or his or her
representative determines that the risk to the town water system is a serious
threat to health or safety, then he or she may immediately terminate water
service to a building or location;
      (3)   The town’s Water Department may refuse to restore water service to
such building or location until such conditions or defects are corrected;
      (4)   The town shall give reasonable notice to the customer and/or owner
of the building or location of the termination of water service to the property
and where the customer could not reasonably be so notified before termination,
then notice shall be given promptly afterwards; and/or
      (5)   Removed or vandalized backflow prevention assemblies that are
replaced by the Water Superintendent or representative will be charged against
the customer’s regular water bill for the cost of the assembly.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 50.102 DISTANCE OF SEPTIC TANKS FROM CULINARY WELL.
   (A)   No septic tank shall be constructed or in any way built within 400
feet north, west or south of the culinary well in town that is used for
drinking water. No septic tank shall be constructed or in any way built within
2,500 feet east of said culinary well in the town.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be deemed a nuisance and, upon
conviction of the same, the violator may be punished by imprisonment in the
county jail for a period of time not to exceed three months or by a fine
established by the Town Council or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   As it is in the interest of the health and welfare of the residents of
the town, in the event of violation of the distances established by the town,
the town specifically reserves the right to require the removal of any
construction commenced in violation of this section.
   (D)   The Town Council reserves the right to issue variances to septic tanks
existing before 1972 within the well protection zone.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
Garbage Regulations
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   No accumulation of garbage
   
51.003   Closing of garbage containers required
   
51.004   Disposal of community waste
   
51.005   Burning of refuse prohibited
   
51.006   Prohibiting the illegal dumping of liquid and/or solid waste
   
51.007   Limitations upon dumping
   
51.008   Regulations
Garbage Service District
   
51.020   Creation of town garbage area
   
51.021   Establishment under state code annotated
   
51.022   Name
   
51.023   Purpose
   
51.024   Rights, powers and authority
   
51.025   Solid waste disposal and collection
   
51.026   Governing board
   
51.027   Service fees
   
51.028   Failure to pay service fee
   
51.029   Unlawful to dispose
   
51.030   “Occupied residence” defined
GARBAGE REGULATIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL GARBAGE. Garbage produced in commercial establishments, public or
quasi- public institutions or establishments, including restaurants, hotels,
motels and similar establishments.
   COMMUNITY WASTE. Lawn cutting, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves and
trees and tree branches.
   CONTAINER or REGULATION CONTAINER. A type of garbage or trash container of
galvanized metal or other approved material and having a tight-fitting lid or
properly and sufficiently treated weather-resistant bag manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
   GARBAGE. Waste from the preparation, handling, storing, cooking or
consumption of food and food products.
   REFUSE. All waste matter, except garbage, attending or resulting from the
occupancy of residences, apartments, hotels or other places of dwelling and
from the operation of a business. REFUSE shall not be deemed to include
industrial waste or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or
repair of a building or other structure.
   RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE. Garbage produced in places of private residence and
dining halls not open to the public.
§ 51.002 NO ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate garbage or refuse or
cause garbage or refuse to be deposited upon any street or alley or upon any
premises in the municipality.
   (B)   The Town Council may permit the processing of garbage or refuse upon
premises properly equipped and maintained so as to prevent the creation of a
nuisance or a hazard to health, or permit the depositing of ashes and other dry
material for filling purposes at such places as the Town Council may designate
and under such restrictions as the governing body may by regulation impose.
   (C)   Additionally, no person will be given permission to sort, bail and/or
market trade waste upon the premises of the transfer station.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 51.003 CLOSING OF GARBAGE CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   All garbage and market waste must be placed in rain-proof and fly-proof
receptacles of the type herein required, and the receptacle shall be tightly
closed in such a manner as to prevent offensive odors or flies.
§ 51.004 DISPOSAL OF COMMUNITY WASTE.
   (A)   Community waste may be disposed of by residents and business
establishments in vehicles provided by them, subject to regulation by the
governing body as to the places of disposal and as to the type of vehicle used
to avoid spillage upon public ways of the municipality, hazards to safety and
the prevention of nuisances.
   (B)   The governing body, from time to time, may provide for the collection
and disposal of such types of community waste as it may decide to collect and
haul in connection with its regular garbage, waste collection and disposal
service. In the event community waste disposal service should require a charge
to be made by the municipality, the determination of the charge will be made by
negotiation with the residents or business enterprises and the residents or
business enterprises will be given an opportunity to choose from among services
offered by persons other than the municipality.
§ 51.005 BURNING OF REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, market waste, manure or
other refuse in the open air or in any furnace or stove within the
municipality.
§ 51.006 PROHIBITING THE ILLEGAL DUMPING OF LIQUID AND/OR SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to:
      (1)   Prohibit the unlawful disposal of liquid and/or solid waste within
the town limits;
      (2)   Protect public health, safety, and the environment;
      (3)   Promote proper waste disposal practices; and
      (4)   Provide enforcement authority and penalties for violations.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings set forth below:
      LIQUID AND/OR SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, debris,
litter, yard waste,  construction or demolition waste, sewage, appliances,
furniture, tires, or any discarded material, hazardous liquids and/or
materials, whether residential, commercial, or industrial in nature.
      ILLEGAL DUMPING. The disposal, depositing, abandoning, or placing of
liquid and/or solid waste of any kind on public or private property without the
consent of the property owner or without authorization under applicable law.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
governmental entity, or other legal entity.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley, park, right-of-way, waterway, open
space, or other property owned or controlled by the town or another
governmental entity.
   (C)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
illegal dumping of liquid and/or solid waste within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (D)   Proper disposal of liquid and/or solid waste. All liquid and/or solid
waste must be disposed of as required by local and county law.
   (E)   Enforcement. This section may be enforced by the Iron County Sheriff,
or other officials authorized by the town.
   (F)   Penalties. Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor or infraction, and may be subject to fines, penalties, and costs as
provided by law.
   (G)   Nuisance and abatement. Illegal dumping of liquid and/or solid waste
is hereby declared a public nuisance. The town may abate such nuisance in
accordance with applicable local and county law and recover abatement costs
from the responsible party as necessary.
(Ord. 01-08-26A, passed 1-8-2026)
§ 51.007 LIMITATIONS UPON DUMPING.
   Dumping waste and garbage shall be permitted only in such places as are
designated by the governing body. Dumping shall be subject to such rules and
regulations as may be formulated by the governing body.
§ 51.008 REGULATIONS.
   The governing body may adopt such regulations as, in its opinion, are
necessary to implement this subchapter and its objectives.
GARBAGE SERVICE DISTRICT
§ 51.020 CREATION OF TOWN GARBAGE AREA.
   Public health, convenience and necessity warrant the creation of a town
garbage area serving all property lying within the town limits.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.021 ESTABLISHMENT UNDER STATE CODE ANNOTATED.
   Said district is ordered and declared duly formed, organized and established
under and by virtue of the provisions of UCA Title 17, Chapter 34, as amended,
and the same is hereby deemed a body corporate and politic and quasi-municipal
public corporation of the town.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.022 NAME.
   The corporate name of the district created hereby is and shall be hereafter
known as “Kanarraville Garbage District”, hereinafter referred to in this
subchapter as the “service area”.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.023 PURPOSE.
   The service area is created for the purpose of providing an extended town
service in the form of solid waste disposal and collection to the residents of
the town located within the service area, as described in §
51.020.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.024 RIGHTS, POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   The service area shall exercise through its proper officers all the rights,
powers and authority conferred upon service areas.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.025 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION.
   The service area is hereby empowered to provide and supply solid waste
disposal and collection within the area as such or deemed necessary and
desirable by the governing body thereof. The provisions of this service and the
necessary equipment, supplies, materials and facilities therefor may be
furnished by any means available by law to the service area as provided in the
municipal-type services to incorporated areas act or any amendments or
supplements thereto and any other applicable law.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.026 GOVERNING BOARD.
   The Council members of the town shall act as the governing board of the
service area. This Board shall have and are hereby vested with all the powers,
duties and responsibilities conferred upon such Board.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.027 SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   The following service charges will be levied upon all occupied
businesses and residences located within said service area: garbage $10.50 per
can; transfer station $2, landfill $3.75 per can and a $0.25 administrative
charge per can, and a one time can rental of $95. The governing board shall
provide for the collection and enforcement of payments as permitted law.
   (B)   The town hereby establishes a $40 fee for disposing of used
refrigerators. To discard refrigerators, fee must be paid to the Water
Department Secretary at the Town Hall, 40 South Main, Monday through Friday 10:
00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Take the receipt with you to the transfer station when
discarding the refrigerator.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991; Ord. 05-09-24, passed 5-9-2024; Ord. 02-13-25A, passed
2-13-2025)
§ 51.028 FAILURE TO PAY SERVICE FEE.
   The owner and/or occupant of lands located in the service area is hereby
determined to be liable for the payment of said service fee, if garbage
services are rendered or made available to such property. This fee shall be
delinquent 30 days from the date of billing. In the event the occupant fails to
make payment of the fee when due, then the owner shall be liable for payment of
the fee set forth in the last statement and billed accordingly and, if the fee
is not paid by the occupant or owner within 30 days, the said fee and
delinquencies as determined by the governing board shall be subject to
collection under the following method: the town service area may sue and
receive judgment for the amount due, including all delinquencies and expenses
in connection with the collection of said fee, together with interest at the
highest legal rate.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.029 UNLAWFUL TO DISPOSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of garbage, refuse,
animals or debris within the boundaries of the incorporated area of the town
after the service area collection system has been developed and put into
operation, except through the approved services provided by the service area,
unless such other disposal methods have been approved by the state’s Board of
Health.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to haul any garbage, refuse, rubbish, leaves,
tree limbs or other waste material in any vehicle upon a road located within
the town without having the material properly and adequately covered to prevent
the same from falling or being blown from said vehicle.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.030 “OCCUPIED RESIDENCE” DEFINED.
   OCCUPIED RESIDENCES, as found in §
51.027, shall be defined as those residences that are inhabitable, have water,
electrical power and are occupied at least one day in a given year.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   DOGS AT LARGE
CHAPTER 90: DOGS AT LARGE
Section
   
90.01   Definition
   
90.02   A dog at large that is deemed threatening or menacing but not causing
actual harm
   
90.03   A dog at large that causes harm or injury
§ 90.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG AT LARGE. A dog shall only be considered a DOG AT LARGE if it meets the
definitions and conditions outlined in §§
90.02 and
90.03. Any dog not meeting these specific criteria shall not be deemed a DOG AT
LARGE under this chapter. Dogs that are confined within the boundaries of their
owner's property or under direct control through physical restraint do not meet
the definition of a DOG AT LARGE under this chapter.
(Ord. 2-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 90.02 A DOG AT LARGE THAT IS DEEMED THREATENING OR MENACING BUT NOT CAUSING
ACTUAL HARM.
   Any person in fear of injury or danger from a dog at large may report the
incident to the proper town or county authorities. After reviewing such a
report, if determined necessary, a warning shall be issued to the owner or
possessor of the dog. For repeat offenses involving threatening behavior, fine
of $150.
(Ord. 2-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 90.03 A DOG AT LARGE THAT CAUSES HARM OR INJURY.
   A dog at large may not cause harm or injury to a person, property, domestic
animal, or agricultural animal. The victim may report the incident to the
proper town or county authorities. Upon receiving such a report, the owner or
possessor of the dog may be subject to a fine of $300. The Iron County
Sheriff's Department is authorized to impound the dog if necessary for public
safety.
(Ord. 2-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
      
111.   TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
CHAPTER 110: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Agent or representative
   
110.03   Business license
   
110.04   Zoning
   
110.05   Compliance
   
110.06   Tax
   
110.07   Garbage
   
110.08   Violations
   
110.09   Appeal authority
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall have the meaning respectively ascribed
to them by this chapter.
   ADMINISTRATOR. That person acting in the capacity of the town of
Kanarraville or designee.
   APPLICABLE LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS. Any laws, rules, regulations, and
codes (whether local, county, state, or federal) pertaining to the use and
occupancy of a privately owned dwelling unit as a short-term rental.
   APPLICANT. The owner of the short-term rental unit or the owner's authorized
agent or representative.
   BUSINESS LICENSE. A town issued business license that allows the use of a
privately owned residential dwelling as a short-term rental unit pursuant to
the provisions of this section and any other potential licensing required in
Kanarraville, Iron County, or Utah State Code.
   LOCAL DESIGNATED CONTACT PERSON. The person designated by the owner or the
owner's authorized agent or representative, for the purpose of receiving
information and/or communication regarding violations or complaints with
regards to this chapter.
   OPERATOR. The owner or the designated agent or representative of the owner
who is responsible for compliance with this section with respect to the short-
term rental.
   OWNER. The person(s) or entity(ies) that hold(s) legal and/or equitable
title to the subject short-term rental.
   PROPERTY. A residential legal lot of record on which a short-term rental is
located.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A privately owned residential dwelling, such as, but not
limited to, a single-family dwelling, or guest house for dwelling, lodging, or
sleeping purposes for any period less than 30 consecutive days, when the owner
is not present.
   TRANSIENT. for purposes of this section means any person who seeks to rent
or who rents a privately owned residential unit for a period less than 30
consecutive days.
(Ord. 05-23-24, passed 5-23-2024)
§ 110.02 AGENT OR REPRESENTATIVE.
   An owner may designate an agent or a representative to comply with the
requirements of this chapter on behalf of the owner. Notwithstanding, the owner
shall not be relieved from any responsibility or liability for non-compliance
with any applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy
of the subject short-term rental, regardless of whether such non-compliance was
committed by the owner's authorized agent or representative or the occupants of
the owner's short-term rental or their guests.
(Ord. 05-23-24, passed 5-23-2024)
§ 110.03 BUSINESS LICENSE.
   The operator is required to obtain an annual business license from the Town
Clerk before operating a short-term rental within the town limits. To apply for
a business license, contact the Town Clerk at HC 65 Box 148, Kanarraville UT
84742, 435-867-1852, or heidi@kanarraville.org to request an application.
Short-term rentals are required to submit a copy of the receipt and/or tax
report they receive after paying their monthly, quarterly, or yearly transient
taxes. After receiving the business license fee, a completed application, and
all the required information, the Town Clerk shall issue a new business license
or renew an expired license.
(Ord. 05-23-24, passed 5-23-2024)
§ 110.04 ZONING.
   Short-term rentals are permitted in all zones but are subject to the codes,
rules, and/or ordinances set forth by the Town Board. Short-term rentals are
defined as follows: a privately owned residential dwelling, such as, but not
limited to, a single-family dwelling, or guest house for dwelling, lodging, or
sleeping purposes for any period less than 30 consecutive days. In addition,
all short-term rentals are required to meet all public health and safety
standards set forth by Iron County and the State of Utah.
(Ord. 05-23-24, passed 5-23-2024)
§ 110.05 COMPLIANCE.
   The operator and/or local designated contact person shall use reasonably
prudent business practices to ensure that the short-term rental and its
occupants do not create unreasonable noise or disturbances, engage in
disorderly conduct, or violate any town law, rule, or regulation. Upon
notification that any occupant(s) and/or guest(s) of the short-term rental has
created an unreasonable noise or disturbance, engaged in disorderly conduct, or
committed violations of any applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to
the use and occupancy of the subject short-term unit, the operator and/or local
designated contact person must promptly respond to halt or prevent a recurrence
of such conduct. Failure of the owner, and/or operator to respond to such calls
or complaints in a reasonable time regarding the condition, operation, or
conduct of occupants and/or guests of the short-term rental, may be subject to
all administrative, legal, and equitable remedies available to the town.
(Ord. 05-23-24, passed 5-23-2024)
§ 110.06 TAX.
   Each short-term rental owner shall collect and remit transient room tax and
all state and local sales and use tax sales to the Utah State Tax Commission.
(Ord. 05-23-24, passed 5-23-2024)
§ 110.07 GARBAGE.
   Trash and refuse shall be kept in proper containers for the purpose of
collection by the county's authorized waste hauler on scheduled trash
collection days. The operator shall use reasonably prudent business practices
to ensure compliance with all garbage collection and disposal ordinances.
(Ord. 05-23-24, passed 5-23-2024)
§ 110.08 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever any operator and/or locally designated contact person fails to
comply with any provision of this chapter, the Town Board, Mayor, and Town
Clerk, working together, may then issue a written violation. This notice will
be served to the owner and/or authorized agent or representative on record by
certified mail. The notice will contain a time frame the owner/authorized agent
or representative must remedy such violations. Any violations not complied with
within the designated time frame may constitute grounds for suspension and/or
revocation of the business license.
(Ord. 05-23-24, passed 5-23-2024)
§ 110.09 APPEAL AUTHORITY.
   Any person or entity aggrieved by a decision in the enforcement and/or
administration of this chapter shall have the right to appeal such decision to
the Town Appeal Authority if a written request for an appeal is filed with the
Town Clerk within 30 of verification that the aggrieved person or entity has
been made aware of the decision.
(Ord. 05-23-24, passed 5-23-2024)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
Section
   
111.01   Transient room tax
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Transient room revenue tax
   
111.04   Business license requirement
   
111.05   Collection
   
111.06   Use
   
111.07   Exemptions
   
111.08   Penalties and interest
§ 111.01 TRANSIENT ROOM TAX.
   It is the intent and purpose of the town to adopt a transient room tax
pursuant to and in accordance with UCA § 59-12-352 et seq.
(Ord. 07-13-23, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall have the meaning respectively ascribed
to them by this chapter.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A place providing temporary accommodation to the
public and includes:
      (1)   Motel, hotel, inn;
      (2)   Motor court, RV park, or campground;
      (3)   Bed and breakfast;
      (4)   Vacation rental/resort home, Air BnB;
      (5)   A trailer, tent, room or residence including, but not limited to;
temporary rentable space.
   RENT. Any compensation received in exchange for providing public
accommodations, time share fees and dues.
   TRANSIENT. The occupation of public accommodation, by a person, of less than
30 consecutive days or less.
(Ord. 07-13-23, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 111.03 TRANSIENT ROOM REVENUE TAX.
   There is hereby levied upon the businesses of every person, company,
corporation, or other like and similar persons, groups, or organizations doing
business in the town as motor courts, RV parks, campground, motels, hotels, bed
and breakfasts, vacation rental/resort homes, Air BnB's, inns or the like, and
similar public accommodations, an annual license tax equal to 1% of the gross
revenue derived from the rent for each and every occupancy of a suite, tent,
trailer, room or rooms, for a period of less than 30 days. Subject to the
limitations of UCA § 59-12-352(1), the transient room tax may be modified at
any time by ordinance.
(Ord. 07-13-23, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 111.04 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   Businesses defined in the previous paragraph are required to obtain and keep
current a business license with the town. Any business that is subject to
collection of the municipal transient room tax, which does not maintain a
current business license, is in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-13-23, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 111.05 COLLECTION.
   The town shall contract with the State Tax Commission to collect the
municipal transient room tax. The Mayor is hereby authorized to enter into
agreements with the State Tax Commission that may be necessary for the
continued administration and operation of the transient room tax enacted by
this chapter.
(Ord. 07-13-23, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 111.06 USE.
   Revenues generated by the transient room tax shall be deposited in the
town's general fund and may be used for any general fund purpose as described
in UCA § 56-12-352(4). However, during the budget appropriations process, the
Town Board may decide to use these funds on projects that support recreation
and town beautification.
(Ord. 07-13-23, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 111.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   No transient room tax shall be imposed under this chapter upon any person:
   (A)   Engaged in business solely for religious, charitable, or other types
of strictly non-profit purpose who is tax exempt in such activities under the
laws of the United States and the State of Utah; or
   (B)   Engaged in a business specifically exempted from municipal taxation
and fees by the laws of the United States or the State of Utah.
(Ord. 07-13-23, passed 7-13-2023)
§ 111.08 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   Penalties and interest equal to those authorized by UCA §§ 59-1-401 and 59-
1-402 (as amended), or its successor, shall be imposed on any person who:
   (A)   Is required to pay the tax under this part; and
   (B)   Does not remit the tax to the collecting agent within the time
prescribed by law.
(Ord. 07-13-23, passed 7-13-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   CEMETERIES
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: CEMETERIES
Section
   
150.01   Kanarraville cemetery and contact information
   
150.02   Purchase of plots and fees
   
150.03   Burial rights and ownership
   
150.04   Plot headstones, memorial structures, monuments or markers
   
150.05   Cemetery rules and penalties
   
150.06   Duties of the town
   
150.07   Duties of the Sexton
§ 150.01 KANARRAVILLE CEMETERY AND CONTACT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Name. The burial ground of the town shall be known and designated the
name of Kanarraville Cemetery.
   (B)   Cemeteries covered. All cemeteries owned and/or maintained by the
town, wherever situated, are hereby declared subject to the provisions of these
rules and regulations.
   (C)   Contact information.
 
Town Sexton Mike Humes     435-704-1215 cemetery@kanarraville.org
Town Clerk  Heidi Loveland 435-867-1852 heidi@kanarraville.org
            40 South Main Street
Town Hall   HC 65 Box 148
            Kanarraville, UT 84742
 
(Ord. 06-27-24A, passed 6-27-2024)
§ 150.02 PURCHASE OF PLOTS AND FEES.
   (A)   Plot type, conditions and plot purchase price.
Plot Type Plot Description Permitted Burial Permitted Marker Purchase Price
                           Types            Types
Plot Type Plot Description   Permitted Burial Permitted Marker Purchase Price
                             Types            Types
I         *Resident single   Casket or urn(s) Upright or flat/ $200
          full plot                           low profile
II        Resident single    Casket or urn(s) Flat/low profile $200
          full plot                           only
III       Resident urn       Single urn only  Flat/low profile $100
          ground plot                         only
          Resident single
IV        urn- columbarium   Single urn only  Bronze cap       N/A
          niche (currently                    required
          not available)
V         **Non-resident     Casket or urn(s) Upright or flat/ $1,500
          single full plot                    low profile
VI        Non-resident       Casket or urn(s) Flat/low profile $1,500
          single full plot                    only
VII       Non-resident urn   Single urn only  Flat/low profile $750
          ground plot                         only
          Non-resident
          single urn-                         Bronze cap
VIII      columbarium niche  Single urn only  required         N/A
          (currently not
          available)
*To be considered a resident, purchaser must meet the following requirements:
   1. Have a driver’s license or UT listing an address in town limits.
   2. Be a registered voter in Kanarraville- Zone 1.
   3. Have primary residence in town limits or rent residential property in
town for at least one year.
   4. Have a town water meter connected to residence.
**Non-resident is defined as anyone who does not fit the description of a
resident.
 
   (B)   Sale of plots. 
      (1)   The Town Sexton is authorized to sell plots and shall deliver to
each purchaser a certificate of burial rights for each plot purchased which
shall describe the location of the plot. No more than four plots can be sold to
the same purchaser. A burial right conveyed shall be exempt from taxation. A
free grave plot shall be given to residents who have resided in the town for 50
continuous years.
      (2)   The certificates shall be issued and signed by the Mayor and shall
be attested by the Town Clerk. All lots or parts of lots, as provided in this
section, together with all improvements, shall be exempt from execution and
from taxation and assessment for care and maintenance charges from and after
said payment.
   (C)   Sale subject to rule. Every plot sold is subject to rules and
regulations that have been or may be adopted. The rules and regulations shall
be subject to such changes as are found necessary for the protection of plot
purchasers, the remains of the dead and the preservation of the cemetery.
   (D)   Plots shall not be reserved. Purchase price for all plots must be
fully paid (cash or check) at the time of sale to the Town Sexton. Checks shall
be made out to the town.
   (E)   Fee for opening and closing of plot.
      (1)   Standard opening and closing fee for casket burial is $300.
Additional costs may apply depending on the circumstances which are determined
by the Town Sexton and/or the Town Board.
      (2)   Standard opening and closing fee for single/double/triple urn
burial is $150. Additional costs may apply depending on the circumstances which
are determined by the Town Sexton and/or the Town Board.
      (3)   No opening, closing or interment, shall take place until all
appropriate fees have been paid to the Town Sexton or Town Clerk.
      (4)   To arrange the opening/closing of a plot, please complete the town
cemetery burial application and email it to the Town Sexton.
   (F)   Restriction of resale. The lots sold by the town for cemetery plots
shall not be further sold, transferred, conveyed or assigned to any person
except the town. The town agrees to repurchase any unused burial right at the
original purchase price as outlined on the certificate of burial right and
purchase agreement. Whenever a certificate to burial rights or plot reverts to
the town or becomes vested in town for any reason, before new certificates are
issued, the original certificate shall be canceled or an assignment given, and
the record shall be changed.
(Ord. 06-27-24A, passed 6-27-2024)
§ 150.03 BURIAL RIGHTS AND OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   All property including sections, blocks, and plot sites within the
cemetery are owned by the town. The town reserves the right of easement over
and across any burial section or plot for grass repairs, installation or
maintenance of water lines, and for the opening and closing of adjacent plots.
   (B)   Purchase of burial right. In accordance with UCA § 8-5-7, the town
shall sell only the right to be buried in the cemetery and all cemetery plots
shall be rights to be buried only. All burial rights purchased shall be issued
by certificate, naming the purchaser of the burial rights thereof, which rights
always remain subject to cemetery management ordinances, resolutions, and
regulations, as such now exist or as may be adopted or amended in the future.
   (C)   Certificate. A cemetery certificate for burial right and burial permit
shall be issued by the town for each plot purchased and will clearly describe
the location of the plot within the cemetery. A certificate of burial right
does not convey to or entitle the holder to any other privilege other than the
right to bury the body of a deceased person and is not a deed conveying title
in fee simple or otherwise to the land or any part thereof. A burial shall not
take place unless a certificate has been issued by the town. The purchaser(s)
of the certificate for burial right has the exclusive right to exercise the
rights associated therewith, whether for themselves or for another.
   (D)   Use of plot. No person, except the purchaser of the burial right of a
plot, shall be buried in that plot, unless the purchaser or legal heirs to
those rights, gives permission for someone else to be buried in that plot. All
burials require a minimum of two business day advance notice, excluding
weekends and holidays. It is the purchaser's obligation to convey accurate
information regarding the timing, needs, and location of a burial.
   (E)   Descent and inheritance of burial rights.
      (1)   Upon the death of the plot purchaser, the plot descends to those
named in the last will and testament of the purchaser or to the heirs
designated by law. The town shall in no way be held responsible for a failure
to properly determine the legal successorship of the said purchaser. The heirs
are entitled to the same use of the plot as the original purchasers and are
bound by the same rules and regulations.
      (2)   An heir may claim burial rights by proving the heir's identity and
right of inheritance. All heirs designated as such by testamentary documents
that appear valid on their face are presumed to have legal rights to claim the
burial rights, and the town shall not be obligated to give notice regarding any
transfer of a burial right to an heir.
   (F)   Reversion of burial right. Burial rights that have been unused or have
no written notices of claim or interest on, for more than 60 years will be
reclaimed by the town. Every effort, practically and legally, will first be
made to find the purchaser or legal heirs before the burial right is reverted,
in accordance with UCA Title 8, Chapter 5.
   (G)   Errors may be corrected. The Town Sexton has the right to correct any
errors made during interment or disinterment, or in the transfer or sale of
grave plots. Errors may be corrected by but not limited to: substituting other
interment rights of equal value and similar location; disinterment/re-interment
of remains to the correct burial plot; or issuing a new, corrected certificate
of burial rights to the owner and voiding the incorrect certificate of burial
rights.
   (H)   Burials per plot. See burial types in §
150.02.
      (1)   Casket. Only one burial shall be allowed per plot space. Combined
parent-infant burials may be authorized by the Town Sexton if, in the Sexton's
judgment, conditions at the plot allow for such combined burial.
      (2)   Urns. No more than two urn burials shall be allowed in plot types
I, II, V and VI. Only one urn can be buried in plot types III, VI, VII and
VIII.
      (3)   Combined casket and urn burials may be authorized by the Town
Sexton if, in the Sexton's judgment, conditions at the plot allow for such
combined burial. No more than two urns may be buried in a plot with a casket.
The urn(s) shall be placed in or above a casket but may not be placed under a
casket.
(Ord. 06-27-24A, passed 6-27-2024)
§ 150.04 PLOT HEADSTONES, MEMORIAL STRUCTURES, MONUMENTS OR MARKERS.
   (A)   The purchasers of burial rights or relatives of deceased people
interred in the cemetery are required to erect and maintain, in a manner
satisfactory to the town, and at the expense of the purchaser or relatives of
the deceased, all headstones, markers or other suitable memorial structures. It
shall be unlawful for any person to erect, place, or cause to be placed any
marker on any plot in the cemetery in violation of these rules and regulations
promulgated by the town regarding the placement, construction, and design of
all such markers.
   (B)   Care of plot markers. All markers within the cemetery are the property
of burial right purchasers, their heirs, or the responsible party who are
responsible for their care and upkeep. The town shall not be responsible for
the repair or replacement of markers, including damage caused by nature or
vandalism, unless the town caused the damage or destruction to the marker.
   (C)   Type and size. A marker and the concrete foundation must fit within
the boundary of the plot or plots. All markers shall have a stone or cement
foundation, level with the ground, extending outward from the perimeter of the
base of the marker. The foundation shall be a minimum of four inches on all
sides, with a minimum thickness of four inches. Apart from holes placed for
vases, the foundation must be a solid structure of concrete or stone. Markers
will be of stone, concrete or a non-corroding durable composition and must be
contained within the cement foundation. Upright markers are allowed in the
cemetery but are subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   For a single grave headstone/marker that will be placed over a
single plot, the foundation shall not exceed 42 inches in length by 25 inches
in depth including a required four-inch mow strip on all sides. The standard
height for a marker is 36 inches above the surrounding or finished grade. Any
marker that exceeds a height of 36 inches above the surrounding or finished
grade must be approved by the Town Sexton and will be charged a setting fee
starting at a minimum of $150.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/208bc5ae7a6a8cf9b84b6d02675fd4fb97910795/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1055.png]
 
      (2)    For a double grave headstone/marker, which will be placed over two
or more plots, the foundation shall not exceed 84 inches in length by 25-inches
in depth including a required four-inch mow strip on all sides. The standard
height for a double marker is 36 inches above the surrounding or finished
grade. Any marker that exceeds a height of 36 inches above the surrounding or
finished grade must be approved by the Town Sexton and will be charged a
setting fee starting at a minimum of $150.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/208bc5ae7a6a8cf9b84b6d02675fd4fb97910795/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1057.png]
 
      (3)   (a)   For a flat/low profile headstone/marker, the depth and length
dimensions for the single or double marker as described above apply. The height
of a flat marker shall not be more than six inches above the surrounding
finished grade.
         (b)   A flat/low profile marker is required for plot types II, III,
VI, and VII. Attempts to place an upright marker on these plot types will be
removed at the cost of the purchaser or his or her heirs.
   (D)   Materials and inscriptions. All markers must be made of real bronze,
glazed granite or other permanent materials. Markers should not be made of
wood, sandstone or any other material which is susceptible to decay. The name
of the deceased person shall be plainly inscribed on all markers.
   (E)   Placement. All markers shall be placed at the head of the plot, which
is located at the west end of the plot site. Exceptions to this shall apply
only where one additional flat marker, supplied by the Veterans Administration,
may be placed at the foot of the plot, which is located at the east end of the
plot site. Permanent plot markers must be placed within 12 months of burial.
   (F)   Setting of markers. It is preferred that a marker be placed by a
licensed and insured monument company. The purchaser or a family member may set
their own marker, but the marker must be constructed and set according to
specifications outlined by the Town Sexton.
   (G)   Removal and replacement of markers. Any marker that impedes the
opening or closing of any plot will be removed and replaced by a licensed and
insured monument company, the expense of which will be paid by the purchaser or
the purchaser's family members as an additional cost to the opening and closing
fee.
   (H)   To arrange the placement of a marker, please complete the town
cemetery monument placement request form and email it to the Town Sexton.
(Ord. 06-27-24A, passed 6-27-2024)
§ 150.05 CEMETERY RULES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Hours and holiday schedule.
      (1)   Cemetery hours shall be from 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
      (2)   Cemetery operating hours for graveside services and/or interments
and disinterment shall be conducted between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Saturday. The cemetery is closed for burials on Sundays and
officially observed holidays.
   (B)   Speed. The speed limit of vehicles at the cemetery is ten miles per
hour.
   (C)   Damage to cemetery property.
      (1)   It is a Class B misdemeanor for any person to tie or attempt to tie
any horse, animal, or motor vehicle to any marker, tree, shrub, fence or
enclosure on the premises of the cemetery for the purpose of injuring, defacing
or attempting the removal of same.
      (2)   It shall be an infraction for any person to injure, deface, break,
destroy, or remove any headstone, tombstone, monument, tree, scrub, or any
other property in the cemetery.
   (D)   Private improvements prohibited; survey and marking of plots. It is
unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any structure, fence, corner post,
coping, or hedge of any kind upon any plot, street, or driveway in the
cemetery, or grade the ground or land thereof, including any structure or other
improvement that would tend to have the effect of restricting access across and
over any plot. The town shall, upon request, furnish the boundary lines of
plots. The town shall prohibit landmarks and any grading that might destroy or
interfere with the general slope of the land or the town's use of the cemetery.
It is unlawful for any person to plant shrubs, trees, lawns, flowers, etc.,
place decorative stones, place markers, or other structures in the cemetery,
including within the borders of plot markers, without approval and direction
from the town.
   (E)   Burials and disinterment.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to bury the body of a deceased person
in the cemetery without properly obtaining a certificate of burial rights from
the Town Sexton.
      (2)   Internment is limited to human remains. Direction for the
internment shall be given to the Sexton. The person giving an order must be
able to give the plot purchaser's name and address, the name of the person
being buried, the name of the funeral director, the date and time of the
funeral, and the number of the burial certificate. Notice to open and close a
plot must allow at least two days for the plot to be opened.
      (3)   It is unlawful to disinter anybody buried in Kanarraville Cemetery,
except under the direction of the Sexton who shall, before disinterment,
require a written permission from both the Municipal Health Officer and the
purchaser of the plot or his or her heirs, which written authorization shall be
filed and preserved in a record kept for such purposes.
   (F)   Vaults required.
      (1)   Casket. It is unlawful for any person to be buried in the cemetery
unless: (a) the casket is placed in a vault made of concrete, steel or their
equivalent and (b) the vault is approved by the Town Sexton. No wood or
fiberglass shall be used in the construction of any part of any vault. Vaults
must be set and provided by a licensed vault/monument company.
      (2)   Urns. It is unlawful for cremains/urn to be buried in the cemetery
unless: (a) the cremains/urn are placed in a polypropylene vault or (b) an
approved equivalent by the Town Sexton. Urn vaults must be provided by a
licensed vault/monument company or funeral director but can be set in the plot
by the family or funeral director.
   (G)   One interment permitted. One interment only shall be allowed in a
casket except a father or mother with an infant child, or two children buried
at the same time. No more than one casket is allowed in a plot. Stacking is not
allowed.
   (H)   Right to maintain. The town reserves the right to enter upon any plot
to perform all work necessary for the maintenance of the cemetery. The town is
responsible for the total maintenance of the cemetery. The town retains the
right to remove any marker which it determines to be unsightly or dangerous.
   (I)   Funeral decorations. All floral arrangements shall be allowed for five
days after the burial. After five days they may be removed by the town. Glass,
porcelain or other breakable decorations or containers shall not be allowed.
Any objects such as wires, sticks, pegs, shepherd hooks, or irons driven into
the ground shall not be permitted.
   (J)   Plot/grave decorations. Artificial flowers, windmills, toys, rocks,
wrought iron, shepherd hooks or other similar ornamentation are only allowed in
the cemetery on the marker. Plot/grave decorations are subject to removal for
the maintenance of the cemetery when they become unsightly, tattered or torn.
The town shall not be responsible or liable for plot/grave decorations,
personal belongings or other items that are removed, discarded, damaged,
stolen, lost or destroyed.
   (K)   Funeral processions. Funeral processions shall proceed to the cemetery
under the direction of the funeral director. Within the cemetery, town
employees may direct traffic for the purpose of maintaining traffic flow and
for the proper parking of vehicles. All vehicles in the cemetery shall be
driven in a careful, quiet, and orderly manner following the designated speed
limit.
   (L)   Children. Children under the age of 18 years shall not be allowed in
cemeteries unless accompanied by their parents or other adults, except for the
purposes of attending authorized funerals or, in the company of adults, placing
flowers on the grave of a deceased relative or friend, performing service, or
any other customary evidence of respect in accordance with their religious
principles.
   (M)   Prohibited activities.
      (1)   Recreational activity. No recreational or athletic activities are
permitted within the cemetery.
      (2)   Noise. All visitors to the cemetery shall maintain a reasonable
level of noise to avoid disturbing other visitors to the cemetery. Loud music,
shouting, yelling, and other loud noises are prohibited.
      (3)   Alcoholic beverages. Alcoholic beverages are not allowed in the
cemetery.
      (4)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking in the cemetery is prohibited.
      (5)   Animals prohibited. No animal shall be allowed in the cemetery
except in the confines of a vehicle, except for a horse drawn funeral
procession. Animals include, without limitation, horses, dogs, cats.
   (N)   Burial outside cemetery. It is unlawful to bury the body of any person
within the town, except at sites designated and approved as cemeteries by the
town.
   (O)   Penalty. Any person who violates any part of the town cemetery rules
and regulations may be found guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 06-27-24A, passed 6-27-2024)
§ 150.06 DUTIES OF THE TOWN.
   (A)   Maintenance. The town shall have the responsibility to reasonably
maintain the cemetery, other than plot markers, and provide the basic services
necessary for the operation of the cemetery, including water, electricity,
equipment and labor.
      (1)   Remove floral pieces or displays left on any plot as deemed
necessary to the appearance of the cemetery but not removed five days before.
      (2)   Keep the streets, alleys, and walkways free and unobstructed.
   (B)   Records. The town and Town Sexton shall coordinate to maintain all
records of plot sales, burials, and other records related to the administration
of the cemetery, in accordance with all town and state codes.
   (C)   Burials. The town maintenance staff shall provide supervision for
every interment. No other person other than town-authorized personnel shall
excavate a plot.
(Ord. 06-27-24A, passed 6-27-2024)
§ 150.07 DUTIES OF THE SEXTON.
   (A)   Recommend to the governing body new rules and regulations at the
cemetery.
   (B)   Subdivide the cemetery into sections and plots.
   (C)   Maintain a record of the location of plots and prevent any lot from
being used beyond its capacity.
   (D)   Keep a plat of the cemetery.
   (E)   Furnish the true lines of any plots according to official survey;
shall prevent and prohibit any markings of the same except by official
landmarks; and shall prevent and prohibit any grading thereof that might
destroy or interfere with the general slope of the land.
   (F)   Burials. After a burial permit has been issued, the Town Sexton shall
prepare and mark a plot for burial.
   (G)   Marker. The Town Sexton shall prepare and mark a plot for placement of
a marker.
(Ord. 06-27-24A, passed 6-27-2024)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Short title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Authority
   
151.004   Jurisdiction
   
151.005   Interpretation and conflict of laws
   
151.006   Definitions
   
151.007   Subdivision Review Committee
   
151.008   Subdivision appeals
Subdivision Application Requirements
   
151.020   Conformity
   
151.021   Process and requirements
   
151.022   Exceptions to specific application requirements
   
151.023   Pre-application meeting/concept meeting
   
151.024   Notice to affected entities
Review and Approval
   
151.035   Review
   
151.036   Approval
   
151.037   Post-approval actions
Subdivision Amendments
   
151.050   Amendments and lot line adjustments
   
151.051   Lot line adjustments
Subdivision Improvements
   
151.065   Required improvements
   
151.066   Completion of improvements
   
151.067   Improvement guarantees, completion assurances, and warranties
Subdivision Design Standards
   
151.080   General provisions
   
151.081   Street design
   
151.082   Lots
   
151.083   Public use and service areas
   
151.084   Access to lots
 
   
151.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Kanarraville Subdivision
Ordinance and may be identified within this chapter as the "chapter," or "this
chapter".
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is established to provide for the orderly division of land
within the Town of Kanarraville, Iron County, Utah to secure the provision of
necessary private and public infrastructure and services, and to promote the
health, safety, and welfare of residents of the town.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.003 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted and authorized under the provisions of UCA Title 10,
Chapter 9, et. seq., as amended. This chapter, upon its adoption by the Town
Council, repeals any prior subdivision ordinance that may have been adopted in
whole or in part.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.004 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall govern and apply to the subdivision, platting, and
recording of all lands lying within the incorporated area of the town.
   (B)   No person shall subdivide any land for development purposes except in
full compliance with this chapter, the town zoning ordinance, and other
applicable local, state, and federal laws. Any plat of a subdivision, filed or
recorded without the approvals required by this chapter, is void for the
purposes of development, or the issuance of a building permit, as required by
UCA § 10-9-811 et seq., as amended.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued by the town for any lot or parcel
of land, located wholly or in part within the limits of the town, unless such
lot or parcel was legally created or was a legal lot of record existing prior
to the adoption date of this chapter.
   (D)   Any owner, or agent of the owner, of any land located in a
subdivision, as defined herein, who transfers or sells any land located within
the subdivision before the subdivision has been approved and recorded,
consistent with the requirements of this chapter, is in violation of this
chapter and UCA § 109-811 et seq., and other applicable local, state, and
federal laws for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.
   (E)   A description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other documents used in the process of selling or transferring property for
development purposes does not exempt the transaction from a violation of this
chapter nor the penalties or remedies provided by this chapter and other local,
state, and federal laws.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.005 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   Where any provisions in this chapter conflict with state law, state law
shall prevail. Where any provision in this chapter conflicts with other
ordinances enacted by the town, the provisions in this chapter shall prevail
unless the town intended such conflicting ordinances not in this chapter to
amend this chapter.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   AFFECTED ENTITIES. An entity, county, municipality, local district, or
special service district that provides a service to an owner of record of the
portion of the plat that is being vacated or amended.
   BUILDING PERMIT. Written permit issued by the town (authorized by the
Subdivision Review Committee) and their designated building official for the
construction, repair, alteration, or addition to a structure.
   COMPLETION ASSURANCE. A surety bond, or other equivalent security, required
by the town to guarantee the proper completion of landscaping or an
infrastructure improvement required as a condition precedent to recording a
subdivision plat.
   COUNTY. The unincorporated area of Iron County or the political subdivision
of the State of Utah.
   APPLICANT. Can also be referred to as a developer, subdivider, or land owner
within this chapter. An APPLICANT(S) is the person(s) who applies with the town
to divide a parcel of land within town boundaries.
   FACILITY OWNER. An individual, entity, mutual water company, or
unincorporated organization:
      (1)   Operating a water conveyance facility;
      (2)   Owning any interest in a water conveyance facility; or
      (3)   Having a property interest in real property based on the presence
of the water conveyance facility located and operating on the real property.
   GAS CORPORATION. The same meaning as defined in UCA § 54-2-1, as amended.
   IMPROVEMENT PLAN. The civil engineering plan to complete permanent
infrastructure and municipality-controlled-utilities in the subdivision that is
essential for public health and safety, that is required for human occupation,
or that is required by applicable law and that an applicant must install in
accordance with public installation and inspection specifications for public
improvements and as a condition of recording a subdivision plat.
   INTERSTATE PIPELINE COMPANY. A person or entity engaged in natural gas
transportation that is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission under the Natural Gas 15 USC §§ 717 et seq.
   KANARRAVILLE. The incorporated area within the Town of Kanarraville, Iron
County, Utah.
   KANARRAVILLE TOWN or TOWN LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Kanarraville Town Council.
   LAND USE APPLICATION. The application required by the town and submitted by
a land use applicant to obtain a land use approval; this does not mean an
application to enact, amend, or repeal a land use regulation.
   LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Southwest Utah Public Health Department.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. The relocation of the property boundary line between
two adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of describing the boundaries of land by direction
(bounds) and distances (metes) from a known point of reference.
   MUNICIPALITY. An incorporated city or town.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The same meaning as provided in UCA § 72-5-401, as amended.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, organization, association,
trust, governmental agency, or any other legal entity.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Kanarraville Town Planning Commission.
   PLAT. An instrument for subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map
or other graphic representation of land that a licensed professional land
surveyor makes and prepares in accordance with UCA §§ 10-9a-603 or 57-8-13.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map of all or a portion of subdivision that is presented to
the SRC for recording.
   PUBLIC LANDSCAPING IMPROVEMENT. Landscaping that an applicant is required to
install to comply with published installation and inspection specifications for
public improvements that:
      (1)   Will be dedicated to and maintained by the town; or
      (2)   Are associated with and proximate to trail improvements that
connect to planned or existing public infrastructure.
   RECORD OF SURVEY MAP. A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
UCA § 17-23-17.
   REVIEW CYCLE. The occurrence of:
      (1)   The applicant's submittal of a complete subdivision land use
application;
      (2)   The town's review of that subdivision land use application;
      (3)   The town's response to that subdivision land use application; and
      (4)   The applicant's reply to the town's response that addresses each of
the town's required modifications or requests for additional information.
   SPECIAL DISTRICT. All entities established under the authority of UCA Title
17A, and any other governmental or quasi-governmental entity that is not a
county, municipality, school, or unit of the state.
   STATE ENGINEER'S INVENTORY OF CANALS. The state engineer's inventory of
water conveyance systems established in UCA § 73-5-7.
   STREET. A public rights-of-way, including highways, avenues, boulevards,
parkways, roads, lanes, walks, alleys, viaducts, subways, tunnels, bridges,
public easements, and other ways.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land which is divided, subdivided or proposed to be divided
into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other division of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or
development either on the installment plan or upon all other plans, terms and
conditions.
      (1)   SUBDIVISION includes:
         (a)   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument, regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a
parcel or lot; and
         (b)   Except as provided below, divisions of land for residential and
non- residential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial,
agricultural, and industrial purposes.
      (2)   SUBDIVISION does not include:
         (a)   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land
use ordinance;
         (b)   A boundary line agreement recorded with the Office of the County
Recorder between owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in
accordance with UCA § 10-9a-524 if no new parcel is created;
         (c)   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record revising
the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal description
encompassing all such parcels or joining a lot to parcel;
         (d)   A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with UCA §§ 10-
9a-524 and 10-9a-608 if no new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from
the adjustment and the adjustment will not violate any applicable land use
ordinance;
         (e)   A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the
deed or other instrument states in writing that the division is in anticipation
of future land use approvals on the parcel or parcels does not confer any land
use approvals, and has not been approved by the SRC;
         (f)   A parcel boundary adjustment;
         (g)   A lot line adjustment;
         (h)   A joining of one or more lots to a parcel;
         (i)   A road, street, or highway dedication plat;
         (j)   A deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
         (k)   Any other division of land authorized by law.
   SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE REVIEW. A review by the town to verify that the
subdivision land use application meets the criteria of the town's subdivision
ordinances.
   SUBDIVISION PLAN REVIEW. A review of the applicant's subdivision improvement
plans and other aspects of the subdivision land use application to verify that
the application complies with town ordinances and applicable standards and
specifications.
   SUBDIVISION REVIEW COMMITTEE (SRC). A committee appointed by the Town Board,
including a Planning Commission representative, a Town Board representative,
and the Town Clerk.
   TOWN CLERK. The administrative officer of the town designated to administer
the zoning ordinance and subdivision ordinance of the town.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The legislative body of the incorporated town of Kanarraville,
Iron County, Utah.
   UNDERGROUND FACILITY. Personal property that is buried or placed below
ground level for use in the storage or conveyance of any of the following:
      (1)   Water;
      (2)   Communications;
      (3)   Electric power;
      (4)   Internet;
      (5)   Oil;
      (6)   Gas;
      (7)   Steam;
      (8)   Slurry; or
      (9)   Other dangerous materials or products.
   UNINCORPORATED. The area outside of the incorporated boundaries of cities
and towns.
   WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITY. A ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other
watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or storm water drainage
and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other
watercourse. WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITY does not mean a ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse used to convey water used for culinary or
industrial water, or any federal water project facility.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.007 SUBDIVISION REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The land use authority for applications under this chapter is the
Subdivision Review Committee (SRC). For purposes of subdivision applications,
the SRC shall be responsible for the following, but may delegate any
responsibility to town staff.
      (1)   Rendering land use decisions related to subdivision application.
      (2)   Reviewing applications in an impartial manner and according to the
standards and deadlines described in this chapter.
      (3)   Providing feedback to applicants on their subdivision applications.
      (4)   Scheduling and holding a pre-application meeting with potential
applicants.
      (5)   Keeping application forms and related informational material up to
date and publicly accessible and distributing such forms and materials to
potential applicants. This task is delegated to town staff by default.
      (6)   Providing notice to entities and parties as required by this
section. This task is delegated to town staff by default.
      (7)   Ensuring that documents are properly recorded with the county after
final approval as required by this section. This task is delegated to town
staff by default.
   (B)   The SRC shall be organized as follows:
      (1)   Membership shall include a Planning Commission representative; a
Town Board representative; and the Town Clerk.
      (2)   The SRC may meet informally on an as-needed basis and shall make
all application approvals through unanimous vote.
      (3)   The SRC is required to report any new subdivisions, each month, to
both the Town Council and Planning Commission.
   (C)   As subdivision application decisions are administrative, not
legislative, the SRC is authorized to make any land use decision described by
this chapter without Town Council approval.
   (D)   The Town Council shall not require the SRC to approve or deny any
subdivision application under this chapter.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.008 SUBDIVISION APPEALS.
   (A)   The Appeal Authority (through the SRC) relating to this chapter (e.g.,
approval or denial of a subdivision application), shall hear all town
decisions, except where otherwise noted.
   (B)   The Appeal Authority shall hear appeals on final decisions made by the
SRC and shall hear complaints about the conduct of the SRC in administering the
provisions of this chapter according to the process described in §§
152.050 through
152.062.
   (C)   A party appealing or complaining of a SRC's decision under this
chapter must exhaust its remedies under this section (by appealing or
complaining to the Appeal Authority) before bringing an action against the town
in a court of law.
   (D)   In addition to the requirements in §§
152.050 through
152.062, a party desiring to appeal or complain of a SRC decision shall submit
to the Appeal Authority the following in writing:
      (1)   A brief explanation of the relief the party is seeking, the reason
the party submitted its application or petition, the SRC's decision and
treatment of the application or petition, and why the applicant believes the
SRC misapplied the provisions of this chapter or abused the discretion given it
by this chapter.
      (2)   The most recent version of the application or petition the party
submitted.
      (3)   Any supplemental documentation or information that the Appeal
Authority requests.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
**** SUBDIVISION APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 151.020 CONFORMITY.
   The town shall not approve, nor shall a party record, any plat or other
creating instrument for a new subdivision unless the party has properly applied
under this chapter and received approval from the SRC.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.021 PROCESS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   To be considered complete, a subdivision application must include at
least the following elements:
      (1)   An approved land use application that describes how the property
will be used after it is subdivided.
         (a)   If the intended use is permitted by right under town ordinances,
the land use application must include citations to the specific ordinance(s)
that the applicant believes authorized the intended use.
         (b)   If the intended use requires a conditional use permit or is
otherwise conditioned on town approval, the land use application must include
an approved, town-issued permit authorizing the intended use. Should an
applicant seek a use permit concurrently with a related subdivision
application, the subdivision application shall be considered incomplete until
the use permit is issued.
         (c)   If the intended use is prohibited under town ordinances and
requires a variance, the land use application must include an approved, town-
issued variance authorizing the intended use. Should an applicant seek a
variance concurrently with a related subdivision application, the subdivision
application shall be considered incomplete until the variance is issued.
      (2)   A plat, unless exempted under §
151.022. The plat must be drawn to scale, in detail, and in accordance with
generally accepted surveying standards and the acceptable filing standards of
the County Recorder's Office. The plat must include the following:
         (a)   The proposed subdivision name, which must be distinct from any
subdivision name on a plat recorded in the County Recorder's office.
         (b)   The boundaries, course, and dimensions of all proposed parcels.
         (c)   The lot or unit reference; block or building reference; street
or site address; street name or coordinate address; acreage or square footage
for all parcels, units, or lots; and length and width of the blocks and lots
intended for sale.
         (d)   Every existing right-of-way and recorded easement located within
the plat for underground, water, and utility facilities.
         (e)   Any known and unrecorded water conveyance facility located,
entirely or partially, within the plat.
         (f)   Whether any parcel is intended to be used as a street or for any
other public use.
         (g)   Whether any parcel is reserved or proposed for dedication for a
public purpose.
      (3)   Reports and studies, including:
         (a)   A traffic study, if one is required by an applicable UDOT access
management plan or requested by the SRC.
         (b)   1.    Septic system, approved by engineer or qualified person,
percolation test results and soil exploration results for all proposed
subdivisions, or subdivision phases, where onsite wastewater disposal systems
are proposed.
            2.   Approval for the proposed sewage treatment method shall be
obtained from the Southwest Utah Public Health Department or the Utah
Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable.
         (c)   When the SRC deems it necessary, the applicant may be required
to provide other information, conduct studies, and provide evidence indicating
the suitability of the area for the proposed subdivision, including, but not
limited to, groundwater protection, plant cover maintenance, geologic or flood
erosion control, wildlife habitat, flood plain studies, and any other physical,
public, or private services, or environmental matters necessary to identify the
suitability of the area for the proposed subdivision.
         (d)   The applicant shall incorporate all findings, recommendations,
and mitigation measures identified in any required studies into the subdivision
design, improvement plans, and final plat. The SRC may deny an application that
fails to adequately address or incorporate such findings and recommendations.
      (4)   (a)   An improvement plan, created in accordance with applicable
portions of §§
151.065 through
151.067, for all public improvements proposed by the applicant or required by
town ordinance.
         (b)   In addition to the requirements of §§
151.065 through
151.067, the improvement plan must contain an engineer's estimate of the cost
of completing the required improvements.
      (5)   Certification, including:
         (a)   An affidavit from the applicant certifying that the submitted
information is true and accurate.
         (b)   The signature of each owner of record of land described on the
plat, signifying their consent to the subdivision application and their intent
to dedicate portions of the plat to the public as described in the application.
         (c)   Certification that the surveyor who prepared the plat:
            1.   Holds a license in accordance with UCA § 58-22; and
            2.   Either:
               a.   Has completed a survey of the property described on the
plat in accordance with state requirements and has verified all measurements;
or
               b.   Has a record of survey map of the existing property
boundaries shown on the plat and verified the locations of the boundaries; and
            3.   Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
         (d)   A title report or title insurance policy for the land to be
subdivided verifying property ownership.
         (e)   A tax clearance certificate from the state indicating that all
taxes, interest, and penalties owing on the land have been paid.
         (f)   Owner's certificate of dedication.
         (g)   Proof of approval from the following:
            1.   a.   The Town Water Office;
               b.   Any property annexed into the town needs to have proof of
water and a 1934 provable water right before an approval will be granted.
            2.   The Town Irrigation Water Company;
            3.   Southwest Utah Public Health Department;
            4.   The Town Fire Chief;
            5.   Local utility companies (telephone, gas, power and internet;
and
            6.   Local public safety representative.
      (6)   Binding dedication documents, including:
         (a)   As applicable, formal, irrevocable offers for dedication to the
public of streets, town uses, utilities, parks, easements, or other spaces.
            1.   The Town Council is responsible for the establishment and
adjustment of park fees. These fees are to be used for the procurement,
development, and maintenance of parks in the community. One-half of the fees
are to be collected at the time of plat and one-half at the time of issuance of
a building permit. The Town Council may accept property as described in this
chapter in lieu of payment of fees for park and open space development.
            2.   A developer or a landowner may propose a park incorporated
into his development plan for purposes of donation or gifting, or for future
sale to the town, it will be the option of the Town Council to determine the
need and feasibility for such a design. When a park or recreational facility
has been designated in the town's general plan and is to be located in whole or
in part within the proposed subdivision to serve the immediate and future needs
of the residents of the neighborhood within which the subdivision is located,
the subdivider or developer may donate, gift, or sell land for a local park
sufficient in size and topography to serve the residents of the neighborhood
within which the subdivision is located. Donated, gifted, or sold land for
parks, will not be in the computation of the lots allowable in their
development. Such donations, gifts, or procurements are at the option and
discretion of the Town Council and they may place conditions on the acceptance
of such property. It is the intent of this section to encourage incentives and
cooperation with developers in the implementation of the town's general plan as
it relates to parks and recreation properties. It will be the responsibility of
the Town Council to establish criteria for park development.
      (7)   Copies, including:
         (a)   A full set of 24 inch by 36 inch plans.
         (b)   Digital copies of all documents.
         (c)   A PDF document of the complete application (including the plat
and all other plans and supporting documents required by this section).
         (d)   Three 11 inch by 17 inch printed copies of the complete
application, delivered to the town office, for review.
         (e)   1.   A copy of the plat drawn on Mylar for signing and
recording. The applicant may wait to produce this recording-form copy until the
SRC has completed two review cycles, but in such case, the SRC need not approve
the application until this copy has been produced and reviewed.
            2.   Including six paper copies of the final plat.
         (f)   If any part of a subdivision application goes to the appeal
authority, the applicant needs to provide enough 11 inch by 17 inch copies for
all persons/members involved.
      (8)   Payment of any application-processing fees required by the town. In
addition to any fees listed on the town's fee schedule, the applicant shall be
liable for any reasonable costs the town incurs in obtaining engineering,
legal, or consulting review of the application.
   (B)   The SRC (or town staff, as delegated) shall produce, maintain, and
make available to the public a list of the specific items that comprise
complete subdivision applications and a breakdown of any fees due upon
submission or approval of the applications.
   (C)   The SRC may require, and the applicant shall provide, additional
information beyond the requirements of this section or those published by the
town relating to an applicant's plans to ensure compliance with town ordinances
and approved standards and specifications for construction of public
improvements and to protect the health and safety of town residents.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the SRC may, in its sole
discretion, waive any of the specific requirements found in this section on a
case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.022 EXCEPTIONS TO SPECIFIC APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Agricultural land.
      (1)   Applications to subdivide agricultural land are exempt from the
plat requirements (but not the other application requirements) of §
151.021(A) if the resulting parcels:
         (a)   Qualify as land in agricultural use under UCA § 59-2-502;
         (b)   Meet the minimum size requirement of applicable town land use
ordinances; and
         (c)   Are not used and will not be used for any non-agricultural
purpose.
      (2)   For subdivision applications for which this exception applies, an
applicant may submit to the town-in place of a plat-a record of survey map that
illustrates the boundaries of the parcels.
      (3)   If the town approves a subdivision application based on a record of
survey map, the applicant shall record the map, signed by the town, with the
County Recorder's Office. This shall be done in the same manner as is done for
a plat under §§
151.035 through
151.037.
      (4)   If a parcel resulting from a subdivision under this exception ever
ceases to be used for agriculture, the subdivision shall become invalid. The
town may, in its discretion, impose the penalty in §
151.999 and/or require a subdivision amendment before issuing a building
permit.
   (B)   Development agreements.
      (1)   Subdivisions platted in a valid development agreement are exempt
from the application and review and approval requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Clauses in a valid development agreement with the town supersede
all conflicting requirements in this chapter, except where a clause in the
development agreement poses a substantial danger to the health and safety of
town residents.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.023 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING/CONCEPT MEETING.
   A party intending to submit a subdivision application under this subchapter
may request a pre-application meeting with the SRC or other town staff for the
purpose of reviewing any element of the party's proposed subdivision
application. The proposed application need not be complete for the purpose of
this meeting and may-if the party desires-be limited to a concept plan.
   (A)   If a party requests a pre-application meeting, the town shall schedule
the meeting within 15 business days after the request. The meeting shall be
scheduled at the earliest convenient opportunity, and, at the option of the
party requesting the meeting, shall occur within 20 business days after
scheduling.
   (B)   The SRC or delegated town staff shall conduct the meeting, provide
feedback on materials as requested by the party, and shall provide or have
available on the town website the following at the time of the meeting:
      (1)   Copies of applicable land use regulations;
      (2)   A complete list of standards required for the project; and
      (3)   Relevant application checklists.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.024 NOTICE TO AFFECTED ENTITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Within 15 calendar days after receiving a complete subdivision
application under this subchapter, town staff shall provide written notice of
the proposed subdivision to the facility owner of any known water conveyance
facility located, entirely or partially, within 100 feet of the subdivision
plat.
      (2)   To determine whether any water conveyance facility is located
within 100 feet of a proposed subdivision, town staff shall review information:
         (a)   From the facility owner under UCA § 10-9a-211, using mapping-
grade global positioning satellite units or digitized data from the most recent
aerial photo available to the facility owner;
         (b)   From the state engineer's inventory of canals; or
         (c)   From a licensed surveyor who has consulted with a representative
of an existing water conveyance facility that services an area near the land
the application concerns.
   (B)   (1)   To give water conveyance facilities time to provide feedback on
subdivision applications, the SRC shall not approve a subdivision application
under this chapter sooner than 20 calendar days after the applicant submits a
complete application. This waiting period does not apply to revised
applications the applicant may submit during the application review process.
      (2)   A water conveyance facility owner's failure to provide comments to
the SRC about a subdivision application does not affect or impair the SRC's
authority to approve the subdivision application.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
**** REVIEW AND APPROVAL ****
§ 151.035 REVIEW.
   (A)   The SRC shall review all subdivision applications in accordance with
the requirements of this subchapter before approving or denying those
applications.
   (B)   The review process begins when an applicant submits a complete
application.
      (1)   The SRC shall not review an incomplete subdivision application,
except to determine whether the application is complete.
      (2)   If the SRC determines that an application is incomplete, it shall
notify the applicant of the incompleteness, highlighting any insufficiencies
and explaining that the application will not be reviewed until it is complete.
   (C)   After the applicant submits a complete application, the SRC shall
review and provide feedback to the applicant in a series of "review cycles."
This process shall take no longer than 120 business days total.
      (1)   A review cycle consists of the following phases:
         (a)   Phase #1: The applicant submits a complete application (or, if
after the first cycle, submits a revised version of the complete application).
         (b)   Phase #2: The SRC reviews the application in detail and assesses
whether the application conforms to local ordinances.
         (c)   Phase #3: The SRC responds to the applicant, citing any missing
requirements or areas of non-compliance, and provides a detailed list of
necessary revisions to the applicant. For any required modification or addition
to the application or request for more information, the SRC shall be specific
and
include citations to ordinances, standards, or specifications that require the
modification or addition and shall provide the applicant with an index of all
requested modifications or additions.
         (d)   Phase #4: The applicant revises the application, addressing each
comment or requirement the SRC made. The applicant must submit both revised
plans and a written explanation in response to the town's review comments,
identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions and reasons for declining
to make revisions, if any. This written explanation must be comprehensive and
specific, including citations to applicable standards and ordinances and an
index of requested revisions or additions for each required correction. If the
applicant fails to respond to a comment made by the SRC in its review, the
review cycle is not complete and will remain open until the applicant addresses
all comments.
 
TABLE 151.035
REVIEW CYCLES, HEARINGS, AND TIMELINES BY SUBDIVISION USE TYPE
Use Types Max Review Phases Town Turnaround Deadline* Applicant Turnaround
                                                      Deadline*
All uses  4                 30 business days          180 business days
*Describes the total time (per review cycle) the town may take to complete
both Phase #2 and Phase #3.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/208bc5ae7a6a8cf9b84b6d02675fd4fb97910795/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1115.png]
 
   (D)   The SRC (and other town representatives or agents) shall adhere to the
maximum number of review cycles and the review deadlines described in
Table 151.035, except as described below. If no further revisions are needed,
the SRC may end the review process early and approve or deny the application.
      (1)   If the applicant makes a material change to the application not
requested by the town at any point in the review process, the SRC may restart
the review process, but only with respect to the portion of the application
that the material change substantively affects.
      (2)   If an applicant takes longer than 40 business days to submit a
revised subdivision improvement plan responding to the town's requests for
modifications and additions (in Phases #1 and #4), the town shall have an
additional 20 business days to review and respond to the revised application
(Phases #2 and #3 of the next review cycle or issuing an approval decision).
      (3)   If an applicant takes longer than 180 calendar days to submit a
revised application and respond to the town's requests for modifications and
additions (Phases #1-4), the application shall, at the option of the SRC,
expire. If an application expires, the applicant must restart the subdivision
application process.
   (E)   During the fourth or final review, the SRC may, in its discretion,
submit the application to the Town Attorney and Town Engineer for their
technical review, subject to the town turnaround date in
Table 151.035. As a result of this review, the SRC may request additional
changes be made to the application.
   (F)   (1)   Following the Town Attorney and Town Engineer's technical
review, the SRC shall approve or deny the application within 20 business days.
      (2)   If the SRC has not approved or denied the application within 20
business days after the allotted review cycles are complete, the applicant may
request a decision. After such a request, the town shall, within ten business
days:
         (a)   For a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans,
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with UCA § 10-9a-508(5)(d) to review and
approve or deny the revised set of plans; or
         (b)   For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review,
advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of
the right to appeal the determination to the designated appeal authority.
   (G)   After the SRC provides comments in the fourth or final review cycle,
the town shall not require further modifications or corrections to the
application unless those modifications or corrections are necessary to protect
public health and safety or to enforce state or federal law or unless the
review cycle reset due to the applicant making a material change that the SRC
did not request.
      (1)   With the exception of modifications or corrections that are needed
to protect public health and safety, that are needed to enforce state or
federal law, or that arise from the review cycle being reset, the municipality
waives non-compliant subdivision-related requirements that the SRC does not
identify during the review process.
      (2)   The applicant shall make reasonable changes, unless prohibited
otherwise by a contract or deed, to the subdivision application to accommodate
the water conveyance facility to the extent required by UCA § 73-1-15.5. Note
that the SRC has the authority to restart the process if the changes are
considered significant by the town.
   (H)   Other chapters of this title notwithstanding, the SRC shall approve or
deny a subdivision application under this section after reviewing a complete
subdivision application as described in this section. This singular application
and review process includes the combined elements of traditional "preliminary"
and "final" applications, as those terms are used in UCA § 10-9a-604.2. For
purposes of applying UCA §§ 10-91-604.1(3)(a) and 10-91-604.1(9)(b), this
chapter describes a "preliminary" review and approval, with "final" approval
happening automatically when the plat is recorded.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.036 APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   The SRC shall approve any complete subdivision applications made
under this subchapter that comply with applicable municipal ordinances.
      (2)   If an application is denied, there will be a 180-day waiting period
before that application can be resubmitted for review.
   (B)   A subdivision application is approved when the SRC certifies the
approved plat, either by signing the plat directly or by attaching a signed
certification to the plat.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.037 POST-APPROVAL ACTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The applicant shall record the approved subdivision plat with
the County Recorder's Office within 365 calendar days after the SRC approves
the subdivision application, provided that the applicant has completed any
improvements or posted any performance guarantee required by town ordinances or
described in the approved improvement plan. The applicant shall not record the
approved subdivision plat until such improvements are completed or guaranteed
in compliance with town ordinances and the approved improvement plan.
      (2)   An approved plat not properly recorded within the timeline
specified in this provision is void unless the SRC approves an extension.
   (B)   Town staff shall work with the County Recorder's Office to submit to
the Utah Geospatial Resource Center (so the subdivision can be included in the
911 database), within 30 calendar days after the application is approved,
either:
      (1)   An electronic copy of the approved plat; or
      (2)   Preliminary geospatial data that depict any new streets and situs
addresses proposed for construction within the bounds of the approved plat.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
**** SUBDIVISION AMENDMENTS ****
§ 151.050 AMENDMENTS AND LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may vacate a subdivision or a portion of a
subdivision by enacting an ordinance to that effect that describes the
subdivision or the portion being vacated and recording that ordinance in the
County Recorder's Office.
   (B)   A property owner, or agent of a property owner, may correct minor
typographical or clerical errors in a document of record by filing with the
county an affidavit or other appropriate instrument. This provision does not
apply to changing the name of the subdivision, which requires a material
amendment described in the following provisions.
   (C)   A fee owner of land in a platted subdivision may request a material
subdivision amendment by filing a written petition with the SRC. This petition
must meet all the requirements for a subdivision application specified in §
151.021(A) with the following changes:
      (1)   The plat (or the record of survey map, if applicable) should:
         (a)   Depict only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to
be amended;
         (b)   Include a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the
original plat, that is distinct from any subdivision name on a plat recorded in
the County Recorder's Office;
         (c)   Describe the differences between the amended plat and the
original plat;
         (d)   Include references to the original plat; and
         (e)   Meet all the other plat requirements specified in §
151.021(A).
      (2)   (a)   The petition must additionally include the name and address
of each property owner affected by the petition and the signature of each of
those property owners who consent to the petition.
         (b)   The petitioner must include with the petition envelopes
addresses of each property in the subdivision.
      (3)   Upon receipt of an amendment petition, the Town Council (or town
staff, as delegated) shall provide notice of the petition to:
         (a)   Each utility provider that services a parcel of the subdivision.
The town shall not approve an amendment petition until at least ten calendar
days after noticing these utility providers. The town may notify the utility
providers in any effective manner (email, mail, etc.).
         (b)   Each property owner in the subdivision. The town shall notify
these property owners by mail.
      (4)   The Town Council shall hold a public hearing before approving an
amendment petition and within 45 calendar days after the day on which the
petition is submitted if:
         (a)   A property owner objects in writing to the amendment within ten
days of the town notifying the property owner by mail, or
         (b)   Not every property owner in the subdivision has signed the
revised plat.
      (5)   Notwithstanding division (C)(4), the Town Council need not hold a
public hearing if notice has been given to adjoining property owners in
accordance with any applicable local ordinance and the petition seeks to:
         (a)   Join two or more of the petitioner's contiguous lots;
         (b)   Subdivide one or more of the petitioner's lots;
         (c)   Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an
adjoining parcel if the fee owners of each of the adjoining properties join in
the petition, regardless of whether the properties are located in the same
subdivision;
         (d)   On a lot owned by the petitioner, adjust an internal lot
restriction imposed by the local political subdivision; or
         (e)   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing
boundaries or other attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not
owned by the petitioner or designated as a common area.
      (6)   If the Town Council approves the amendment petition, the Town
Council shall sign the amended plat in the manner described in §
151.037, and the petitioner shall record the plat, subject to the completion or
guarantee of any improvements, as described in §
151.037.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.051 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The fee owners of two parcels may petition to adjust the lot line
separating the parcels without a subdivision amendment. Such a petition shall
include:
      (1)   A record of survey map and a metes-and-bounds description showing
the adjustment.
      (2)   An explanation of the reason for the adjustment.
      (3)   Signatures from all the parcel owners involved in the adjustment.
      (4)   Any other information the Town Council requests.
   (B)   The Town Council shall approve the petition if the adjustment:
      (1)   Will not result in a violation of a land use ordinance;
      (2)   Will not result in adverse development conditions;
      (3)   Will not create a new dwelling lot or housing unit;
      (4)   Is consented to by all adjoining property owners; and
      (5)   Does not result in a remnant piece of land that did not exist
previously.
   (C)   If the adjustment is approved, the Town Council shall sign the record
of survey map and accompanying metes-and-bounds description, and the petitioner
shall record the document in the County Recorder's Office.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
**** SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS ****
§ 151.065 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following improvements are required for all subdivisions, except those
that qualify under the agricultural land exemption of §
151.022(A):
   (A)   Permanent markers. All subdivision boundary corners, all points
tangent, and street intersections shall be marked with metal monuments approved
by the Town Engineer.
   (B)   Streets. All streets shall be graded, graveled, and hard surfaced with
eight inches road base and two and a half inches asphalt and compacted to 95%
in accordance with the town specifications and ordinances. Traffic regulation,
safety, and street identification signs shall be erected.
   (C)   Sidewalks. In subdivisions in which one or more lots have frontage,
along a public street, sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of all
streets (except on streets bounding the subdivision, sidewalks shall be
required only on the subdivision side); however, required sidewalks may be
waived by the Town Council upon recommendation of the SRC.
   (D)   Water lines and fire hydrants. In all subdivisions, a culinary water
supply, water lines, and fire hydrants shall be required as follows:
      (1)   The subdivider shall have prior approval for connections to the
town system or other source and shall make such water available to each lot
within the subdivided area, sizes of water mains shall be subject to the
approval of the Town Board and Water Master and shall be based upon fire
protection requirements, but in no case shall they have a diameter of less than
eight inches. Workmanship and details of construction shall be in accordance
with town codes, ordinances, specifications and requirements, and with the Utah
Department of Environmental Quality and the Southwest Utah Public Health
Department, who shall be the town's experts in evaluating the proposed culinary
water system.
      (2)   Fire hydrants shall be installed at intervals within the
subdivision in such a manner that no lot will be a distance greater than 500
feet from the closest hydrant, measured along the streets.
   (E)   Gas, electricity, telephone services, internet, and any other utility.
The sub-divider shall make natural gas, electricity, internet, telephone
services, and any other utility available to each lot in the subdivision area.
These improvements shall be completed before the streets are hard-surfaced.
Installation shall be approved by the utility company providing the service and
the Town Council.
   (F)   Any other infrastructure (or infrastructure improvement) that is
reasonably necessary to meet the needs of the proposed development. The SRC may
require an analysis to be completed and provided to determine if adequate
public facilities and services are available to serve the proposed development
and if such development will change the existing levels of service or will
create a demand for services that exceeds acceptable service levels. Public
facilities that may be required by the SRC to be included in a public
facilities analysis include but are not limited to, road and street facilities
and capacities, intersection and bridge capacities, culinary water facilities,
storm drainage facilities, fire protection and suppression facilities, park and
recreational facilities, culinary water pressure, fire and emergency services
response times, police protection services, and other required public
facilities and services. The SRC may deny or modify any proposed development
activity if the demand for public facilities and services exceeds accepted or
adopted levels of service, or requires an applicant for approval, license, or
permit to provide the required facilities and services concurrent with the
demand created by the development activity, consistent with all applicable
legal authorities.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.066 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Before a subdivision plat may be recorded, and before a building
permit may be issued, all improvements required by this chapter or other town
ordinances shall be either:
      (1)   Completed, inspected, and accepted by the town; or
      (2)   Guaranteed according to §
151.067.
   (B)   The decision whether to guarantee an improvement or to complete it
before recording and obtaining a building permit rests solely with the
applicant.
   (C)   All improvements are subject to town inspection, before such
improvements may be accepted by the town or considered complete. The SRC shall
be responsible for conducting such inspections.
   (D)   All public improvements are subject to the warranty described in §
151.067.
   (E)   All improvements are subject to town inspection, before such
improvements may be accepted by the town or considered complete. The SRC shall
be responsible for conducting such inspections. Improvements shall be accepted
only if they:
      (1)   Conform to applicable town ordinances (notably this subchapter);
      (2)   Are constructed according to sound engineering practices and
industry standards;
      (3)   Use materials and workmanship of high quality that meet or exceed
town specifications; and
      (4)   Do not pose a risk to public health or safety.
   (F)   The town shall publish and maintain objective inspection standards for
acceptance of improvements that:
      (1)   Do not change from project to project; and
      (2)   Are backed-up by expert opinion.
   (G)   The provisions of this section do not supersede the terms of a valid
development agreement, an adopted phasing plan, or the state construction code.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.067 IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES, COMPLETION ASSURANCES, AND WARRANTIES.
   (A)   If an applicant elects to guarantee any required improvement, the
applicant shall provide completion assurance for 110% of the cost of the
improvement, guaranteeing that the improvements will be completed within two
years after the date of the guarantee.
   (B)   For the purpose of posting an improvement guarantee, the cost of the
improvement shall be determined by an engineer's estimate or licensed
contractor's bid.
   (C)   The town shall accept any of the following forms of guarantee for an
improvement:
      (1)   Bond. The applicant may furnish a bond with corporate surety, which
bond shall be approved by the Town Attorney and filed with the Town Recorder.
      (2)   Escrow. The applicant may make a deposit in escrow with an escrow
holder approved by the Town Council, under an escrow agreement approved by the
Town Attorney and filed with the Town Recorder.
      (3)   Letter of credit. The applicant may provide a letter of credit from
a financial institution approved by the Town Council, under an agreement to
complete the improvements that is approved by the Town Attorney and filed with
the Town Recorder.
   (D)   As improvements are completed, inspected, and accepted by the town,
the Town Council shall, each quarter, at the option of the applicant, issue a
partial release of bonded or escrow funds proportional to the improvements
accepted during the prior quarter.
   (E)   The Town shall not require improvement guarantees for any of the
prohibited uses listed in UCA § 10-9a-604.5(3)(d), including improvements the
town has previously inspected and accepted, private improvements that are not
essential to meet the building code, fire code, flood or storm water management
provisions, street and access requirements, or other essential necessary public
safety improvements adopted in a land use regulation.
   (F)   Upon acceptance of all required improvements, the applicant shall
warrant that said improvements shall remain free from defects in material and
workmanship for a period of 24 months after the date of acceptance by the town.
The subdivider shall be solely responsible for all repairs and maintenance
required to keep the improvements in good working condition for this 24-month
period. If the town determines that any improvement was not constructed in
accordance with town standards or specifications, exhibits poor workmanship,
contains substandard materials, or fails to perform as intended, the town may
require the subdivider to repair or replace the improvement to meet town
standards, regardless of whether the improvement has been accepted or the
warranty period has expired.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
**** SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS ****
§ 151.080 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All subdivisions in the town shall be subject to the design criteria
as set forth by Iron County, Utah, hereby adopted for use in the town by
reference. These standards shall be strictly followed in the design and
construction of all improvements, including asphalt paving, sidewalks,
utilities, storm drainage, and any other improvements related to the
development of a subdivision. All subdivision plats submitted to the SRC and
reviewed by both the SRC and/or the Town Engineer to determine compliance with
these standards. The Town Engineer, Building Inspector or other authorized
personnel will inspect the installation of improvements to assure compliance to
these standards during construction.
   (B)   If there are any conflicts or inconsistencies between the requirements
as set forth in this subdivision code, the general plan, and the standards set
by Iron County, whichever is more stringent shall prevail.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.081 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   Street designs must conform to the adopted street plan for the area as
regards alignment and right-of-way widths. The layout of proposed streets for
any development must give due consideration to the extension of the street
network to abutting properties, developed or undeveloped; to produce a safe,
effective street network in conformity with the intent of the transportation
and circulation element of the general plan once development of the area has
been completed. Insofar as possible, offset streets or jogs at intersections
shall be avoided to bring about the best development for the area.
   (B)   Street right-of-way shall be as follows:
      (1)   Arterial roads: not less than 80 feet.
      (2)   Collector streets: not less than 66 feet.
      (3)   Local streets: not less than 50 feet.
      (4)   Pedestrian walkways: not less than six feet.
   (C)   Roadway improvement widths from right-of-way on both sides of the
street shall be as follows:
      (1)   Arterial street: not less than 60 feet.
      (2)   Collector streets: not less than 50 feet.
      (3)   Local streets: not less than 32 feet.
      (4)   Pedestrian walkways: not less than three feet.
   (D)   Grades on streets shall not exceed 8%.
   (E)   Streets shall intersect each other as nearly at right angles as
topography and other limiting factors of good design will permit.
   (F)   Every subdivided property shall be served from a dedicated public
street.
   (G)   On arterial and collector the centerline radius and curvature shall
not be less than 500 feet.
   (H)   Cul-de-sacs will be permitted providing they are big enough for
emergency vehicles to turn around.
   (I)   Proposed streets shall bear the number, not a name, and any existing
street which is in obvious alignment must have the same number.
   (J)   Blocks shall not be less than 495 feet in length.
   (K)   Streets shall be hard-surfaced to the easements on both sides.
   (L)   All drainage culverts need to be at least 16 inches to 18 inches.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.082 LOTS.
   (A)   Lot alignment. Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right
angles to street lines. Each lot shall front on a public street or road that is
on the state highway system, or that is dedicated to the town.
   (B)   Lot sizes. Residential lots shall conform to the zoning as established
in
Chapter 152 and the adopted zoning map.
   (C)   Thru lots. Lots that abut two parallel streets shall be permitted.
   (D)   Lot size. Lot size measurements will be considered actual
measurements. It is not intended that all lot sizes in an area be of identical
size. Lot size denotes the minimum allowable under the zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.083 PUBLIC USE AND SERVICE AREAS.
   (A)   The SRC may require easements not exceeding 20 feet in width for
poles, wires, conduits, storm sewers, gas, internet, water, or other utility
lines along the front, rear, and side lot lines.
   (B)   No irrigation ditches, canals, or other waterway shall be located
within a dedicated public street except to cross such a street in a location
approved by the Town Engineer and/or the SRC.
   (C)   All streets within the subdivision must be dedicated to the town.
   (D)   At the discretion of the SRC, all canals and major ditches shall be
fenced on both sides for public safety, health, and welfare with a six foot
chain link fence as specified by the Town Engineer.
   (E)   Developers need to work with the Kanarraville Irrigation Company and
the town officials on all ditches or canals and their easements that exist on
the property.
   (F)   Developers of any parcel of land must give due consideration in their
development plan to the location of any existing or established irrigation
ditch, company or private, supply, or wastewater, and provide for the continued
supply of irrigation water to downstream users and disposal of wastewater.
Written approval by irrigation companies of alterations to irrigation systems'
proposed developments shall be submitted by developers to the Town Engineer
prior to recording the plat.
   (G)   Dedication of all parks, school grounds, and other public open spaces
within the subdivision will be required in accordance with the general plan of
the town. Where this plan calls for larger amounts of public open space than
the subdivider's fair amount, as established by the SRC, the additional land is
to be reserved for acquisition by a public body, provided such acquisition is
made within one year from the date of final approval. It will be the
responsibility of the Town Council to determine appropriate legislation in
relation to this division.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.084 ACCESS TO LOTS.
   Access to each and every lot shall be provided by a public street that has
been dedicated to the town. The street layout for any proposed development must
give due consideration to the future development of adjacent parcels of ground.
Reasonable access to adjacent properties must be provided. No parcel of ground
may be landlocked as a result of the development of any other parcel of ground.
The development of flag lots is discouraged (each lot should have minimum
frontage).
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, organization, corporation, or other entity who violates any
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and is
punishable by a fine, imprisonment, or both, as determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 02-13-25, passed 2-13-2025)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Interpretation
   
152.004   Conflict
   
152.005   Effect on previous ordinances and maps
   
152.006   Building permit required
   
152.007   Building and zoning permit required
   
152.008   Site plans required
   
152.009   Inspection
   
152.010   Enforcement
   
152.011   Nuisance and abatement
   
152.012   Severability
   
152.013   Amendments
   
152.014   Hearing and publication and notice before amendment
   
152.015   Licensing
   
152.016   Fees
   
152.017   Zoning map
   
152.018   Adoption
   
152.019   Definitions
Planning Commission
   
152.030   Creation; number of members; appointment
   
152.031   Terms of office
   
152.032   Vacancies and removals for cause
   
152.033   Compensation
   
152.034   Officers
   
152.035   Meetings
   
152.036   Rules and regulations
   
152.037   Quorum and vote
   
152.038   Employees; expenditures
Board of Adjustment
   
152.050   Board; number of members; appointment; term and removal; vacancies
   
152.051   Officers
   
152.052   Duties and powers of Board
   
152.053   Meetings
   
152.054   Minutes
   
152.055   Quorum
   
152.056   Action to be taken
   
152.057   Vote necessary for reversal
   
152.058   Appeals to Board; time; persons entitled; transmission of papers
   
152.059   Stay of proceedings pending appeal
   
152.060   Decision on appeal
   
152.061   Rules
   
152.062   Judicial review of Board’s decision; time limitations
Home Occupations
   
152.075   Home occupation permit required
   
152.076   Procedure
   
152.077   Conditions
   
152.078   Fees
   
152.079   Non-compliance
   
152.080   Appeal
   
152.081   Business license required
   
152.082   Utah sales tax license
   
152.083   Awareness of neighbors
Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations
   
152.095   Effect of subchapter
   
152.096   Substandard lots at time of ordinance passage
   
152.097   Lot standards
   
152.098   Every dwelling to be on a lot; exceptions
   
152.099   Yard space for one building only
   
152.100   Private garage with side yard; reduced yards
   
152.101   Sale or lease of required space
   
152.102   Sale of lots below minimum space requirements
   
152.103   Yards to be unobstructed; exceptions
   
152.104   Area of accessory buildings
   
152.105   Additional height allowed
   
152.106   Exceptions to height limitations
   
152.107   Scenic vistas to be unobstructed
   
152.108   Minimum height of main building
   
152.109   Maximum height of accessory buildings
   
152.110   Clear view of intersecting street
   
152.111   Maximum height of fences, walls and hedges
   
152.112   Water and sewage requirements
   
152.113   Curbs, gutters and sidewalks
   
152.114   Beautification
   
152.115   Minimum drainage culvert size
Non-Conforming Buildings and Uses
   
152.125   Maintenance permitted
   
152.126   Repairs and alterations
   
152.127   Additions, enlargements and moving
   
152.128   Alteration where parking insufficient
   
152.129   Restoration of damaged buildings
   
152.130   One-year vacancy
   
152.131   Continuation of use
   
152.132   Occupation within one year
   
152.133   Change of use
   
152.134   Non-conforming use of land
   
152.135   Exceptions
Off-Street Parking
   
152.150   Off-street parking required
   
152.151   Number of parking spaces
   
152.152   Access requirements
   
152.153   Maintenance of parking lots
Conditional Uses
   
152.165   Purpose of conditional use provisions
   
152.166   Permit required
   
152.167   Application
   
152.168   Fee
   
152.169   Development plan
   
152.170   Planning Commission action
   
152.171   Town Council action
   
152.172   Expansion of a conditional use
   
152.173   Inspection
   
152.174   Time limitation
   
152.175   Revocation
Planned Unit Development
   
152.190   Purpose
   
152.191   Definition
   
152.192   Planned unit development permit
   
152.193   Required conditions
   
152.194   Uses allowed
   
152.195   General site plan
   
152.196   Review by Planning Commission
   
152.197   Scope of Planning Commission and Town Council action
   
152.198   Construction limitations
Design Review
   
152.210   Purpose
   
152.211   Application and review
   
152.212   Exceptions
   
152.213   Planning Commission approval
   
152.214   Consideration in review of applications
   
152.215   Conditions
   
152.216   Findings and decisions
   
152.217   Notification of approval or denial
   
152.218   Time limitations on approval
   
152.219   Transfer of approval upon change in use
   
152.220   Conformance to approval
   
152.221   Modifications
Construction Subject to Geologic, Flood or Other Natural Hazards
   
152.235   Purpose
   
152.236   Requirements
Mobile and Manufactured Homes, Mobile Home Parks and Mobile Home Subdivision
   
152.250   Purpose
   
152.251   Location and use
   
152.252   Mobile and manufactured homes placed as permanent residences
   
152.253   Mobile home parks
   
152.254   Approval
   
152.255   Application
   
152.256   Safety, sanitation and landscaping requirements
   
152.257   Permit required
   
152.258   Notification of neighboring property owners
Solar Access Protection and Incentives
   
152.270   Purpose
   
152.271   Protection of solar access in districts; RR-1, RR-2, RR-5
Zoning Districts
   
152.285   Establishment of zoning districts
   
152.286   Rules for locating boundaries
   
152.287   Supplementary regulations to all zones
   
152.288   Annexations
   
152.289   Listing of ordinance and map
Restricted Development Overlay (RDO)
   
152.300   Purpose
   
152.301   Permitted uses
   
152.302   Conditional uses
   
152.303   Other provisions
Open Space (OS)
   
152.315   Purpose
   
152.316   Use regulations
   
152.317   Site design regulations
   
152.318   Height regulations
   
152.319   Minimum area, width and yard regulations
Agricultural (A)
   
152.330   Purpose
   
152.331   Permitted uses
   
152.332   Conditional uses
   
152.333   Minimum area
   
152.334   Modifying regulations
   
152.335   Other provisions
Residential Agricultural (RA-5)
   
152.350   Purpose
   
152.351   Permitted uses
   
152.352   Conditional uses
   
152.353   Height regulations
   
152.354   Minimum area, width and yard requirements
   
152.355   Signs
   
152.356   Modifying regulations
   
152.357   Other provisions
Rural Residential Two Acre (RR-2)
   
152.370   Purpose
   
152.371   Permitted uses
   
152.372   Conditional uses
   
152.373   Height regulations
   
152.374   Minimum area, width and yard requirements
   
152.375   Signs
   
152.376   Modifying regulations
   
152.377   Other provisions
Rural Residential One-Half Acre (RR-1/2)
   
152.390   Purpose
   
152.391   Permitted uses
   
152.392   Conditional uses
   
152.393   Height regulations
   
152.394   Minimum area, width and yard requirements
   
152.395   Signs
   
152.396   Modifying regulations
   
152.397   Other provisions
Community Commercial District (CC)
   
152.410   Purpose
   
152.411   Permitted uses
   
152.412   Reserved
   
152.413   Maximum development intensities
   
152.414   Minimum area, width and yard requirements
   
152.415   Signs
Congregate Living and Treatment Facilities
   
152.430   Definitions
   
152.431   Residential facilities for persons with disability
   
152.432   Residential facilities for elderly persons
   
152.433   Protective housing, rehabilitation/treatment facilities (both
residential and non- residential), transitional housing, nursing homes and
assisted living facilities
 
   
152.999   Penalty
Cross Reference:
   Code enforcement compliance plan, see §
30.006
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of Kanarraville” and
may be so cited and pleaded.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the present and future residents of the town and to implement the
policies and realize the goals stated in the general plan of the town.
   (B)   This chapter is enacted with the intent to:
      (1)   Ensure that community growth and development occur in an orderly
and well-considered manner, consistent with the goals of the general plan;
      (2)   Provide adequate and economical infrastructure and community
services;
      (3)   Mitigate or prevent manmade and natural hazards;
      (4)   Promote order and beauty in the community;
      (5)   Maintain the community’s economic base and property values; and
      (6)   Preserve the unique rural, historic and scenic character of the
town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord., passed - -)
§ 152.003 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the
requirements contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for
the purposes set forth.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.004 CONFLICT.
   This chapter shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
agreements or other ordinances or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such
provisions which are less restrictive.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.005 EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND MAPS.
   Any existing ordinances covering zoning, in their entirety and including the
maps heretofore adopted and made a part of said ordinances are hereby
superseded and amended to read as set forth herein; provided, however, that,
this chapter, including the attached map, shall be deemed a continuation of
previous ordinances and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance of
revisions of previous ordinances is included in this chapter, whether in the
same or in different language; and this chapter shall be so interpreted upon
all questions of construction relating to tenure of officers and boards
established by previous ordinances and to questions of conforming or non-
conforming uses and buildings and structures, and to questions as to the dates
upon which such uses, buildings or structures became conforming or non-
conforming.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.006 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building,
structure, or part thereof as provided or as restricted in this chapter shall
not be commenced or continued, except after the issuance of a zoning permit by
the town’s Zoning Administrator and a written permit from the town’s Building
Inspector.
   (B)   The building permit and zoning permit shall not be issued if the
proposed construction, alteration, repair or removal of building or part
thereof shall be in violation of the restrictive covenants effective as to the
property or lot. Work not started within six months will require a new permit
and fee.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.007 BUILDING AND ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation, or the agent of either, shall erect,
construct, reconstruct, alter, repair or remove any building or other structure
in the town without having first obtained a building and zoning permit from the
town’s designated Building Inspector and Zoning Administrator. The town
officials charged with the administration of this chapter or any other town
official shall not grant a permit for the erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure if
such building or structure would be in violation of any provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any permit granted in violation of this or any other applicable town
ordinance or code shall be null and void.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.008 SITE PLANS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A detailed site plan, with scale and sheet size determined by the
town’s Planning Commission or the town’s Zoning Administrator, when authorized,
shall be filed as part of any application, prior to request for a zoning
permit.
   (B)   It shall show, where pertinent:
      (1)   Scale of plan and direction of north point;
      (2)   Lot lines, adjacent streets, roads, rights-of-way, easements;
      (3)   Location of all existing structures on subject property and
adjoining properties, with utility lines, poles and the like, fully
dimensioned;
      (4)   Location of proposed construction and improvements, with location
and dimension of all signs;
      (5)   Any parking lot to be built new or re-modeled must be built to
plan, have proper drainage, and must have a building permit. Building permit
fee shall be determined by the Town Council;
      (6)   Motor vehicle access, circulation patterns, with individual parking
stalls, and curb, gutter and sidewalk location;
      (7)   Necessary explanatory notes;
      (8)   Name, address, telephone number of builder and owner; and
      (9)   All other information required as determined by the town’s Planning
Commission or designated authorized individual.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.009 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The town’s Zoning Administrator is authorized to inspect or to have
inspected all buildings and structures in the course of their construction,
modification or repair, and to inspect land uses to determine compliance with
zoning ordinance provisions.
   (B)   The town’s Zoning Administrator or any authorized employee of the town
shall use the right to enter any building for the purpose of determining the
use, or to enter premises for the purpose of determining compliance with the
said ordinance; provided that, such right of entry is to be used only at
reasonable hours.
   (C)   In no case shall entry be made to any occupied building in the absence
of the owner or tenant thereof without written permission of an owner or
written order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.010 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town’s Zoning Administrator and/or Building Inspector is
authorized as the enforcing officer for this chapter, and shall enforce all
provisions, entering actions in court if necessary, and his or her failure to
do so shall not legalize any violations of such provisions.
   (B)   The Town Council may, by resolution or ordinance, from time to time
entrust administration of this chapter, in whole or in part, to another officer
of the town, without amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.011 NUISANCE AND ABATEMENT.
   Any building or structure erected, constructed, altered, enlarged,
converted, moved or maintained contrary to provisions of this chapter, and any
use of land, building or premise established, conducted or maintained contrary
to provisions of this chapter shall be, and the same hereby is, declared to be
unlawful and a public nuisance; and the local attorney shall, upon request of
the governing body, at once commence action or proceedings for abatement and
removal or enjoinment thereof in a manner provided by law, and take other steps
and apply to such courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will
abate and remove such building or structure, and restrain or enjoin any person,
firm or corporation from erecting, building, maintaining, or using said
building or structure or property contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.012 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portion of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.013 AMENDMENTS.
   The town may from time to time amend the number, shape, boundaries or areas
of any district, or regulation, or other provision of this chapter, but any
such amendment shall not be made or become effective until after 15 days’
notice and public hearing and unless the same shall have been proposed by or be
first submitted to the town’s Planning Commission for its recommendation, which
shall be returned within 30 days.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.014 HEARING AND PUBLICATION AND NOTICE BEFORE AMENDMENT.
   Before finally adopting any such amendment, the Town Council shall hold a
public hearing thereon, at least 15 days’ notice of the time and place of which
shall be given by at least one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.015 LICENSING.
   All departments and public employees of the town which are vested with duty
or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of
this chapter and shall issue no permit or license for uses, buildings or
purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be null and void.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.016 FEES.
   (A)   Fees may be charged to applicants for building, occupancy and
conditional use permits, and planned development approval, Town Planning
Commission and Town Board of Adjustment hearings, and such other services as
are required by this chapter to be performed by public officers or agencies.
   (B)   Such fees shall be established by the town and be in amounts
reasonably needed to defray costs to the public.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.017 ZONING MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/208bc5ae7a6a8cf9b84b6d02675fd4fb97910795/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1117.png]
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.018 ADOPTION.
   This chapter shall become effective 30 days from its passage or 20 days from
its first posting, whichever is the most remote from the passage thereof.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.019 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number shall include
the plural, and the plural the singular; the word “building” shall include
“structure”; the words “used” or “occupied” shall include arranged, designed,
constructed, altered, converted, rented, leased or intended to be used or
occupied; the word “shall” is mandatory and not directory, and the word “may”
is permissive; the word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual; the word
“lot” includes the word plot or parcel. Words used in this chapter, but not
defined herein, shall have the meaning as defined in any other ordinance
adopted by the local jurisdiction.
   ACCESSORY USE OF BUILDING. A use or building on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
building.
   AGRICULTURE. The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening; breeding, grazing and keeping or raising of domestic animals and
fowl, except household pets, and not including any agricultural industry or
business, such as fruit packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar
uses.
   AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY OR BUSINESS. An industry or business involving
agricultural products in manufacturing, packaging, treatment, sales, intensive
feeding or storage, including, but not limited to, animal feed yards, fur
farms, food packaging or processing plants, commercial poultry or egg
production and similar uses as determined by the Planning Commission.
   ALLEY. A public accessway less than 26 feet in width, which is designed to
give secondary access to lots or abutting properties; an ALLEY shall not be
considered a street for the purposes of this chapter.
   ANIMALS. The following: horses; cows; sheep; and goats; excluding pigs and
exotic animals.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline, or any other motor fuel
or lubricating oil or grease for operating motor vehicles is offered for sale
to the public and deliveries are made directly into motor vehicles, and where
services performed may include tube and tire repair, battery charging, storage
of merchandise, lubricating of automobiles, replacement of spark plugs, lights,
fans and other small parts, but not including major auto repair.
   AVERAGE PERCENT OF SLOPE. An expression of rise or fall in elevation along a
line perpendicular to the contours of the land, connecting the highest point of
land to the lowest point of land within an area or within a lot. A vertical
rise of 100 feet between two points 100 feet apart, measured on a horizontal
plane is a 100% slope.
   BASEMENT. A story whose floor is more than 12 inches below the average level
of the adjoining ground, but where no more than one-half of its floor-to-
ceiling heights is above the average contact level of the adjoining ground. A
BASEMENT shall be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement, and as
a half-story for the purpose of side-yard determination.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An establishment which provides overnight accommodations
and a breakfast meal for consideration. In order to qualify as a BED AND
BREAKFAST INN, an establishment must meet the following criteria.
      (1)   The establishment may be housed in an existing or in a new
structure suitable to the purpose of a BED AND BREAKFAST INN. The structure
must comply with the Uniform Building Code and all other applicable state and
local statutes, ordinances and regulations.
      (2)   The establishment must not have more than four guest rooms for
rent.
      (3)   The owner and/or manager must reside on the premises.
      (4)   Off-street parking must be provided as noted: two spaces for the
owner and/or manager, and one space per guest room.
      (5)   There may be no more than one sign denoting the name and nature of
the establishment. The sign may not be larger than nine square feet; it must be
made of wood, stone and/or brick; and it may be artificially illuminated only
by external, low-intensity, screened lamps.
      (6)   The establishment must be on a street that meets town standards and
Fire Code width requirements.
      (7)   Entrances to all guest rooms must be on the interior of the
structure. Secondary, exterior entrances to guest rooms may be permitted only
for access to patios, verandas or balconies.
      (8)   The architectural style and physical size of the structure should
be in harmony with the residential character of the community as determined by
the Planning Commission. The structure must not exceed the height restrictions
which apply in the zone in which it is located.
      (9)   The site must be planned and landscaped so as to minimize the
impact on neighboring properties and in order to retain the residential
character of the neighborhood.
   BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION. The placing of concrete footings for a building
or structure.
   BLOCK. The land surrounded by streets or other rights-of-way, other than an
alley, or land which is designed as a block on any recorded subdivision plat.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided; except that, land with an average grade exceeding 15% shall not
be considered BUILDABLE AREA unless it is approved by conditional use permit
for construction, after study by a geologist, soils engineer or sanitarian as
required by the Planning Commission.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended to be used for the shelter, or
enclosure of persons, animals or property.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building which is subordinate to, and the use of
which is incidental to, that of the main building or use on the same lot.
   BUILDING, FARM. An agricultural structure assembled for a purpose relating
to livestock or crops.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average finished grade
surface to the highest point of the building roof or coping.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The official designated as the BUILDING INSPECTOR for
the town by the Town Council. Must be certified by professional society.
   CARPORT. A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purposes of this chapter, a CARPORT shall be subject to all the regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses,
maintained and controlled by a duly-recognized religious organization where
persons regularly assemble for worship.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land for which a conditional use permit is
required, pursuant to this chapter.
   CORRAL. A space, other than a building, less than one acre in area, used for
the confinement of animals or fowl.
   COVERAGE, BUILDING. The percent of the total site area covered by buildings.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the territory of the town, established as a zoning
district by this chapter, within which certain uniform regulations and
requirements or various combinations thereof apply under the provisions of this
chapter; also includes ZONE and ZONING DISTRICT.
   DRIVEWAY. A private roadway, the use of which is limited to persons
residing, employed or otherwise using or visiting the parcel on which the
driveway is located.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as the more or
less permanent residence or sleeping place of one or more persons or families,
but not including a tent, recreational coach, hotel, hospital or nursing home.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. See MOBILE HOME.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
one family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families, the structure having only two dwelling units.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
more than two families, and having more than two dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling, apartment hotel or apartment
motel, designed for or occupied by one family for living or sleeping purposes
and having one, but not more than one, kitchen or set of fixed cooking
facilities, other than hot plates or other portable cooking units.
   EARTH SHELTER HOME. A dwelling specifically designed for energy saving
purposes to be below the finished grade. A lived in basement of a uncompleted
single-family dwelling shall not constitute an EARTH SHELTER HOME.
   EASEMENT. That portion of a lot or lots reserved for present or future use
by a person or agency other than the legal owner(s) of said property(ies). The
EASEMENT may be for use under, on or above said lot or lots.
   ESSENTIAL FACILITIES. Utilities or sanitary and public safety facilities
provided by a public or other governmental agency for overhead or surface or
underground services, excluding any building, electrical sub-station or
transmission line of 50 KV or greater capacity, except by conditional use
permit.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   FENCE. A physical barrier to delineate, contain or designate an area
designed for a specific use (i.e., an enclosure for a dwelling unit; an area
for storage and the like).
   FLOOD HAZARD. A hazard to land or improvements due to inundation or overflow
water having sufficient velocity to transport or deposit debris, scour the
surface soil, dislodge or damage buildings or erode the banks of watercourses.
   FRONTAGE, LOT. The lineal measurement of the front lot line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building, or a portion of a main
building, used or intended to be used for the storage of motor vehicles,
recreational coaches, boats or other recreational vehicles, but not including
the parking or storage of trucks or vans having a capacity in excess of one and
one-half tons, and not including space for more than a total of four such
vehicles for each dwelling unit on the premises.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A structure or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
used for the repair of self-propelled vehicles, trailers or boats, including
general repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles,
recreational coaches and minor collision service, but not including major body,
frame or fender repairs or overall automobile or truck painting.
   GEOLOGICAL HAZARD. A hazard inherent in the crust of the earth, or
artificially created, which is dangerous or potentially dangerous to life,
property or improvements, due to the movement, failure or shifting of the
earth.
   GRADE.
      (1)   For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the
sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street;
      (2)   For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining the streets;
      (3)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the centers of all
exterior walls of the building; and
      (4)   Any wall parallel or nearly parallel to and not more than five feet
from a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   GOVERNING BODY. The elected legislative body of the Town of Kanarraville.
   HALF-ACRE LOT. A lot that is 0.45 acres or 19,640 square feet.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any accessory use, clearly incidental and secondary to the
use of a dwelling for dwelling purposes and which does not change the
residential character thereof, conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried
out by persons residing in the dwelling unit.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept
for company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats and canaries. HOUSEHOLD PETS shall
not include the keeping of dangerous animals.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper trash, rubber
debris or other waste or salvage materials; dismantled, junked or wrecked
automobiles or parts thereof; and old or scrap ferrous or non-ferrous metal
materials.
   LOCAL ATTORNEY. The attorney employed by or officially representing the
town.
   LOCAL BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Kanarraville Town Building Inspector employed
by or officially representing the town.
   LOCAL ENGINEER. The engineer employed by or officially representing the
town.
   LOCAL JURISDICTION. The Town of Kanarraville.
   LOCAL PLANNER. The planner employed by or officially representing the town.
   LOT. A parcel or unit of land described by metes and bounds and held or
intended to be held in separate lease or ownership, or a parcel or unit of land
shown as a lot or parcel on a recorded subdivision map, or shown on a plat used
in the lease or sale or offer of lease or sale of land resulting from the
division of a larger tract into three or more smaller units.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection
or upon two parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same street
forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot lines
measured in the main direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding the lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. For an interior lot, the lot line adjoining the street; for
a corner lot or through lot, the lot line adjoining either street, as elected
by the low owner.
   LOT LINE, REAR. Ordinarily, that line of a lot which is opposite and most
distant from the front line of the lot. In the case of a triangular or gore-
shaped lot, a line ten feet in length within the parcel parallel to and at a
maximum distance from the front lot line. In cases where these definitions are
not applicable, the town’s Building Inspector shall designate the REAR LOT
LINE.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front or rear lot line. A SIDE
LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots in an interior side lot
line; a SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is a street side lot line.
   LOT, RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land of not less than 16 feet in width
connecting a lot to a street for use as private access to that lot.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure built after 6-15-1876, transportable in one
or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used
as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems contained therein.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure built prior to 6-15-1876, transportable in one or
more sections, which is eight body feet or more in width and 32 body feet or
more in length and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems contained therein.
   MOBILE HOME AWNING OR COVER. A light-weight, overhead structure used in
conjunction with a mobile home for the purpose of shading or weather protection
of areas such as carports, patios, porches, windows and similar uses.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An approved residential development together with certain
accessory buildings and uses providing for the enjoyment and benefit of the
residents of the park, in which individual spaces are provided for the
placement of a mobile home for a dwelling unit or sleeping purposes, whether or
not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A parcel of land within an approved mobile home park
which is designed and intended for the accommodation of one mobile home.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure built in accordance with the standards set forth
in the Uniform Building Code adopted and in effect at the time of construction
which is composed of components substantially assembled in a manufacturing
plant and transported to the building site for final assembly on a permanent
foundation.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings for the drive-in accommodation of
transient guests, comprising individual sleeping or living units, and designed
and located to serve the motoring public.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or a structure which does
not conform to regulations for height, coverage or yards of the district in
which it is situated, but which was in conformity with applicable regulations,
if any, at the time of its erection.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. The use of a building or structure or land which does
not conform to use regulations for the district in which it is situated, but
which was in conformity with applicable regulations, if any, at the time of its
establishment.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A map which has been adopted as the official map of the town,
showing existing public streets, streets on plats of subdivisions which have
been approved by the town’s Planning Commission, and/or other street
extensions, widening, narrowing or variations which have been accurately
surveyed and definitely located.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. The space required to park one passenger vehicle,
which space shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
   OPEN SPACE. The use of land which leaves soil generally undisturbed and upon
which natural vegetation, whether or not native to the area, occupies the major
visible aspect of the land. OPEN SPACE is designated as such with the intent to
minimize flooding, erosion and other environmental hazards; to protect the
natural scenic character of areas not suitable or not yet suitable for
development; and to promote the well-being of present and future residents of
the town.
   PARKING LOT. An open area, other than a street, used for the parking of more
than four automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for
compensation or accommodation for clients or customers.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. Development characterized by a unified site design
for a number mousing units, clustering of buildings and providing common open
space density increases and a a mix of building types and land uses.
   PLOT PLAN. A plat of a lot, drawn to scale, showing its actual measurements,
the size and location of any existing buildings or buildings to be erected, the
location of the lot in relation to abutting streets, and such other information
as may be required by the town’s Planning Commission.
   RECREATIONAL COACH. A vehicle, such as a travel trailer, tent camper, camp
car or other vehicle, with or without motive power, designed and/or constructed
to travel on the public thoroughfare in accordance with the provisions of the
Utah Vehicle Code, and designed for use as human habitation for a temporary and
recreational nature.
   SIGN. A presentation or representation of words, letters, figures, designs,
picture or colors, publicly displayed so as to give notice relative to a
person, a business, an article of merchandise, a service, an assemblage, a
solicitation or a request for aid; also, the structure or framework or any
natural object on which any sign is erected or is intended to be erected or
exhibited or which is being used or is intended to be used for sign purposes.
   SIGN AREA. The area in square feet of the smallest rectangle enclosing the
total exterior surface of a sign having but one exposed exterior surface.
Should the sign have more than one surface, the SIGN AREA shall be the
aggregate of all surfaces measured as above which can be seen from any one
direction at one time.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION AND INFORMATION. A sign displayed to indicate the name
or nature of a building or of a use.
   SIGN, DEVELOPMENT. A sign indicating the name of, and information pertinent
to, new construction.
   SIGN, CIVIC. A sign identifying name and/or function of a public building.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign identifying property for sale, lease or rent.
   SIGN RESIDENTIAL. A sign identifying a residence.
   SITE PLAN. A plan required by, and providing the information required by §
152.008 of this chapter.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Any mechanism that heats or provides electricity to a
residence or other building, using energy from the sun.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. Any stable where horses are boarded and/or kept for hire.
   STORY, HALF. A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls do not extend more than
four feet above the floor of such story, and the ceiling area of which does not
exceed two-thirds of the floor area of the same HALF STORY.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires fixed location on
the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed location upon the ground;
includes BUILDING.
   YARD. A required open space on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as permitted elsewhere in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A space on the same lot with a building, between the front line
of the building and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of
the lot. The “depth” of the FRONT YARD is the minimum distance between the
front lot line and the front line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. A space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line
of the building and the rear lot line, and extending the full width of the lot.
The “depth” of the REAR YARD is the minimum distance between the rear lot line
and the rear line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A space on the same lot with a building, between the side line
of the building, and the side lot line and extending from the front yard to the
rear yard. The “width” of the SIDE YARD shall be the minimum distance between
the side lot line and the side line of the building.
   ZONE. See DISTRICT.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The local official designated by the Town Council to
enforce the regulations of this chapter.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Kanarraville Town Zoning Ordinance or this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. 04-10-03A, passed 4-10-2003; Ord. 09-
09-04-B, passed 9-9-2004)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 152.030 CREATION; NUMBER OF MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT.
   The Town Planning Commission shall consist of five members, each to be
appointed by the Town Mayor with the advice and consent of the Town Council.
The Town Council may designate, by resolution, the composition of the Town
Planning Commission. It is the intent of this chapter that the Town Planning
Commission not consist of members, all of whom are from the same field of
expertise. The five members of the Town Planning Commission shall own property
within the boundaries of the town and can attend the regularly scheduled
planning meetings. At least three of the five members shall hold no other
public office or position within the town. The Town Council shall appoint a
representative from among its members to act as a liaison between the Town
Council and the Town Planning Commission. One member, but not more than one, of
the Town Board of Adjustment shall be a member of the Town Planning Commission.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. 06-12-03, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 152.031 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The terms of office for the five Town Planning Commission members shall be
for four years. The Town Planning Commission members terms shall be staggered
so that no two members terms shall expire every other year. The term of office
for the Town Council member designated liaison for the Town Planning Commission
shall correspond to his or her tenure of office as the Town Council member.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.032 VACANCIES AND REMOVALS FOR CAUSE.
   (A)   Vacancies of appointed members occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of terms shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by
appointment of the Town Council. The Town Council shall have the right to
remove any member of the Town Planning Commission for misconduct and may remove
any member for non-performance of duty.
   (B)   Non-performance of duty shall include a repeated failure to attend
Town Planning Commission meetings.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.033 COMPENSATION.
   The Town Planning Commission shall serve without compensation; except that,
the Town Council shall provide for reimbursement of the Town Planning
Commission for actual expenses incurred, upon presentation of proper receipts
and vouchers.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.034 OFFICERS.
   The Town Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
from among its members, whose terms shall be for four years.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.035 MEETINGS.
   The Town Planning Commission shall conduct regularly scheduled meetings. All
meetings of the Town Planning Commission shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.036 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Planning Commission may adopt such rules and procedures as it may
deem necessary for the proper conduct of its business. The Town Planning
Commission shall keep a record of its proceedings, such record shall be open to
inspection by the public at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.037 QUORUM AND VOTE.
   A quorum shall consist of two members and a Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson.
Evidence shall not be presented unless a quorum is present. A majority vote
shall be constituted of at least a majority of members present.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.038 EMPLOYEES; EXPENDITURES.
   The Town Planning Commission may, upon the approval of the Town Council,
employ experts and staff, including consultants and a secretary, and pay such
expenses, exclusive of gifts, as may be reasonable and necessary for carrying
out the duties defined in this chapter; providing that, such expenditures may
not exceed the amount appropriated for the operation of the Town Planning
Commission by the Town Council.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 152.050 BOARD; NUMBER OF MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT; TERM AND REMOVAL; VACANCIES.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members, each to be
appointed by the Town Council for the term of five years; provided that, the
term of one member shall expire each year. Any member may be removed for cause
by the appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearing, if
such public hearing is requested. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One member, but not more than
one, of the Town Planning Commission shall be a member of the Town Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.051 OFFICERS.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-
Chairperson from among its members, who shall serve for a term of one year.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.052 DUTIES AND POWERS OF BOARD.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the administrative
official in the enforcement of this article or of any ordinance adopted
pursuant thereto;
   (B)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board is required to pass under the provisions of this chapter;
and
   (C)   To authorize upon appeal such variance from the terms of this chapter
as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to special
conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result
in unnecessary hardship; provided that, the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed and substantial justice done. Before any variance may be authorized,
however, it shall be shown that:
      (1)   The variance will not substantially adversely affect the town’s
Master Plan or this chapter and that adherence to the strict letter of this
chapter will cause difficulties and hardships, the imposition of which upon the
petitioner is unnecessary in order to carry out the general purpose of the
Master Plan;
      (2)   Special circumstances are attached to the property covered by the
application which do not generally apply to other property in the same
district; and
      (3)   That because of said special circumstances, property covered by
application is deprived of privileges possessed by other properties in the same
district; and that the granting of the variance is essential to the enjoyment
of a substantial property right that is possessed by other property in the same
district.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.053 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Town Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson, and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Town Board of Adjustment shall be properly advertised and shall
be open to the public. Notice of Board of Adjustment meetings shall be mailed
to all property owners appearing on the latest ownership plat in the County
Recorder’s Office within a 300-foot radius of any property for which an action
of the Board of Adjustment is being requested. It shall be the responsibility
of the applicant for such action to provide the stamped, addressed envelopes
necessary to provide such notice. The Chairperson may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.054 MINUTES.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing,
the vote of each member on each question, or if absent or failure to vote,
indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be filed with the Town Clerk and shall be
public record.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.055 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall be considered three members of the Town Board of Adjustment,
and no evidence shall be presented to the Board unless a quorum is present.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.056 ACTION TO BE TAKEN.
   Approval or disapproval, rejection or modified approval of an application
shall be based upon findings which shall be made a part of the official record.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.057 VOTE NECESSARY FOR REVERSAL.
   The concurring vote of three members of the Town Board of Adjustment shall
be necessary to remove any order, requirement or determination of any such
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the appellant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or to effect any variation
in the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.058 APPEALS TO BOARD; TIME; PERSONS ENTITLED; TRANSMISSION OF PAPERS.
   (A)   Appeals to the Town Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department or board of the town affected by any
decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within 15
days as provided by the rules of the Board by filing with the officer from whom
the appeal is taken and with the Town Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof.
   (B)   The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the Town Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.059 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS PENDING APPEAL.
   (A)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Town
Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him
or her that, by reason, offsets stated in the certificate a stay would in his
or her opinion cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (B)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order which may be granted by the Town Board of Adjustment or by
district court on application and notice and on due cause shown.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.060 DECISION ON APPEAL.
   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Town Board of Adjustment may
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and may make such offer, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.061 RULES.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the regulation of its
procedure and the conduct of its duties not inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter or of the state law. Such rules, to become effective, shall be
first approved by the town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.062 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF BOARD’S DECISION; TIME LIMITATIONS.
   The town or any person aggrieved by any decision of the Town Board of
Adjustment may have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any
court of competent jurisdiction; provided, petition for such relief is
presented to the court within 30 days after the filing of such decision in the
office of the Board.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 152.075 HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   To assure compliance with provisions of this chapter and to protect the
character of residential neighborhoods in the town, a home occupation
application shall be obtained from the Town Clerk before a dwelling unit in a
residential zone may be used for business purposes.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.076 PROCEDURE.
   Applications for home occupation permit shall be submitted to the Town
Planning Commission. Applications will be reviewed by the Town Planning
Commission and forwarded to the Town Council with the Planning Commission’s
recommendations for action. The Town Council will then act upon the
application. Upon approval of an application a home occupation permit will be
issued, which permit shall state the home occupation permitted, the conditions
attached thereto and any time limitations imposed thereon. The permit shall not
be issued unless the Planning Commission is satisfied that the applicant will
meet all of the conditions listed below, and that the applicant has agreed in
writing to comply with all said conditions.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.077 CONDITIONS.
   Each and every, one of the following conditions must be observed at all
times by the holder of a home occupation permit.
   (A)   Not more than one person is employed in the home occupation or office
of a professional person on the premises in addition to the residing family.
   (B)   The home occupation shall be conducted wholly within the structures on
the premises and shall not exceed 25% of the total ground floor area of the
home. The home occupation shall not occupy any area within said structure which
is required for off-street parking by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Inventory and supplies for the home occupation shall not occupy more
than 50% of the permitted area, or 12% of the ground floor area of the home.
   (D)   No business signs are used with the exception of one unlighted sign
concerned with the home occupation or office of a professional person not to
exceed three square feet which shall be attached to the exterior wall of the
structure in a manner deemed by the Planning Commission and Town Council not to
detract from the residential character of the dwelling or the neighborhood in
which the home occupation is to be located.
   (E)   No display of any kind shall be visible from the exterior of the
premises.
   (F)   No mechanical or electrical apparatus, equipment or tools shall be
permitted, except those items which are commonly associated with a residential
use or as are customary to home crafts or home occupations.
   (G)   The home occupation shall not generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic
in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is
located.
   (H)   There shall be complete conformity with fire, building, plumbing,
electrical and health codes and to all state and town laws and ordinances.
   (I)   The home occupation shall not cause a demand for municipal or utility
services or community facilities in excess of those usually and customarily
provided for residential uses.
   (J)   The home occupation shall not alter the residential character of the
premises or unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet, including radio and
television reception, or the neighborhood by reason of color, design,
materials, construction, lighting, sounds, noises, vibrations, dust, odors,
noxious fumes and the like.
   (K)   Any special condition established by the Planning Commission and made
of record in the home occupation permit, as it deems necessary to carry out the
intent of this chapter shall be met.
   (L)   All home occupation permits shall be valid for one year, and may be
renewed annually; provided, there have been no reported violations, complaints
or detrimental characteristics which may, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, require termination of said home occupation, or revocation of home
occupation permit. Signatures and public hearing will not be needed on
renewals.
   (M)   Retail sales on the premises shall be limited to merchandise directly
related to the services offered by the home occupation; otherwise, there shall
be no delivery or resale to customers of retail merchandise on the premises.
   (N)   Premises shall be subject to inspection by the Planning Commission,
after reasonable notice is given with due cause.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.078 FEES.
   A fee of $50 shall accompany the initial application for a home occupation
permit and thereafter shall be due and payable at the time of business license
renewal.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.079 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Any home occupation permit shall be revoked by the Planning Commission upon
violation of any requirements of this chapter, or upon failure to comply with
any of the conditions or limitations of the permit, unless such violation is
corrected within ten days of receipt of written notice thereof. A permit may be
revoked for repeated violations of the requirements of this chapter,
notwithstanding compliance to the violation notice.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.080 APPEAL.
   In the event of denial of any permit, or of the revocation thereof or of
objection to the limitations placed thereon, appeal may be made to the Board of
Adjustments in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.081 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A home occupation permit is not a business license, and the granting of said
permit shall not relieve the permittee of any other license requirement of the
town or of any other public agency.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.082 UTAH SALES TAX LICENSE.
   If required by the state, a state sales tax license will be required with
the town listed as a business location.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.083 AWARENESS OF NEIGHBORS.
   All applications must have signatures of neighboring land owners within one
block of the exterior boundaries of the property involved. Signatures must
indicate that neighbors are aware of the home occupation.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
§ 152.095 EFFECT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The regulations hereinafter set forth in this subchapter qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in
this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.096 SUBSTANDARD LOTS AT TIME OF ORDINANCE PASSAGE.
   Any lot legally held in separate ownership at the time of passage of this
chapter, which lot is below the requirements for lot area or lot width for the
district in which it is located may be used for a single-family dwelling if
such lot is located in a district which permits single-family dwellings. The
width of each of the side yards for such a dwelling may be reduced to a width
which is not less than the same percentage of the lot width as the required
side yard would be of the required lot width; provided that, in no case shall
the smaller of the two side yards be less than five feet or the total width of
the two side yards be less than 13 feet.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.097 LOT STANDARDS.
   Except as provided in this chapter, every lot, existing or intended to be
created, shall have such area, width and depth as is required by this chapter
for the district in which such lot Is located and shall have frontage upon a
dedicated or publicly-approved street or upon a private street or right-of-way
approved by the Town Planning Commission, before a building permit may be
issued.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.098 EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every dwelling structure shall be located and maintained on a separate lot
having no less than the minimum area, width, depth and frontage required by
this chapter for the district in which the dwelling structure is located. Group
dwellings, cluster dwellings, condominiums and other multi-structure dwelling
complexes under single ownership and management, which are permitted by this
chapter and have approval from the Town Planning Commission, may occupy one lot
for each such multi-structure complex.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.099 YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY.
   No required yard or other open space around an existing building or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered as providing a yard or open
space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space
on an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot
whereon a building is to be erected or established.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.100 PRIVATE GARAGE WITH SIDE YARD; REDUCED YARDS.
   On any interior lot where a private garage, containing a sufficient number
of parking spaces to meet the requirements of this chapter, has a side yard
equal to the minimum side yard required for a dwelling in the same district,
the width of the other side yard for the dwelling may be reduced to equal that
of the minimum required side yard; and on anywhere such garage has such side
yard, the rear yard of the dwelling may be reduced to five feet; provided, the
garage also has a rear yard of at least five feet.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.101 SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE.
   No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this chapter for lot or building may be sold or leased away
from such lot or building.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.102 SALE OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area
requirements for the district in which it is located may be cut off from a
larger parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building
or development as a lot.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.103 YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed except
for accessory buildings in a rear yard, the ordinary projections of skylights,
sills, belt courses, cornices, chimneys, flues and other ornamental features
which project into a yard not more than two and one-half feet, and open or
lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fire-proof outside stairways and balconies
opening upon fire towers projecting into a yard not more than five feet.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.104 AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No accessory building or group of accessory buildings in any residential
district shall cover more than 25% of the rear yard.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.105 ADDITIONAL HEIGHT ALLOWED.
   Public and quasi-public utility buildings, when authorized in a district,
may be erected to a height greater than the district height limit by
conditional use permit.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.106 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles,
chimneys, smokestacks, water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater
lofts, silos or similar structures may be erected above the height limits
herein prescribed, but no space above the height limit shall be allowed for
purposes of providing additional floor space. All height exceptions are subject
to conditional use permit.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.107 SCENIC VISTAS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   All height exceptions (subject to conditional use permit) shall in no
way inhibit or obstruct a scenic vista of surrounding neighbors.
   (B)   All conditional use permits made to the Town Planning Commission shall
include the notification and signatures of potentially affected neighbors
within 500 feet.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.108 MINIMUM HEIGHT OF MAIN BUILDING.
   No building, excepting farm buildings, which is accessory shall be erected
to height less than one story above grade. Exceptions shall be made to a bona
fide earth shelter home. See §
152.006.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.109 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No building which is accessory to a one-family, two- family, multi-family
dwelling shall be erected to a height greater than one story or 20 feet.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.110 CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREET.
   In all districts which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in
excess of two feet in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a
triangular area formed by the street property lines and a line connecting them
at points 40 feet from the intersection of the street lines, except a
reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed vision to
automobile drivers; and pedestal-type identification signs and pumps at
gasoline service stations.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.111 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   (A)   Fences, walls and hedges may be erected or allowed to the permitted
building height when located within the buildable area; provided that, any
physical structure over six feet in height shall require approval of Planning
Commission and Town Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions herein, no fence, wall or hedge
exceeding four feet in height shall be erected or allowed closer to any street
line than the required building setback line.
   (C)   For purpose of this section, single shrub planting shall not
constitute a hedge if the closest distance between the foliage of any two
plants is and remains at least five feet.
   (D)   Where a fence, wall, or hedge is located along a property line
separating two lots and there is a difference in the grade of the properties on
the two sides of the property line, the fence, wall or hedge may be erected or
allowed to the maximum height permitted on either side of the property line.
   (E)   Fencing and walls eight feet in height, including protective gates,
shall be required around swimming pools, Jacuzzis and similar structures.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.112 WATER AND SEWAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   All proposed building or proposed use shall be connected to an approved
water system within the town limits. All proposed building or proposed use
within the town shall be connected to an approved individual septic system or
sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.113 CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The installation of curb, gutter and sidewalks of a type approved by
the Town Council may be required on any existing or proposed street adjoining a
lot on which a building is to be constructed or remodeled, or on which a new
use is to be established.
   (B)   Such curbs, gutters and sidewalks may be required as a condition of
building or use permit approval.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.114 BEAUTIFICATION.
   (A)   Buildings, uses and lots shall be maintained in such a manner as to
enhance community pride and beautification.
   (B)   No junk, rubbish, weeds or other unsightly material or conditions
shall be permitted on any lot, right-of-way or easement or as a part of any
building or use.
   (C)   No inoperable or unlicensed vehicles are allowed within the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.115 MINIMUM DRAINAGE CULVERT SIZE.
   (A)   Minimum size requirements.
      (1)   All newly installed or replaced culverts within the town must have
a minimum inside diameter of 16 inches.
      (2)   In areas identified by the Town Board or Maintenance Department as
having high flow or known drainage issues, a minimum culvert size of 18 inches
may be required.
   (B)   Scope and applicability. This section applies to:
      (1)   All new culvert installations.
      (2)   Replacement of existing culverts, whether due to failure, planned
upgrades, or development.
      (3)   Residential and commercial driveways that intersect public ditches
or drainage systems.
   (C)   Pre-approval and inspection. 
      (1)   All work must be pre-approved and inspected by the town's
Maintenance Department or its designee. Non-compliant culverts may be required
to be removed and replaced at the owner's expense.
      (2)   Property owners are responsible for ensuring proper installation.
(Ord. 10-9-25B, passed 10-9-2025)
NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
§ 152.125 MAINTENANCE PERMITTED.
   A non-conforming building or structure may be maintained. A building
constructed before the year 2000 and the passing of the Zoning Ordinance may
continue as a compliant building if it complies to the present zoned use and
may be altered according to the present zoning law and building codes whether
it has been occupied or not.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. 04-10-03A, passed 4-10-2003)
§ 152.126 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.
   Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a non-conforming building
or to a building housing a non-conforming use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.127 ADDITIONS, ENLARGEMENTS AND MOVING.
   A building or structure occupied by a non-conforming use and a building or
structure non- conforming as to height, area or yard requirements shall not be
added to or enlarged in any manner unless such addition or enlargement conforms
or is made to conform to all regulations of the zone in which it is located,
except as permitted by the Town Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.128 ALTERATION WHERE PARKING INSUFFICIENT.
   A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in
connection therewith as required by this chapter may be altered or enlarged;
provided, additional automobile parking space is supplied to meet the
requirements of this chapter for such alteration or enlargement. All parking
spaces shall be on the site or adjacent to the site.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.129 RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS.
   A non-conforming building or structure or a building or structure occupied
by a non-conforming use which is damaged by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or
other calamity or Act of God, or the public enemy, may be restored and the
occupancy or use of such building, structure or part thereof, which existed at
the time of such damage may be continued or resumed; provided that, such
restoration is started within a period of one year and is diligently prosecuted
to completion.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.130 ONE-YEAR VACANCY.
   A building or structure or portion thereof occupied by a non-conforming use,
which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied by a non-
conforming use for a continuous period of one year shall not thereafter be
occupied, except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district
in which it is located.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.131 CONTINUATION OF USE.
   The occupancy of a building or structure by a non-conforming use, existing
at the time this chapter became effective, may be continued.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.132 OCCUPATION WITHIN ONE YEAR.
   A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the
building or structure was designed or intended, if so occupied within a period
of one year after the use became non-conforming.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.133 CHANGE OF USE.
   The non-conforming use of a building or structure may not be changed, except
to a conforming use; but where such change is made, the use shall not
thereafter be changed back to a non-conforming use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.134 NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   The non-conforming use of land, existing at the time this chapter became
effective, may be continued; provided that, no such non-conforming use of land
shall in any way be expanded either on the same or on adjoining property; and,
provided that, is such non-conforming use of land, or any portion thereof, is
abandoned or changed for a period of one year or more, any future use of such
land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.135 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following non-conforming structures and uses shall be amortized in
a period not exceeding that stated below, effective from the date of adoption
of this chapter.
      (1)   Trash, junk, debris or similar material shall be removed from any
residential zone within two years.
      (2)   Non-conforming signs shall be removed from any zone in which said
signs are non- conforming within one year.
   (B)   Non-conforming structures or uses not removed within the specified
time, effective of the date of adoption of this chapter, shall be removed by
the town and the costs incurred by the town in doing so shall be billed to the
owner of the property or structure.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 152.150 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   At the time any commercial business or enterprise, or public meeting space
is erected or enlarged or increased in capacity or any commercial business or
enterprise, or public meeting space is established, there shall be provided
off-street parking spaces for automobiles adjacent to the commercial business
or enterprise, public meeting space, or use in accordance with the following
requirements.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.151 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES.
   The number of off-street parking spaces required shall be as follows:
 
Churches or meeting halls         1 parking stall for each 3 seats of maximum
                                  seating capacity
Commercial business or enterprise As determined by Town Planning Commission,
                                  based on nearest comparable standards
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.152 ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   Adequate ingress and egress to and from all commercial businesses or
enterprises shall be provided as follows.
   (A)   Not more than two driveways shall be used for each 100 feet or
fraction thereof of building frontage.
   (B)   No two of said driveways shall be closer to each other than 12 feet
and no driveway shall be closer to a side property line than three feet.
   (C)   No driveway shall be closer than 25 feet from any intersection at any
corner as measured along the property line.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.153 MAINTENANCE OF PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Surfacing. Each off-street parking lot shall be surfaced with a
surface adequate in relation to location and use. Parking lots serving a high
volume of traffic shall be surfaced in such a way to provide a dustless
surface. The parking area shall be graded so as to dispose of all surface water
in a manner approved by the town.
   (B)   Landscaping. Each parking lot shall be adequately landscaped and
permanently maintained.
   (C)   Lighting. Lighting used to illuminate any parking lot shall be
arranged to reflect the light away from adjoining premises and away from street
traffic.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 152.165 PURPOSE OF CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS.
   Certain uses which may be harmonious under special conditions and in
specific locations within a district, but be improper under general conditions
and in other locations, are classed as conditional uses within the various
districts and require conditional use permits for approval.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.166 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as
conditional uses in the district regulations or elsewhere in this chapter. A
conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with conditions
precedent to the original approval of the certificate. No building permit or
other permit or license shall be issued for a use requiring conditional use
without first being reviewed and/or approved by the Town Planning Commission or
the Town Council.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.167 APPLICATION.
   A conditional use permit application shall be made to the town’s Planning
Commission as provided in this chapter. Applications for a conditional use
permit shall be accompanied by maps, drawings, statements or other documents as
required by the town’s Planning Commission.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.168 FEE.
   A $150 fees is required to process any conditional use application in the
town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.169 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The application for a conditional use permit shall prepare a site plan with
evaluations (as may be necessary) for the site being proposed for development.
The plan shall be drawn to scale and show all existing and proposed buildings,
roads, parking and other information that the town’s Planning Commission may
deem necessary.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.170 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   The town’s Planning Commission may recommend approval or denial of the
conditional use permit.
   (B)   In recommending approval of any conditional use, the town’s Planning
Commission shall suggest regulations and conditions which are necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. In recommending approval of a
conditional use permit, the town’s Planning Commission shall find:
      (1)   The proposed use is necessary or desirable and will contribute to
the general well-being of the community;
      (2)   The use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of
persons residing, or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
improvements in the vicinity;
      (3)   The proposed use will comply with the regulations of this chapter;
and
      (4)   The proposed use is in harmony with the intent and purpose of the
town’s Master Plan or that the plan shall have first been amended through
public hearing.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.171 TOWN COUNCIL ACTION.
   Upon denial of a conditional use permit by the town’s Planning Commission,
the applicant may appeal in writing within 30 days to the Town Council. The
Town Council may approve, modify and approve or deny the conditional use
application in a public meeting. In approving any conditional use, the Town
Council shall impose regulations and conditions as are necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare. The Town Council shall follow the same
conditions as stated in §
152.170.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.172 EXPANSION OF A CONDITIONAL USE.
   No structure in which a conditional use is located may expand without the
approval of the town’s Planning Commission and the Town Council. Before
expanding, the applicant shall present to the town’s Planning Commission a
development plan meeting the requirements of §
152.169. No public hearing need be held. However, the town’s Planning
Commission may deem a hearing necessary.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.173 INSPECTION.
   Following the issuance of a conditional use permit for a use which requires
a building permit, the town’s Building Inspector shall approve an application
for a building permit, and shall insure that development is undertaken and
completed in compliance with said conditional use and all other applicable
codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.174 TIME LIMITATION.
   All conditional use permits shall expire within a maximum period of one year
of issuance, unless there shall have been substantial performance toward the
completion of the conditions set forth in the permit. The Planning Commission
may recommend and the Town Council may grant a maximum extension of six months
under exceptional circumstances. In the event that a conditional use permit is
granted on a temporary basis, the Planning Commission may recommend and the
Town Council may issue a permit for six months, with one maximum extension of
six months. A conditional use permit shall be non-transferrable.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.175 REVOCATION.
   A conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with the
conditions imposed with the original approval of the permit and the applicant
shall be so notified of revocation by the town. The permit may be reinstated
upon determination by the Town Council that the cause for revocation has been
corrected and that the applicant intends to proceed according to the plans
approved by the town’s Planning Commission at the time the permit was
originally issued, or as they might have been properly amended by the town’s
Planning Commission from time to time during the period of the conditional use.
Revocation or reinstatement of a conditional use permit is the responsibility
of the Town Council, upon recommendation by the town’s Planning Commission.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 152.190 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the planned unit development is to allow diversification in
the relationship of various uses and structures to their sites, and to permit
more flexibility in the use of such sites. The application of planned
development concepts is intended to encourage good neighborhood, housing or
area design, thus insuring substantial compliance with the intent of the
district health, safety and general welfare, and at the same time securing the
advantages of large-scale site planning for residential, commercial or
industrial development or combinations thereof.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.191 DEFINITION.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, for the purposes of this chapter, shall mean an
integrated design for development of residential, commercial or industrial
uses, or combinations of such uses, in which one or more of the regulations,
other than use regulations, of the district in which the development is to be
situated, is waived or varied to allow flexibility and initiative in site and
building design and location, in accordance with an approved plan and imposed
general requirements as specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.192 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   Planned unit developments may be allowed as a conditional use by the town’s
Planning Commission. No such planned unit development permit shall be granted
unless such development will meet the use limitations of the zoning district in
which it is to be located, including planned unit developments in planned
districts, and meet the density and other limitations of such districts, except
as such requirements may be lawfully modified as provided by this chapter or by
district regulations. Compliance with the regulations of this chapter in no
sense excuses the developer from the applicable requirements of Chapter 151,
except as modifications thereof are specifically authorized in the approval of
the application for the planned unit development.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.193 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No planned unit development shall have an area less than that approved
by the town’s Planning Commission as adequate for the proposed development.
   (B)   A planned unit development which will contain uses not permitted in
the zoning district in which it is to be located will require a change of
zoning district and shall be accompanies by an application for a zoning
amendment; except that, any residential use shall be considered a permitted use
in a planned unit development which allows residential uses and shall be
governed by density, design and other requirements of the planned unit
development permit.
   (C)   The development shall be in single or corporate ownership at the time
of application, or the subject of an application filed jointly by all owners of
the property.
   (D)   The town’s Planning Commission shall require such arrangements of
structures and open spaces within the site development plan as necessary to
assure that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected.
      (1)   Density of land use intensity shall in no case be more than 25%
higher than allowed in the zoning district, except not more than 10% higher in
residential districts.
      (2)   Where feasible, least height and intensity of buildings and uses
shall be arranged around the boundaries of the development.
      (3)   Lot area, width, yard, height, density and coverage regulations
shall be determined by approval of the site development plan.
   (E)   Preservation, maintenance and ownership of required open spaces within
the development shall be accomplished by:
      (1)   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system;
      (2)   Granting to the town a permanent, open space easement on and over
the said private open spaces to guarantee that the open space remain
perpetually in recreational use, with ownership and maintenance being the
responsibility of an owners’ association established with articles of
association and bylaws which are satisfactory to the Town Council; or
      (3)   Complying with the provisions of the Condominium Ownership Act of
1963, UCA Title 57, Chapter 8  1 , as amended, which provides for the payment
of common expense for the upkeep of the common areas and facilities.
   (F)   Landscaping, fencing and screening related to the several uses within
the site and as a means of integrating the proposed development into its
surroundings shall be planned and presented to the town’s Planning Commission
for approval, together with other required plans for the development.
   (G)   The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the
intensity and direction of area or floodlighting shall be detailed in the
application.
   (H)   A grading and drainage plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission with the application.
   (I)   A planting plan showing proposed tree and shrubbery plantings shall be
prepared for the entire site to be developed.
   (J)   The proposed use of the particular location shall be shown as
necessary or desirable, to provide a service or facility which will contribute
to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.
   (K)   It shall be shown that under the circumstances of the particular case,
the proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general
welfare of persons residing in the vicinity of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 152.194 USES ALLOWED.
   Subject to the review and approval of the town’s Planning Commission, uses
allowed in a planned unit development shall be those uses allowed in the
planned district or other zoning district in which the planned unit development
is to be located; provided that, for the purposes of this chapter and
ordinance, multiple-family dwellings may be allowed in a planned unit
development approved in a single-family zoning district; provided, the overall
density of the development does not exceed 10% above the density normally
allowed for single-family dwellings in said district.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.195 GENERAL SITE PLAN.
   Application shall be accomplished by a general site plan showing, where
pertinent:
   (A)   The use or uses, dimensions, sketch elevations and locations of
proposed structures;
   (B)   Dimensions and locations of areas to be reserved and developed for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, parking, public uses such as schools and
playgrounds, landscaping and other open spaces;
   (C)   Architectural drawings and sketches outlining the general design and
character of the proposed uses and the physical relationship of the uses; and
   (D)   Such other pertinent information, including residential density,
coverage and open space characteristics, shall be included as may be necessary
to make a determination that the contemplated arrangements of buildings and
uses makes it desirable to apply regulations and requirements differing from
those ordinarily applicable under this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.196 REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   In order that it may approve a planned unit development, the town’s Planning
Commission shall have authority to require that the following conditions (among
others it deems appropriate) be met by the applicant:
   (A)   The proponents of the planned unit development have demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the town’s Planning Commission that they are financially
able to carry out the proposed project;
   (B)   The proponents intend to start construction within one year of the
approval of the project and any necessary zoning district change, and intend to
complete said construction, or approved stages thereof, within four years from
the date construction begins;
   (C)   That application for planned unit development in planned districts
meet the requirements of such districts, including the requirements of the
general development plan;
   (D)   The development is planned as one complex land use rather than as an
aggregation of individual and unrelated buildings and uses; and
   (E)   The development as planned will accomplish the purpose outlined in §
152.165.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.197 SCOPE OF PLANNING COMMISSION AND TOWN COUNCIL ACTION.
   In carrying out the intent of this chapter, the town’s Planning Commission
shall consider the following principles.
   (A)   (1)   It is the intent of this chapter that site and building plans
for a planned unit development should be prepared by a designer or team of
designers having professional competence in urban planning as proposed in the
application.
      (2)   The Commission may require the applicant to engage such a qualified
designer or design team.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this section that control of the design of a
planned unit development by the town be so rigidly exercised that individual
initiative be stifled and substantial additional expense incurred; rather, it
is the intent of this section that the control exercised be the minimum
necessary to achieve the purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   The town’s Planning Commission may recommend approval or disapproval
of an application for a planned unit development. In recommending approval, the
town’s Planning Commission may attach such recommendations as it may deem
necessary to secure compliance with the purposes set forth in §
152.190. The approval or disapproval of a planned unit development conditional
use permit rests with the Town Council.
   (D)   Landscaping, fencing and screening related to the several uses within
the site and as a means of integrating the proposed development into its
surroundings shall be planned and presented to the town’s Planning Commission
for approval, together with other required plans for the development.
   (E)   The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the
intensity and direction of area or floodlighting shall be detailed in the
application.
   (F)   A grading and drainage plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission with the application.
   (G)   A planting plan showing proposed tree and shrubbery plantings shall be
prepared for the entire site to be developed.
   (H)   The proposed use of the particular location shall be shown as
necessary or desirable, to provide a service or facility which will contribute
to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.
   (I)   It shall be shown that under the circumstances of the particular case,
the proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general
welfare of persons residing in the vicinity of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.198 CONSTRUCTION LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Upon approval of a planned unit development, construction shall
proceed only in accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the
Town Council, and in conformity with any conditions attached.
   (B)   Amendments to approved plans and specifications for a planned unit
development shall be obtained only by following the procedures here outlined
for first approval.
   (C)   The town’s Building Inspector shall not issue any permit for any
proposed building, structure or use within the project unless such building,
structure or use is in accordance with the approved development plan and with
any conditions imposed in conjunction with its approval.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
DESIGN REVIEW
§ 152.210 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of design review is to secure the general purposes of
this chapter and the town’s Master Plan and to ensure that the general
appearance of buildings and structures and the development of the land shall in
no case be such as would impair the orderly and harmonious development of the
neighborhood or impair investment in the occupation of the neighborhood. It is
the intent of this chapter to specify minimum architectural design features in
order to preserve the overall traditional single-family residential features of
the town and to encourage compatibility of any particular development with its
surroundings.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.211 APPLICATION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   All applications for building permits for all buildings and structures
shall be accompanied by architectural and site development plans to scale,
which shall show building locations, landscaping, prominent existing trees,
general treatment, fences, off-street parking and circulation, location and
size of the adjacent streets, north arrow and property lines, drawings of the
major exterior elevations, the building materials, proposed exterior color
scheme, existing grades and proposed new grades. All such drawings and sketches
shall be reviewed by the town’s Planning Commission; except that, the review
and approval of such permits by the town’s Zoning Administrator may be
authorized by the town’s Planning Commission when the application meets all
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   All of the above required architectural and site development plans
shall have been reviewed and approved prior to the issuance of a building
permit.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.212 EXCEPTIONS.
   For buildings and uses covered by conditional use permits design review
shall be incorporated within such conditional use permit and need not be a
separate application; provided, the requirements of this chapter are met.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.213 PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   The town’s Planning Commission shall determine whether the proposed
architectural and site development plans submitted are consistent with this
chapter and with the general objectives of this chapter, and shall give or
withhold approval accordingly. Denial of approval by the town’s Planning
Commission may be appealed to the Town Council, as provided for in the appeals
section of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.214 CONSIDERATION IN REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   The town’s Planning Commission shall consider the following matters, and
others when applicable, in their review of applications.
   (A)   Considerations relating to traffic safety and traffic congestion.
      (1)   The effect of the site development plan on traffic conditions on
abutting streets;
      (2)   The layout of the site with respect to locations and dimensions of
vehicular and pedestrian entrances, exits, drives and wall ways;
      (3)   The arrangement and adequacy of off-street parking facilities;
      (4)   The circulation patterns within the boundaries of the development;
and
      (5)   The surfacing and lighting of off-street parking facilities.
   (B)   Consideration relating to outdoor advertising. The number, location,
color, size, height, lighting and landscaping of outdoor advertising signs and
structures in relation to the creation of traffic hazards and the appearance
and harmony with adjacent development.
   (C)   Consideration relating to landscaping.
      (1)   The location, height and materials of walls, fences, hedges, screen
plantings to insure harmony with adjacent development, or to conceal storage
areas, utility installations or other unsightly development;
      (2)   The planting of ground cover or other surfacing to prevent dust and
erosion; and
      (3)   The unnecessary destruction of existing healthy trees.
   (D)   Considerations relating to buildings and site layout.
      (1)   Consideration of the general silhouette and mass, including
location on the site, elevation and relation to natural plant coverage, all in
relationship to the neighborhood; and
      (2)   Consideration of exterior design in relation to adjoining
structures in height, bulk and area openings, breaks in facade facing on the
street (or streets), line and pitch of roofs and the arrangement of structures
on the parcel.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.215 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The town’s Planning Commission shall decide all applications for
design review.
      (2)   Design approval may include such conditions consistent with the
consideration of this chapter as the town’s Planning Commission or town’s
Zoning Administrator deem reasonable and necessary under the circumstances to
carry out the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   In the case of primary, single-family, mobile, manufactured or modular
home structures the Planning Commission shall impose conditions as follows:
      (1)   The structure shall be on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   The roof pitch of the structure shall be a minimum of 4/12;
      (3)   The distance of the length of the structure shall be no more than
twice the distance of the width of the structure;
      (4)   All construction shall be in compliance with the Uniform Building
Code unless otherwise so designated;
      (5)   The size of the principle structure shall be no less than 1,000
square feet; and
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall give approval for the project.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.216 FINDINGS AND DECISIONS.
   Upon a finding by the town’s Planning Commission or the town’s Zoning
Administrator, when authorized, that the application meets the intent of this
chapter, the design approval shall be granted, subject to such conditions as
are necessary; otherwise, approval shall be denied.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.217 NOTIFICATION OF APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   Upon the granting of design approval, the secretary of the town’s Planning
Commission shall prepare and mail or deliver to the applicant a formal
statement thereof, stating the fact of the grant and any conditions attached
thereof, or the fact of denial and the reasons thereof.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.218 TIME LIMITATIONS ON APPROVAL.
   If construction in harmony with the permit for any development for which
design approval has been granted has not been commenced within one year from
date of notification of approval, the approval shall be deemed automatically
revoked. Upon application, an extension of time may be granted by the town’s
Planning Commission or by the town’s Zoning Administrator, when authorized.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.219 TRANSFER OF APPROVAL UPON CHANGE IN USE.
   Design approval shall be deemed revoked if the buildings erected or the
classification of their use or the classification of the use of land for which
the approval was granted is changed, unless the approval is transferred by the
town’s Planning Commission, or the town’s Zoning Administrator, when authorized
to do so. If the transfer is not approved, a new application must be filed.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.220 CONFORMANCE TO APPROVAL.
   Development for which design approval has been granted shall conform to the
approval and any conditions attached thereto.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.221 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Upon request of the applicant, modifications in the approved plan may
be made by the town’s Planning Commission or the town’s Zoning Administrator
when authorized to do so, if it is found that the modifications will meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The town’s Planning Commission may revoke or modify a design approval
which does not conform to any requirements of the approved permit.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
CONSTRUCTION SUBJECT TO GEOLOGIC, FLOOD OR OTHER NATURAL HAZARDS
§ 152.235 PURPOSE.
   To protect the general public from geologic, flood or other natural hazards
that might be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the town. Any application for a conditional use or building permit
which has, in the opinion of the town’s Planning Commission or the town’s
Zoning Administrator, when authorized, potential soils, earthquake, flood or
other discernible hazards may be required to provide a report addressing such
hazards and possible mitigation measures.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.236 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The report shall be prepared at the applicant’s expense by a
registered or licensed geologist, soils engineer or civil engineer, and shall
show the suitability of the soils on the property to accommodate the proposed
construction, and any discernible flood or earthquake hazards.
   (B)   Whenever a professional expert indicates a parcel may be subject to a
potential or actual hazard, the applicant shall meet the special conditions
required by the town’s Planning Commission or the town’s Zoning Administrator,
when authorized, to reduce or eliminate such hazards.
   (C)   If, based on the report of the professional expert, a hazard exists
which cannot be mitigated to the satisfaction of Planning Commission and which
would continue to pose a threat, existing or potential, to the health, safety
and welfare of present and future citizens of the town, neither a conditional
use permit nor a building permit will be issued by the town for the proposed
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES, MOBILE HOME PARKS
AND MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS
§ 152.250 PURPOSE.
   The intent of this subchapter is to ensure that the present residential
character of the town is maintained and enhanced and, to this end, that mobile
homes are accommodated in the town subject to conditions which will meet this
intent and which will be in accordance with the community goals set forth in
the Master Plan of the town. This chapter is also intended to provide
compatibility between adjacent land uses.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.251 LOCATION AND USE.
   No mobile home shall be located, placed, used or occupied in any district
other than within an approved mobile home park, mobile home subdivision or
where allowed by this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.252 MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES PLACED AS PERMANENT RESIDENCES.
   (A)   Mobile and manufactured homes may be placed as permanent residences in
zoning districts on residential lots so long as they meet all requirements of
this chapter. A building permit shall be required for any permanent placement
of a mobile, manufactured or modular home.
   (B)   Any mobile or manufactured home shall be allowed on a residential lot
outside of a mobile home park; provided that, it meets the following criteria:
      (1)   The standards of UCA Title 58, § 56  1 , the Uniform Building
Standards Act, shall be complied with;
      (2)   The structure shall be placed on a permanent foundation meeting the
requirements of the Uniform Building Code;
      (3)   The structure shall be tied down in a manner which meets
manufacturer’s recommendations, or if no such recommendations are available, as
required by the Building Official;
      (4)   The structure shall meet all zoning district requirements for the
applicable zone;
      (5)   The dwelling must be connected to water, power and wastewater
systems as any other single-family dwelling; and
      (6)   The wheels and running gear shall be removed.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 152.253 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   A mobile home development shall be located only within designated
zoning districts.
   (B)   No part of any park shall be used for non-residential purposes, except
as allowed by planned unit development application and approval.
(Ord. 13, passed 8-4-1986; Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.254 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Mobile home parks may not be constructed unless first approved by the
Town Council, after review of plans for said mobile home park by the town’s
Planning Commission which ensure that the said development will:
      (1)   Be in keeping with the general character of the district within
which the development is to be located;
      (2)   Be located on a parcel of land containing not less than five acres,
or on two or more parcels separated by a street or alley only, and totaling at
least five acres;
      (3)   Have at least five spaces completed and ready for occupancy before
first occupancy is permitted;
      (4)   Meet all standards and requirements effective upon the adoption of
the Mobile Home Park Ordinance of the town;
      (5)   Shall be connected to the culinary water and wastewater facilities
as stated in §
152.112 of this chapter; and
      (6)   Should be developed according to plans prepared by a professional
team. In all cases it is recommended that professional design and other
assistance be obtained early in the program including (as needed) a geologist
or soils engineer, an urban planner, a lawyer, a financial expert or others. It
is the intent of the town that the developer solve problems associated with the
development before approval is given and construction begins. Determination of
qualifications of required professional individuals or firms shall be made by
the town’s Planning Commission.
   (B)   In a mobile home park, the number of mobile homes shall be limited to
two units per acre. The mobile homes may be clustered; provided that, the total
number of units does not exceed the number permitted on one acre, multiplied by
the number of acres in the development given ideal soil conditions. The
remaining land not contained in individual lots, roads or parking, shall be set
aside and developed as parks, playground, service areas for common use and
enjoyment of occupants of the development and of the visitors thereto.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.255 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All mobile homes shall be installed on an approved permanent
foundation, and if necessary shall be skirted with material matching the design
and color of the respective manufactured or mobile home within 60 days of
installation. All skirting shall be kept in place and in good repair at all
times.
   (B)   An overall plan for development of a mobile home park shall be
submitted to the town’s Planning Commission for review. The plan shall be drawn
to a scale no smaller than one connection.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.256 SAFETY, SANITATION AND LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No electrical line shall be allowed to lay on the ground, and all
electrical connections as in this paragraph shall be subject to periodic
inspections by the designated municipal officer for safety purposes.
   (B)   Fire hydrants shall be located within 400 feet of every lot within the
mobile home park area; all skirting of the foundations around each and every
mobile home unit shall be of non-flammable material. The location, manner of
emplacement, connection and other parameters regarding containers of fuel, such
as petroleum and liquified gas, shall be executed in accordance with recognized
industry and government standards regarding hazardous and flammable materials.
The location of such petroleum and liquified gas and/or other related
containers within the mobile home unit shall be expressly prohibited. The
accumulation of litter around or underneath said mobile home unit shall be
subject to periodic inspections by the Municipal Fire Inspector for safety
purposes.
   (C)   Not less than 5% of the area within said mobile home park is to be set
aside for play space, and is to be planted in lawn, or otherwise equipped with
play apparatus for children.
   (D)   The owner/operator of said mobile home park shall provide metal
garbage containers with tight lids, which shall be located and secured in an
area and in such a manner as to prevent littering. Said owner and/or operator
shall dispose of all refuse and garbage accumulated within the mobile home park
at least once a week.
   (E)   The owner of said mobile home shall provide adequate fencing or
screening of the property. Fencing or screening shall be a minimum of six feet
high and shall be constructed of site obscuring materials along the perimeter
of the project.
   (F)   The owner and/or operator of said mobile home shall provide
additional, communal parking for the residents of the mobile home park in the
amount of 0.75 auto parking spaces per mobile home space.
   (G)   All other necessary infrastructure improvements shall be as required
for single-family residential areas.
(Ord. 13, passed 8-4-1986; Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.257 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit to maintain and/or operate an approved mobile home park within the
limits of the municipality shall be issued to any person obtaining a municipal
business license for such a purpose and duly registering with the local board
of health. Said permit to maintain and/or operate a mobile home park may be
revoked by the local health officer upon conviction of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances pertaining to health, sanitation and/or nuisance, and
arising out of the maintenance and/or operation of said mobile home park. The
local health officer is hereby authorized to make regular inspections of said
mobile home park areas for the purpose of health and sanitation.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.258 NOTIFICATION OF NEIGHBORING PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   The application for a conditional use permit to establish a mobile
home park within the town shall include a statement showing that adjacent
property owners have been informed as to the intention of a mobile home park
being established. Applicants for conditional use permits for mobile home parks
are required to give written notification to all property owners within 300
feet of the nearest point of the property involved of the pending action.
   (B)   The written notification should describe the location and nature of
the proposed development. It must inform neighboring property owners of the
opportunity to comment upon the application in a meeting of the Planning
Commission. The time, date and place of the meeting at which the application
will be considered should be noted. Notification may be delivered in person or
by mail. Notification must be accomplished at the applicant’s expense.
Notification must be accomplished at least one week prior to the scheduled
meeting of the Planning Commission at which the application will be discussed.
(Ord. 13, passed 8-4-1986; Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
SOLAR ACCESS PROTECTION AND INCENTIVES
§ 152.270 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the solar access incentives and protection is to
encourage and protect the use of passive and active solar energy systems.
   (B)   It is the opinion of the town that solar energy systems will become an
important contribution to energy production in the near future, particularly in
residential uses.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.271 PROTECTION OF SOLAR ACCESS IN DISTRICTS; RR-1, RR-2, RR-5.
   (A)   No building, chimney, trees, shrubs or other large objects shall be
constructed or placed in such a manner so as to obstruct the sun from reaching
not less than 80% of an existing solar energy system from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00
p.m. on any day.
   (B)   Where an existing solar energy system is in place on an adjacent lot,
no building permit shall be issued by the Building Inspector for a building
that will infringe on neighboring solar access.
   (C)   Where there is question as to whether or not an infringement of solar
access to an existing solar system will take place, the property owner/
developer must prove, to the Planning Commission, before being issued a
building permit that no such infringement will take place, and if such an
infringement does occur after construction, the owner/developer is responsible
for corrective measures being carried out.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000) Penalty, see §
152.999
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.285 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the territory of the town to which this
chapter applies is divided into zoning districts as follows:
   (A)   Rural Residential (RR-1/2);
   (B)   Rural Residential (RR-2);
   (C)   Residential Agricultural (RA-5);
   (D)   Agricultural (A);
   (E)   Open Space (OS);
   (F)   Restricted Development - Overlay Zone (RD); and
   (G)   Community Commercial (CC).
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord., passed - -)
§ 152.286 RULES FOR LOCATING BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
town map, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines and
in the event of change in the centerline shall be construed as moving with the
centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the right-of-way lines
of streets, highways or alleys shall be constructed to follow such right-of-way
lines, and in the event of a change in the right-of-way line shall be construed
as moving with the right-of-way line.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed to follow such lot lines.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (C) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official map shall be determined by the scale
of the map.
   (E)   In case any further uncertainty exists, the town’s Board of
Adjustments shall determine the location of such boundaries.
   (F)   Boundaries of each of the said zones are hereby established as
described herein or as shown on the map entitled “Kanarraville Town Zoning
Map”, which map is on file with the Town Clerk and all boundaries shown thereon
are made by this reference as much a part of this chapter as is fully described
and detailed herein.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.287 SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS TO ALL ZONES.
   No trash, rubbish, weeds, junk, debris or other similar material shall be
allowed to remain on any lot outside of approved containers or any zone after
passage of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000) Penalty, see §
152.999
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, see §
152.135
§ 152.288 ANNEXATIONS.
   All annexed property will come into Kanarraville zoned open space, pending
future changes recommended by the town’s Planning Commission and approved by
the Town Council.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.289 LISTING OF ORDINANCE AND MAP.
   This chapter and map shall be filed in the custody of the Town Clerk and may
be examined by the public subject to the reasonable regulations established by
said Clerk.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
RESTRICTED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY (RDO)
§ 152.300 PURPOSE.
   To provide for protection of property owners in areas of existing zones
which are subject to development constraints as a result of environmental
conditions.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.301 PERMITTED USES.
   No uses are specifically permitted in this zone.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.302 CONDITIONAL USES.
   All potential uses are subject to a special conditional use permit granted
by the town’s Planning Commission.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.303 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Areas falling under the provisions of this section are shown generally
on the official zoning map for the town. Specific boundaries of this district
shall be determined by the town’s Planning Commission.
   (B)   Applicants for special conditional permits within this zone must
present detailed engineering studies as required by the Planning Commission
relating to potential problems of developing these areas.
   (C)   Applicants for special conditional use permits within this zone must
show what measures will be employed to mitigate flood and flash flood dangers
in these zones. Such measures must be developed through consultation with an
engineer, planner, architect and other professionals experienced with
development proposals.
   (D)   Factors to be considered in evaluating proposed uses within the
overlay zone include, but are not limited to: visual disruption of skylines and
vistas; disturbance of natural vegetation and wildlife habitats; location in
relation to flood zones and drainages, steep slopes and rockfall areas; and
other considerations which may have potential adverse consequences for the
health, safety and welfare of present and future citizens of the town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
OPEN SPACE (OS)
§ 152.315 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Open Space Zone is to minimize flooding, erosion and
other environmental hazards; to protect the natural scenic character of areas
not suitable for development; to promote the well-being of present and future
residents of the town; and to ensure the efficient expenditure of public funds.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.316 USE REGULATIONS.
   In the Open Space Zone, no property shall be used and no building shall be
erected or altered so as to be arranged, intended or designed to be used for
other than one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   Livestock grazing;
   (B)   Public or private recreation facilities, parking lots and restrooms
which will not significantly alter the natural form of the landscape;
   (C)   Emergency equipment routes to provide essential emergency services
such as fire control;
   (D)   Single family dwellings; provided that, the applicant can demonstrate
conclusively to the Planning Commission that any hazards and limitations of the
site can be overcome in such a manner as to prevent hazard to life or limb,
hazard to property, adverse effects on the safety and use or stability of a
public way or environment; and
   (E)   Public utilities and transmission lines.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. 07-08-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 152.317 SITE DESIGN REGULATIONS.
   All site design elements are subject to conditional use review and approval
of the Planning Commission and Town Council as outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.318 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 35 feet or two and one-half stories in height.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.319 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS.
 
District Area    Width    Yards in Feet
                          Front Side Rear
OS       20 acre 500 feet 50    30   50
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
AGRICULTURAL (A)
§ 152.330 PURPOSE.
   To promote and preserve in appropriate areas conditions favorable to
agriculture.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.331 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Animals and fowl;
   (B)   Agricultural uses, farming and gardening; and
   (C)   Barns, corrals, pens, coops, machinery sheds and other buildings
incidental to agricultural operations.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.332 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Single-family homes; and
   (B)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to single-family
homes.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.333 MINIMUM AREA.
   (A)   Minimum area in the Agricultural District is 43,560 square feet (one
acre).
   (B)   Minimum area, width and yard and other requirements for approved
single-family home conditional use shall be the same as stated in §§
152.370 through
152.377 of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.334 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   Stables, corrals, barns and chicken coops shall be located at least 50 feet
from the nearest dwelling or public street.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.335 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Exceptions to these regulations are provided in §§
152.095 through
152.114 of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (RA-5)
§ 152.350 PURPOSE.
   To provide for dwellings on large lots on agricultural areas while
maintaining conditions favorable to agriculture.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.351 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Animals and fowl;
   (B)   Agricultural uses, farming and gardening;
   (C)   Barns, corrals, pens, coops, machinery sheds and other buildings
incidental to agricultural operations;
   (D)   Single-family homes;
   (E)   Household pets; and
   (F)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to residential
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.352 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Public utilities, essential services;
   (B)   Home occupation (see §§
152.075 through
152.083); and
   (C)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the conditional
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.353 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings may exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height. No
dwelling shall be less than one story in height.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.354 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
 
District Area   Width    Yards in Feet
                         Front Side Rear
RA       5 acre 100 feet 40    18   40
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.355 SIGNS.
   Signs permitted in the rural residential district shall be limited to the
following:
   (A)   One real estate sign, not to exceed eight square feet in sign area;
   (B)   One residential sign, not to exceed two square feet in sign area; and
   (C)   One home occupation sign, not to exceed three square feet in sign
area.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.356 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Side yard. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
not be less than 20 feet.
   (B)   Rear yard. All accessory buildings shall be located at the rear of and
at least ten feet from the main building and shall have a rear yard of at least
ten feet.
   (C)   Livestock and animals.
      (1)   All livestock or animals shall be housed in enclosed corrals,
stables or other enclosures with open fenced exercise areas.
      (2)   Corrals, stables and other enclosures shall be located no nearer
than 50 feet from any dwelling.
   (D)   Temporary placement of mobile homes. No mobile home, as herein
defined, shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent residential
purposes in any district except within an approved mobile home park and except
as otherwise provided herein. Temporary placement of a mobile home on a
residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use permit which is
subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A temporary conditional
use permit for the placement of a mobile home on a residential lot will be
issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is being constructed for
which a valid building permit has been issued.
   (E)   Temporary placement of recreational coach. No recreational coach as
herein defined shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent
residential purposes in any district. Temporary placement of a recreational
coach on a residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use
permit which is subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A
temporary conditional use permit for the placement of a recreational coach on a
residential lot will be issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is
being constructed for which a valid building permit has been issued.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.357 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Exceptions are provided in §§
152.095 through
152.114 of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
**** RURAL RESIDENTIAL TWO ACRE (RR-2) ****
§ 152.370 PURPOSE.
   To provide for neighborhoods of a rural character for small farms, hobby
farms and large lot residential use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.371 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agriculture:
      (1)   Tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening for personal use; and
      (2)   Animals and fowl for recreational use or family food production for
the primary use of persons residing on the premises, excluding the keeping or
raising of dangerous animals.
   (B)   Single-family homes;
   (C)   Household pets; and
   (D)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the permitted
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.372 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Agricultural business or industry;
   (B)   Public stable;
   (C)   Bed and breakfast inn;
   (D)   Park and playground;
   (E)   Planned unit development;
   (F)   Public buildings;
   (G)   Public utilities, essential services;
   (H)   Church;
   (I)   School;
   (J)   Cemetery;
   (K)   Home occupation (see §§
152.075 through
152.083);
   (L)   Mobile home parks (ten-acre minimum park size); and
   (M)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the conditional
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.373 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings may exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height. No
dwelling shall be less than one story in height.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.374 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
 
District Area   Width    Yards in Feet
                         Front Side Rear
RR-2     2 acre 100 feet 40    15   10
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.375 SIGNS.
   Signs permitted in the rural residential district shall be limited to the
following:
   (A)   One identification sign, not to exceed 16 square feet in sign area;
   (B)   One development sign, not to exceed eight square feet in sign area;
   (C)   One civic sign, not to exceed 16 square feet in sign area;
   (D)   One real estate sign, not to exceed eight square feet in sign area;
   (E)   One residential sign, not to exceed two square feet in sign area; and
   (F)   One home occupation sign, not to exceed three square feet in sign
area.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.376 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Side yard. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
not be less than 20 feet.
   (B)   Rear yard. All accessory buildings shall be located at the rear of and
at least ten feet from the main building and shall have a rear yard of at least
ten feet.
   (C)   Livestock and animals. The raising or keeping of livestock or animals
is permitted on lots of one-half acre in size in this district and subject to
the following regulations: all livestock or animals shall be housed in enclosed
corrals, stables or other enclosures with open fenced exercise areas.
   (D)   Temporary placement of mobile homes. No mobile home, as herein
defined, shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent residential
purposes in any district except within an approved mobile home park and except
as otherwise provided herein. Temporary placement of a mobile home on a
residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use permit which is
subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A temporary conditional
use permit for the placement of a mobile home on a residential lot will be
issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is being constructed for
which a valid building permit has been issued.
   (E)   Temporary placement of recreational coach. No recreational coach as
herein defined shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent
residential purposes in any district. Temporary placement of a recreational
coach on a residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use
permit which is subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A
temporary conditional use permit for the placement of a recreational coach on a
residential lot will be issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is
being constructed for which a valid building permit has been issued.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.377 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Exceptions to these regulations are provided in §§
152.095 through
152.114 of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
**** RURAL RESIDENTIAL ONE-HALF ACRE (RR-1/2) ****
§ 152.390 PURPOSE.
   To provide for neighborhoods of a rural character for home production farms
and large lot residential use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.391 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agriculture:
      (1)   Tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening for personal use; and
      (2)   Animals and fowl for recreational use or family food production for
the primary use of persons residing on the premises, excluding the keeping or
raising of dangerous animals.
   (B)   Single-family homes;
   (C)   Household pets; and
   (D)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the permitted
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.392 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast inn;
   (B)   Park and playground;
   (C)   Planned unit development;
   (D)   Public buildings;
   (E)   Public utilities, essential services;
   (F)   Church;
   (G)   School;
   (H)   Cemetery;
   (I)   Home occupation (see §§
152.075 through
152.083); and
   (J)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the conditional
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.393 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings may exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height. No
dwelling shall be less than one story in height.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.394 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
 
District Area     Width Yards in Feet
                        Front Side Rear
RR-1/2   1/2 acre NA    30    15   10
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord., passed - -)
§ 152.395 SIGNS.
   Signs permitted in the rural residential district shall be limited to the
following:
   (A)   One identification sign, not to exceed 16 square feet in sign area;
   (B)   One development sign, not to exceed eight square feet in sign area;
   (C)   One civic sign, not to exceed 16 square feet in sign area;
   (D)   One real estate sign, not to exceed eight square feet in sign area;
   (E)   One residential sign, not to exceed two square feet in sign area; and
   (F)   One home occupation sign, not to exceed three square feet in sign
area.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.396 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Side yard. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
not be less than 20 feet.
   (B)   Rear yard. All accessory buildings shall be located at the rear of and
at least ten feet from the main building and have a rear yard of at least five
feet and a side yard of at least five feet.
   (C)   Livestock and animals. The raising or keeping of livestock or animals
is permitted on lots of one-half acre in size in this district and subject to
the following regulations: all livestock or animals shall be housed in enclosed
corrals, stables or other enclosures with open fenced exercise areas.
   (D)   Temporary placement of mobile homes. No mobile home, as herein
defined, shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent residential
purposes in any district, except within an approved mobile home park and except
as otherwise provided herein. Temporary placement of a mobile home on a
residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use permit which is
subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A temporary conditional
use permit for the placement of a mobile home on a residential lot will be
issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is being constructed for
which a valid building permit has been issued.
   (E)   Temporary placement of recreational coach.
      (1)   No recreational coach as herein defined shall be located, placed,
used or occupied for permanent residential purposes in any district.
      (2)   Temporary placement of a recreational coach on a residential lot
may be permitted by a temporary conditional use permit which is subject to the
time limitations stated in this chapter.
      (3)   A temporary conditional use permit for the placement of a
recreational coach on a residential lot will be issued only for lots upon which
a permanent dwelling is being constructed for which a valid building permit has
been issued.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. 05-08-14, passed 5-8-2014; Ord. 07-14-
16, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 152.397 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Exceptions to these regulations are provided in §§
152.095 through
152.114 of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.410 PURPOSE.
   The Community Commercial designation is intended to provide for single
family residences, traditional merchandising, home occupations, and retail
establishments that fit within a small-town environment and serve the needs of
the residents. The town designates Main Street for all current and future
commercial properties, except for the one spot zone previously approved .
(Ord. 08-11-16, passed 9-8-2016; Ord. 11-13-25, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.411 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The following permitted uses will be allowed in properties zoned
Community Commercial District:
      (1)   Single-family residence;
      (2)   Home occupations;
      (3)   Small personal service businesses (including, but not limited to:
beauty or barber shops, photography studios, shoe repair, dressmaking shops or
pet grooming);
      (4)   Nurseries and green houses;
      (5)   Museums, art galleries and botanical gardens;
      (6)   Auto service and repair;
      (7)   Hotels and motels; and
      (8)   Vacation rentals (30 days or less).
   (B)   The following conditional uses will be allowed with the issuance of a
conditional use permit depending on location and size of the commercial
property:
      (1)   Delicatessens, bakeries, restaurants, or walk-in eateries;
      (2)   Appliance and computer repair (including, but not limited to,
household appliances, televisions, radios, computers and printers);
      (3)   Homestead, farmstead;
      (4)   Dry camping, tent camping;
      (5)   RV park;
      (6)   Parking lot with amenities; and
      (7)   Wedding venue.
(Ord. 12-12-13, passed - -; Ord. 07-14-16, passed 7-14-2016; Ord. 08-11-16,
passed 9-8-2016; Ord. 11-13-25, passed 11-13-2025)
§ 152.412 RESERVED.
§ 152.413 MAXIMUM DEVELOPMENT INTENSITIES.
   (A)   All commercial (and residential) plans must be engineered and
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission two weeks in advance of the
first meeting.
   (B)   An owner/builder cannot erect a commercial building according to state
law.
   (C)   Because residential and commercial are often spot zoned right next to
each other: commercial buildings are subject to the same setbacks and
restrictions as residential: 30 feet in the front, 15 on the sides and ten in
the rear. Commercial setbacks for corner lots on the sides shall be 20 feet.
   (D)   No buildings will be over two stories in height. Height exceptions for
commercial buildings and accessory buildings are subject to approval by
Planning and Zoning and Town Council bearing in mind scenic vistas and views
not to be obstructed, offences to neighbors. Corner lot main and accessory
buildings must be constructed so as not to obstruct traffic views.
   (E)   Lighting is to be unobtrusive. Lighting used to illuminate any parking
lot or commercial building shall be arranged to reflect the light away from
adjoining premises and away from street traffic. There shall be no up lighting.
Every effort should be made to protect and preserve public safety, employee
safety and the comfort of neighbors.
   (F)   Parking for hotels and motels shall be one space for every sleeping
unit; for restaurants, two spaces for every table, plus one for every 35 square
feet of area, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift, or if not
a restaurant or hotel/ motel, one space for every 35 square feet. All
businesses must provide parking for Americans with Disabilities Act and in
compliance with current ADA standards which are for every one through 25
spaces, one handicap van space; for every 26 to 50 parking spaces, one standard
handicap space, plus one van handicap space. For further ADA standards or
current standards, see ADA Handicap parking spaces.
   (G)   Commercial lots shall have no more than one sign of up to 60 by 50
inches. This can be a free standing sign so long as it does not obstruct
traffic and is not over six feet in height. All signs shall be neighborhood
appropriate.
   (H)   All commercial buildings shall have compaction and over-excavation.
   (I)   All commercial buildings must have sprinkling systems in compliance
with county regulations.
(Ord. 9-14-17, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 152.414 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Minimum area, width and yard requirement shall be determined by compliance
with all provisions of this chapter, the Uniform Building Code and all other
applicable codes adopted by the town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.415 SIGNS.
   Signs permitted in the Main Street district shall be limited to the
following:
   (A)   One construction/development sign per project, during the period of
construction and not more than ten days past the date of completion of the
project. The sign shall not exceed ten feet in height or be greater than eight
square feet in size;
   (B)   One real estate sign, which must be removed not more than ten days
after the sale of the property, not to exceed eight square feet in area;
   (C)   If home occupation, one home occupation identification sign, not to
exceed six square feet in sign area; and
   (D)   If retail or traditional merchandising, not more than two
identification signs, the aggregate total of which shall not exceed 15 square
feet and which shall comply with the following.
      (1)   One of the maximum of two signs may be a pole sign not exceeding
ten feet in height.
      (2)   One of the maximum of two signs may be a monument sign not
exceeding two and one-half feet in height.
      (3)   Two of the maximum signs may be wall signs which must be painted on
or otherwise securely fastened to the building and which may not protrude from
the building to extend over any public right-of-way or more than one foot from
the building surface, whichever is less.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
CONGREGATE LIVING AND TREATMENT FACILITIES
§ 152.430 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning. The
following definitions shall apply to all sections of this chapter and shall
supersede any other definition of the same name contained in §
152.019.
   ADULT DAYCARE FACILITY. Any building or structure furnishing care,
supervision and guidance for three or more adults unaccompanied by guardian for
periods of less than 24 hours per day.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY.
      (1)   A residential facility, licensed by the state, with a home-like
setting that provides an array of coordinated support of personnel and health
care services, available 24 hours per day, to residents who have been assessed
under the state’s Department of Health or the state’s Department of Human
Services Rules to need any of these services. Each resident shall have a
service plan based on the assessment, which may include:
         (a)   Specified services of intermediate nursing care;
         (b)   Administration of medication; and
         (c)   Support services promoting residence independence and self
sufficiency.
      (2)   Such a facility does not include adult day care provided in
conjunction with a residential facility for elderly persons or a residential
facility for persons with a disability.
   BOARDER. A person living in a rented room in a boarding house. The boarding
house operator or member of his or her immediate family who reside on the
premises with the operator, shall not be considered to be a BOARDER.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A portion thereof where, for compensation, rooms are rented
together with meals for not more than 15 boarders who generally do not directly
utilize kitchen facilities. The operator of a BOARDING HOUSE must reside on the
premises of the BOARDING HOUSE. The work shall include compensation in money,
services or other things of value. A BOARDING HOUSE does not include a
residential facility for disable persons or a residential facility for the
elderly. A BOARDING HOUSE does not include a non-residential facility, such as
a rehabilitation/treatment facility, where the primary purpose of the facility
is to deliver rehabilitation, treatment, counseling, medical, protective or
other similar services to the occupants.
   BUILDING, PUBLIC. For purposes of this section only, a PUBLIC BUILDING is a
building owned and operated or owned and intended to be operated by the town, a
public agency of the United States of America, the State of Utah or any of its
political subdivisions. The use of a PUBLIC BUILDING, with immunity, is non-
transferrable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than as
a PUBLIC BUILDING with immunity. A PUBLIC BUILDING referred to as with immunity
under the provisions of this subchapter includes:
      (1)   Properties owned by the state or the United States Government which
are outside of the jurisdiction of the town’s zoning authority as provided
under UCA Title 9, Chapter 10, § 105  1 , as amended; and
      (2)   The ownership or use of a building which is immune from the town’s
zoning authority under the supremacy clause of the United States Constitution.
   COMMUNITY CORRECTIONAL FACILITY. A facility licensed or contracted by the
state to provide temporary occupancy for previously incarcerated persons which
assists such persons in making a transition from a correctional institution
environment to independent living.
   CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION. A prison, jail, juvenile detention facility or
juvenile secure facility.
   DISABILITY. A physical or mental impairments that substantially limits one
or more of a persons major life activities, including a person having a record
of such a problem or being regarded as having such an impairment. The following
definitions are incorporated into the definition of DISABILITY:
      (1)   Disability does not include current illegal use of, or addiction
to, any federally controlled substance as defined in § 102 of the Controlled
Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. § 802, or as defined under UCA Title 58, Chapter 37
2 , as amended;
      (2)   A physical or mental impairment includes the following, to wit:
         (a)   Any psychological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement
or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological, musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including
speech organs; cardiovascular, reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
         (b)   Any mental or physiological disorder, such as mental
retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness and specific
learning disabilities; or
         (c)   Such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech and
hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy,
multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, human immunodeficiency
virus, (HIV), mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction (other than
addiction caused by current, illegal use of controlled substances) and
alcoholism.
   DOMESTIC STAFF. Persons employed or residing on the premises of a dwelling
or other residential facility to perform domestic services or to assist
residents in performing major life activities.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof containing one or more dwelling
units occupied as or designated or intended for occupancy as a residence by one
or more families.
   DWELLING. MULTIPLE-FAMILY. Any building arranged or designed to include
three or more dwelling units, each to be occupied by one family.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. Any building arranged or designed to include only
one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY/DUPLEX. A building arranged or designed to include two
dwelling units, each to be occupied by one family.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any building or portion thereof designated, occupied or
intended as a residence for a family with complete and independent facilities
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Any elementary or secondary school, seminary,
parochial school or private educational institution having a curriculum similar
to that ordinary-given in grades one through 12 in public school systems. The
term EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION for the purpose of this title does not include
post high school educational facilities or educational facilities which include
residential facilities for its students.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION WITH HOUSING. A public or private educational
institution with residential facilities or housing for its students and or
staff.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 60 years or older, who desires or needs to
live with other elderly persons in a group setting, but who is capable of
living independently.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption or
guardianship, or a group of not more than four unrelated persons living
together as a single non-profit housekeeping unit, together with any incidental
domestic staff who may or may not reside on the premises. FAMILY does not
exclude the care of foster children.
   FRATERNITY OR SORORITY HOUSE. A building occupied by and maintained
exclusively for students affiliated with an academic or professional college or
university or other recognized institution of higher learning who are
associated together in a fraternity or sorority that is officially recognized
by such institution and who receives lodging and/or meals on the premises for
compensation.
   HOSPITAL. An institution licensed by the state which provides diagnostic,
therapeutic, and rehabilitative services to individuals on both an inpatient
and out patient basis by or under the supervision of one or more physicians. A
medical clinic or professional office which offers any in-patient or overnight
care, or operates on a 24-hour basis shall be considered to be a HOSPITAL. A
HOSPITAL may include necessary support service facilities such as laboratories,
out-patient units and training and central services, together with staff
offices necessary to operate the HOSPITAL.
   HOTEL. A building designed for or occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of individuals who are, for compensation lodged with or without
meals.
   JAIL. A place of incarceration owned and operated by the county.
   JUVENILE DETENTION FACILITY. A place of temporary detention for delinquent
juveniles, which either is owned or operated by the state or is under contract
with the state.
   JUVENILE SECURE FACILITY. A place of incarceration for delinquent juveniles
which is either owned or operated by the state or is under contract with the
state.
   MAJOR LIFE ACTIVITIES. Functions such as caring for ones self, performing
manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning and
working.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. A facility wherein no persons will be
housed on an overnight basis, and provides services including rehabilitation,
treatment, counseling or assessment and evaluation services related to
delinquent behavior, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, sexual offenders, sexual abuse
or mental health. Associated educational services may also be provided to
juvenile occupants.
   NURSING HOME. An intermediate care/nursing facility or a skilled nursing
facility licensed by the state, for the care of individuals who, due to
illness, advance stage, disability or impairment require assistance and/or
supervision on a 24-hour per day basis. Such a facility does not include an
adult day care facility or adult day care provider in conjunction with
residential facilities for elderly persons or a residential facility for
persons with a disability.
   PRISON. A place of incarceration owned or operated by the state.
   PRIVATE PRISONS. A correctional facility established or operated under a
contract with the state under the provisions of the Private Correctional
Facilities Act, UCA Title 64, Chapter 13C  3 , as amended.
   PRIVATE JAIL. A place of incarceration established or operated under a
contract with the county.
   PROTECTIVE HOUSING FACILITY. A facility either:
      (1)   Operated, licensed or contracted by a governmental entity; or
      (2)   Operated by a charitable, non-profit organization, where no
compensation, temporary, protective housing is provided to:
         (a)   Abused or neglected children waiting placement of foster care;
         (b)   Pregnant or parenting teens;
         (c)   Victims of sexual abuse; or
         (d)   Victims of domestic abuse.
   REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION. A change in any rule, policy, practice or service
necessary to afford a person with a disability equal opportunity to use and
enjoy a dwelling. The following words have the following definitions, to wit:
      (1)   REASONABLE. A requested accommodation that will not undermine the
legitimate purpose of existing zoning regulations notwithstanding the benefit
that the accommodation will provide to a person with a disability;
      (2)   NECESSARY. The applicant must show that, but for the accommodation
one or more persons with a disability likely will be denied an equal
opportunity to enjoy the housing of their choice; and
      (3)   EQUAL OPPORTUNITY. Achieving equal results as between a person with
a disability and a non-disabled person.
   RECORD OF IMPAIRMENT. Having a history of, or having been misclassified as
having a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more
major life activities.
   REGARDED AS HAVING AN IMPAIRMENT. A person is regarded as having an
impairment when:
      (1)   The person has a physical or mental impairment that does not
substantially limit one or more major life activity, but is treated by another
person as having such a limitation;
      (2)   Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one
or more major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others
towards such an impairment; or
      (3)   Has none of the impairments defined in this section, but is treated
by another person as having such an impairment.
   REHABILITATION/TREATMENT FACILITY. A facility licensed or contracted by the
state to provide temporary occupancy and supervision of individuals (adults
and/or juveniles) in order to provide rehabilitation, treatment or counseling
services. Without limitation, such services may include rehabilitation,
treatment, counseling or assessment and evaluation services related to
delinquent behavior, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, sexual offenders, sexual abuse
or mental health. Associated educational services may also be provided to
juvenile occupants.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS. A dwelling unit that is occupied
on a 24-hour per day basis by eight or fewer elderly persons in a family type
arrangement. A RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS shall not include any
of the following, to wit:
      (1)   A facility which is operated as a business; provided that such
facility may not be considered to be operated as a business solely because a
fee is charged for food or for actual and necessary costs of preparation and
maintenance of the facility; and
      (2)   A facility where persons being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse
are placed; a facility where placement is not on a strictly voluntary basis or
where placement is part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation or
treatment in a correctional institution; or a facility which is a health care
facility as defined by UCA Title 26, Chapter 2, § 21  4 , as amended; or a
facility which is a residential facility for persons with a disability.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY. Any residence in which
more than one person with a disability resides and which is:
      (1)   Licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under UCA
Title 62A, Chapter 2  5 , licensor for programs and facilities; or
      (2)   Licensed or certified by the Department of Human Health under UCA
Title 26, Chapter 21  6 , Health Care Facilities Licensing and Inspection Act.
   RESIDENTS, RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. Any building or portion thereof where an
individual is actually living at a given point and time and intends to remain,
and not a place of temporary sojourn or transient visit.
   RETIREMENT HOME. A residential facility designated, occupied and intending
for residents 50 years of age or older where common facilities for cooking and
dining are available to all residents in independent facilities are provided
for living, sleeping and sanitation.
   SHELTERED WORKSHOP. An on-site supervised educational or vocational training
facility for persons with a disability and does not provide any residential
facilities.
   SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS. Charitable lodging or sleeping rooms provided on a
temporary basis (usually on a daily basis) to those members of society lacking
other safe, sanitary or affordable shelter. A SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS may also
include kitchen and cafeteria facilities.
   TRADE OR VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. A post high school educational or vocational
training facility.
   TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITY. A facility owned, operated or contracted by a
governmental entity or a charitable, not for profit organization, where, for no
compensation, temporary housing (usually three to 24 months, but in no event
less than 30 days) is provided to homeless persons, while they obtain work, job
skills or otherwise take steps to stabilize their circumstances. A TRANSITIONAL
HOUSING FACILITY shall not include a shelter for the homeless, a dwelling unit
provided to a family for the exclusive use as part of a transitional housing
program, for more than 30 days, shall not be considered to be a TRANSITIONAL
HOUSING FACILITY.
(Ord. 14-08-04, passed 11-13-2014)
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
3 Cite
4 Cite
5 Cite
6 Cite
§ 152.431 RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITY.
   (A)   Applicability. This section shall be deemed to govern any facility,
residence or other circumstance that meets the definition of a residential
facility as set forth in this subchapter, and the definition of a disabled
person as set forth in this subchapter for the requirements of this section
shall govern the same notwithstanding any other provisions of town ordinance.
   (B)   Purpose. The purposes of this section are:
      (1)   To comply with UCA Title 10, Chapter 9, § 605  1 , as amended; and
      (2)   To avoid discrimination and housing against persons with
disabilities as provided in the Utah Fair Housing Act and the Fair Housing
Amendments Act as interpreted by the courts having jurisdiction over the town.
   (C)   Permitted. A residential facility for persons with a disability shall
be a permitted use in any zoning district where a dwelling is allowed. Each
such facility shall conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   The facility shall comply with all building, safety and health
regulations, the American with Disabilities Act, fire regulations and all
applicable state core standards and licensing requirements, and any standards
set forth in any contract with a state agency.
      (2)   The following site development standards and parking standards
shall be applicable.
         (a)   Each facility shall be subject to minimum site development
standards applicable to a dwelling unit in the zone in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be the same
as the number required for a dwelling with similar occupancy density in the
same zone.
      (3)   No facility shall be made available to an individuals who has
demonstrated, as a resident, that they:
         (a)   Constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals; or
         (b)   Engage in conduct resulting in substantial physical damage to
the property of others.
      (4)   Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person or entity licensed
or certified by the Department of Human Services or the Department of Health to
establish and operate the facility shall:
         (a)   Provide a certified copy of such license to the Town Clerk;
         (b)   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act;
         (c)   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, that no person will remain in the facility whose behavior
has demonstrated a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals,
or whose behavior has resulted in substantial physical damage to the property
of others.
      (5)   The use permitted by this section is non-transferrable and shall
terminate if:
         (a)   A facility is devoted to or used as other than a residential
facility for persons with a disability; or
         (b)   The license or certification issued by the Department of Human
Services or Department of Health terminates or is revoked; or
         (c)   The facility fails to comply with the conditions set forth in
this section.
      (6)   In all residential zoning districts (RR-1/2, RR-2, RA), no
residential facility for persons with a disability shall exceed four residents
not including staff or the family that owns the residence.
      (7)   In a CC Zoning District, no residential facility for persons with
disabilities shall exceed eight and shall be required to obtain a conditional
use permit.
   (D)   Reasonable accommodations. None of the foregoing conditions shall be
interpreted to limit reasonable accommodations necessary to allow the
establishment or occupancy of a residential facility for person(s) with a
disability.
      (1)   Any person or entity who wishes to request a reasonable
accommodation shall make application to the Planning and Zoning Board for a
conditional use permit. Said applications shall specifically articulate, in
writing, the following:
         (a)   The name, mailing address and phone number of the applicant;
         (b)   The nature and extent of the disability;
         (c)   An exact statement of the ordinance or policy from which the
applicant needs a reasonable accommodation;
         (d)   The applicant’s proposed reasonable accommodations;
         (e)   A statement detailing why a reasonable accommodation is
necessary; and
         (f)   The physical address of the property where the applicant intends
on living.
      (2)   When considering wether or not to grant a reasonable accommodation,
the Planning and Zoning Board shall use the following factors:
         (a)   The zoning ordinance applicable to the property;
         (b)   The parking, traffic and noise impact on the neighborhood if the
reasonable accommodation is granted;
         (c)   Wether or not the accommodation will be an undue burden or
expense to the town;
         (d)   The extent to which the accommodation will or will not benefit
the applicant;
         (e)   The extent to which the accommodation will or will not benefit
the community;
         (f)   Weather or not the accommodation fundamentally alters the town-
wide zoning ordinance;
         (g)   Has the applicant demonstrated that the accommodation will
affirmatively enhance the applicant’s life or ameliorate the effects of the
applicant’s disability;
         (h)   Without the accommodation, is similar housing available in the
town for the applicant or group of applicants; and
         (i)   Given the scope of the accommodation requested, what is the
impact on the immediate neighborhood.
      (3)   Written findings and conclusions of the Planning and Zoning Board
shall be sent to the applicant within 90 days.
      (4)   If a request for a reasonable accommodation is denied, such
decision may be appealed to the Town Council.
(Ord. 14-08-04, passed 11-13-2014)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 152.432 RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this code is to comply with UCA Title 10,
Chapter 9, § 605  1 , as amended.
   (B)   Definition. A RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS shall comply
with the following requirements.
      (1)   The facility shall meet all applicable building codes, safety
codes, zoning regulations, the Americans with Disabilities Act and health
ordinance applicable to similar dwellings.
      (2)   Minimum site development standards shall be the same as those for a
dwelling unit in the zone in which the facility is located.
      (3)   The facility shall be capable of being used as a residential
facility for elderly persons without structural or landscaping alterations that
would change the structures residential character.
      (4)   The use granted and permitted by this section is non-transferrable
and terminates if the structure is devoted to any use other than as a
residential facility for the elderly or if the structure fails to comply with
the applicable health, safety and building codes.
(Ord. 14-08-04, passed 11-13-2014)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 152.433 PROTECTIVE HOUSING, REHABILITATION/TREATMENT FACILITIES (BOTH
RESIDENTIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL), TRANSITIONAL HOUSING, NURSING HOMES AND
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any newly constructed, or remodeled facility in a residential zone or
immediately abutting a residential zone shall comply with the following design
standards.
      (1)   All setbacks shall be according to the requirements of the
residential zone in which the facility sits, or if the facility is in a
commercial zone abutting a residential zone the setbacks shall be those of the
abutting residential zone.
      (2)   All required or accessory parking areas shall be located either in
the rear yard area of the lot or behind the main building or garage.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the maximum height restrictions of the individual
residential zone. New building or additional buildings shall not exceed 110% of
the average height of the closest dwellings on both sides of the proposed
structure.
      (4)   In order for new construction to reflect the design and character
of the existing neighborhood, the following standards shall be met.
         (a)   The roof design of the proposed structure or remodel roof shall
be a pitched roof of the same slope as the most common roof slope of the homes
on the side of the block which the building is proposed on.
         (b)   The type of exterior materials shall be of the traditional home
finished materials of brick, siding or stucco. The use of these materials shall
be applied in such a manner as to blend in with the neighborhood where the
building is located and not draw undue attention to the building because of the
materials, their color and combination being uncharacteristic of the other
buildings in the neighborhood.
   (B)   Protective housing, rehabilitation/treatment facilities (both
residential and non-residential), transitional housing, nursing homes, and
assisted living facilities are all permitted uses in areas zoned commercial.
Non-residential treatment facilities shall not be a permitted use in a RR-1/2,
RR-2 or RA Zone, Each permitted facility shall conform to the following
requirements.
      (1)   The facility shall comply with all building, safety and health
regulations, the American with Disabilities Act, fire regulations and all
applicable state core standards and licensing requirements, and any standards
set forth in any contract with a state agency.
      (2)   The following site development standards and parking standards
shall be applicable.
         (a)   Each facility shall be subject to minimum site development
standards applicable to a business in the zone in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be the same
as the number required for an office building with similar size, occupancy and
density in the same zone.
      (3)   Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person or entity licensed
or certified by the Department of Human Services or the Department of Health to
establish and operate the facility shall:
         (a)   Provide a certified copy of such license with the Town Clerk;
and
         (b)   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with application for a
business license, compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Ord. 14-08-04, passed 11-13-2014)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation (as principal, agent, employee or otherwise)
violating, causing or permitting violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punishable by not more than six months in
jail and/or a fine not to exceed $299. Such person, firm or corporation
intentionally violating this chapter shall be deemed to be guilty of a separate
offense for each day during which any portion of any violation of this chapter
is permitted or continued by such person, firm or corporation, and shall be
punishable as herein provided.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Utah Code Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO UTAH CODE ANNOTATED
UCA Cite Code Section
UCA Cite                    Code Section
Title 8, Chapter 5          150.03
8-5-7                       150.03
Title 9, Chapter 10, § 105 152.430
10-2-401.5                  33.001
10-8-14                     50.013
10-8-84                     50.013
Title 10, Chapter 9 et seq. 151.003
Title 10, Chapter 9, § 605 152.431;
                            152.432
10-9-811 et seq.            151.004
10-9a-211                   151.024
10-9a-508(5)(d)             151.035
10-9a-524                   151.006
10-9a-603                   151.006
10-9a-604.2                 151.035
10-9a-604.5(3)(d)           151.067
10-9a-608                   151.006
10-91-604.1(3)(a)           151.035
10-91-604.1(9)(b)           151.035
17-23-17                    151.006
Title 17, Chapter 34        51.021
Title 17A                   151.006
19-4-112                    50.101
20A-2-105                   30.002
20A-3a-201                  30.001
20A-3a-202                  30.001
20A-9-203                   30.002
Title 26, Chapter 2         152.430
Title 26, Chapter 21        152.430
54-2-1                      151.006
56-12-352(4)                111.06
Title 57, Chapter 8         152.193
57-8-13                     151.006
Title 58, Chapter 37        152.430
Title 58, Chapter 56        152.252
58-22                       151.021
59-1-401                    111.08
59-1-402                    111.08
59-2-502                    151.022
59-12-352 et seq.           111.01
59-12-352(1)                111.03
Title 62A, Chapter 2        152.430
63G-7                       50.085
Title 64, Chapter 13C       152.430
72-5-401                    151.006
73-1-15.5                   151.035
73-5-7                      151.006
76-1-402 through 76-1-405   10.040
76-1-501 through 76-1-504   Ch. 10
76-1-601                    Ch. 10
76-2-101 through 76-2-105   Ch. 10
76-2-201 through 76-2-205   Ch. 10
76-2-301 through 76-2-308   Ch. 10
76-2-401 through 76-2-406   Ch. 10
76-3-205                    10.999
76-3-301(1)(d)              10.055
76-3-301(1)(e)              10.055
76-3-302(3)                 10.999
76-3-302(4)                 10.999
76-3-401 through 76-3-405   Ch. 10
78B-22-102                  10.999
78B-22-301                  10.999
109-811 et seq.             151.004
717 et seq.                 151.006
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
                      50.003—
02-13-03  1-9-2003    50.007;
                      50.009;
                      50.010
05-13b-04 5-13-2004   50.012
05-13e-04 5-13-2004   50.011
08-13-09  8-13-2009   50.002
10-08-09  10-8-2009   50.001
09-09-21A 9-9-2021    50.001
08-11-22  8-11-2022   50.004
09-08-22  9-8-2022    50.002
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
12-12-13   - -         152.411;
                       152.412
                       152.253;
13         8-4-1986    152.255;
                       152.258
-          12-12-1991  51.020—
                       51.030
                       152.001—
                       152.019;
                       152.030—
                       152.038;
                       152.050—
                       152.062;
                       152.075—
                       152.083;
                       152.095—
                       152.114;
                       152.125—
                       152.135;
                       152.150—
                       152.153;
                       152.165—
                       152.175;
                       152.190—
                       152.198;
                       152.210—
                       152.221;
                       152.235;
                       152.236;
03-09-2000 3-3-2000    152.250—
                       152.255;
                       152.257;
                       152.258;
                       152.270;
                       152.271;
                       152.285—
                       152.289;
                       152.300—
                       152.303;
                       152.315—
                       152.319;
                       152.330—
                       152.335;
                       152.350—
                       152.357;
                       152.370—
                       152.377;
                       152.390—
                       152.397;
                       152.414;
                       152.415;
                       152.999
                       50.040—
                       50.042;
13-02-03   1-9-2003    50.055—
                       50.063;
                       50.075—
                       50.102
04-10-03A  4-10-2003   152.019;
                       152.125
06-12-03   6-12-2003   152.030
02-12-04   2-12-2004   50.025;
                       50.026
09-09-04-B 9-9-2004    152.019
12-11-08   12-11-2008  50.063
07-08-2010 7-8-2010    152.316
05-12-2011 5-12-2011   30.001
08-11-11   8-11-2011   31.001—
                       31.016
08-15-12   8-15-2012   31.017
09-13-2012 9-13-2012   32.002
05-08-14   5-8-2014    152.396
14-08-04   11-13-2014  152.430—
                       152.433
                       152.396;
07-14-16   7-14-2016   152.411;
                       152.412
08-11-16   9-8-2016    152.410 ;
                       152.411
9-14-17    9-14-2017   152.413
05-14-20   5-14-2020   31.018
                       50.040—
                       50.042;
13-02-03A  8-12-2021   50.055—
                       50.063;
                       50.075—
                       50.102
                       50.055;
                       50.057;
                       50.059;
                       50.060;
                       51.002;
- -        - -         152.002;
                       152.017;
                       152.078;
                       152.100;
                       152.285;
                       152.394
06-08-23   6-8-2023    30.004
07-13-23   7-13-2023   111.01—
                       111.08
05-09-24   5-9-2024    51.027
05-23-24   5-23-2024   110.01—
                       110.09
06-13-24   6-13-2024   30.003
06-27-24A  6-27-2024   150.01—
                       150.07
07-11-24   7-11-2024   50.004
2-13-25    2-13-2025   90.01—
                       90.03
                       151.001—
                       151.008,
                       151.020—
                       151.024;
                       151.035—
                       151.037;
02-13-25   2-13-2025   150.050;
                       151.051;
                       151.065—
                       151.067;
                       151.080—
                       151.084;
                       151.999
                       50.001;
                       50.002;
                       50.004;
                       50.005;
02-13-25A  2-13-2025   50.007;
                       50.010;
                       50.011;
                       50.012;
                       50.090;
                       51.027
02-13-25B  2-13-2025   30.005
04-10-25   4-10-2025   50.011
                       33.001—
10-9-2025  10-9-2025   33.011;
                       Ch. 33 Exhibit A
10-9-25A   10-9-2025   50.002
10-9-25B   10-9-2025   152.115
11-13-25   11-13-2025  152.410;
                       152.411
11-13-25A  11-13-2025  30.004
01-08-26   1-8-2026    30.006
01-08-26A  1-8-2026    51.006
2-26-26    2-26-2026   50.003
3-11-26    3-26-2026   50.013
                      
 
 
