Zoning Resolution for Genoa Township
Delaware County, Ohio
EFFECTIVE MAY 14, 2026
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of Genoa Township, Delaware County, Ohio (the
Board) has deemed it necessary to promote the public health, safety, morals,
and general welfare of the residents of said Township (the Township); and,
WHEREAS, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code Section 519.04 and 519.13, five
(5) persons have been duly appointed by the Board to serve as a Zoning
Commission for the Township, and five (5) other persons have been duly
appointed by the Board to serve as a Board of Zoning Appeals for the Township;
and,
WHEREAS, Zoning Resolutions for the building and land use within the
unincorporated territory of the Township were adopted in 1951 (East) and 1956
(West) in accordance with Section 519 and related sections of the Ohio Revised
Code; were amended in 1969 and 1971, respectively, and were thereafter merged
into a singular Zoning Resolution, on October 20, 1987, effective November 19,
1987, and subsequently amended on numerous occasions thereafter; and,
WHEREAS, the Board adopted a Comprehensive Plan in 1999 and subsequently
updated and revised said Plan in 2008, 2009, 2016, 2019, and 2023: and,
WHEREAS, the Board has amended this Zoning Resolution on numerous occasions
since 1999 in accordance with said Plan per Ohio Revised Code 519.02: and,
WHEREAS, the Board most recently adopted amendments to the October 20, 2022,
Zoning Resolution under the authority of, and in accordance with, the
provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, with said amendments becoming effective:
May 20, 2023; and,
WHEREAS, the Zoning Commission has recommended revisions of the Genoa Township
Zoning Resolution on June 9, 2025, and has submitted such amendments to the
Board under authority of, and in accordance with, the provisions of Section
519.12 of the Ohio Revised Code; and,
THEREFORE, the Board adopts amendments to this Zoning Resolution under the
authority of, and in accordance with, the provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
with said amendments becoming effective: May 14, 2026; and,
FURTHERMORE, all resolutions or parts of resolutions in conflict with this
Zoning Resolution or inconsistent with provisions of this Resolution are hereby
repealed to the extent necessary to give this Resolution full force and effect.
 
APPROVED BY:
Genoa Township Board of Trustees
April 14, 2026
ARTICLE 1: Administration
Section 101: Title
101.01   This Resolution, including the official Zoning District Map (e.g.,
“Genoa Township Zoning Map”, “Zoning Map ”, etc.) made a part hereof as further
detailed Article
5, Section
502, shall be known and may be referred to or cited as the “Genoa Township
Zoning Resolution” (e.g., “this Resolution”, “this Zoning Resolution”).
Section 102: General Authority and Jurisdiction
102.01   Per Ohio Revised Code (ORC) Section 519.02, except as otherwise
provided in ORC 519, in the interest of the public health, safety, and general
welfare, the Township Trustees may regulate by resolution, in accordance with a
Comprehensive Plan , the location, Height , bulk, number of stories, and size
of Building s and other Structure s, including tents, cabins, and trailer
coaches, percentages of Lot Area s that may be occupied, Setback  Building
lines, sizes of Yards, courts, and other Open Spaces, the density of
population, the Use s of Building s and other Structure s, including tents,
cabins, and trailer coaches, and the Use s of land for trade, industry,
residence, recreation, or other purposes in the unincorporated territory of
Genoa Township. Furthermore, except as otherwise provided in ORC 519, in the
interest of the public convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare,
the Township Trustees by resolution, in accordance with a Comprehensive Plan ,
may regulate the Setback lines for, and the Use s of Building s and other
Structure s, including tents cabins, and trailer coaches, and the Use s for
trade, industry, residence, recreation, or other purposes in the unincorporated
territory of Genoa Township and may establish reasonable residential
landscaping standards and residential architectural standards, excluding
exterior building materials, for the unincorporated territory of Genoa
Township. Additionally, except as otherwise provided in ORC 519, in the
interest of public convenience, comfort, property, or general welfare, the
Township Trustees may regulate by resolution, in accordance with a
Comprehensive Plan , for nonresidential property only, the Height , bulk,
number of stores, and size of Building s and other Structure s, including
tents, cabins, and trailer coaches, percentages of Lot Area s that may be
occupied, sizes of Yards, courts, and other Open Spaces, and the Density of
population in the unincorporated territory of Genoa Township. For all these
purposes, the Township Trustees may divide all or any part of the
unincorporated territory of Genoa Township into (Zoning) Districts or zones of
such number, shape, and area as the Trustees determines. All such regulations
shall be uniform for each class or kind of Building or other Structure or Use
throughout any District or zone, but the regulations in one District or zone
may differ from those in other (Zoning) Districts or zones.
   A)   For any activities permitted and regulated under ORC Chapters 1513
(coal surface mining) or 1514 (other surface mining) and any related processing
activities, the Township Trustees may regulate under the authority conferred by
ORC Section 519.02 only in the interest of public health and safety.
   B)   Pursuant to ORC 519.02.B, the Township Trustees may modify
administrative zoning procedures concerning adult entertainment establishments,
defined in ORC 2907.39, as they determine necessary to ensure that the
procedures comply with all applicable constitutional requirements.
   C)   The Township shall retain any and all zoning authority, jurisdiction,
and/or power granted to it by the ORC . The failure to accurately cite or
recite, in whole or in part, any such authority, jurisdiction, and/or power
within this Zoning Resolution shall not be considered, understood, construed,
or interpreted as abandonment or relinquishment of such authority,
jurisdiction, or power.
102.02   The provisions of this Resolution shall apply to all lands, Building
s, Structure s, Sign s, Swimming Pool s, and/or Use s within the unincorporated
area of Genoa Township, Delaware County, Ohio unless otherwise specified herein
or exempted by the ORC or by any other law or governing agency with
jurisdiction or authority over such matter.
102.03   Agriculture , viticulture, dairying, animal/poultry, husbandry, and
other such Use s recognized by the ORC shall be permitted in accordance with
ORC 519.01 and 519.21 as well as the standards set forth in Section
2302 of this Resolution, as may be amended.
102.04   Agritourism shall be permitted in accordance with ORC 901.80 and
519.21(C)(4) as well as the standards set forth in Section
2303, as may be amended.
102.05   Farm Market s shall be permitted in accordance with ORC 519.21(C)(1)
and the standards set forth in Section
2304, as may be amended.
102.06   Public Utilities and Railroads. In accordance with ORC 519.211, public
utilities and railroads shall not be prohibited in respect to the location,
erecting, construction , reconstruction, change, Alteration , maintenance,
removal, use, or enlargement of any Building s or Structure s for the operation
of its business except as otherwise provided for telecommunication towers in
Section
2204 of this Zoning Resolution.
102.07   Governmental Facilities . Any local, state, or federal governmental
Use shall not be prohibited in any Zoning District . Such local, state, or
federal governmental bodies proposing a Use of land or the construction of a
Structure incidental to their governmental functions and responsibilities shall
make a good faith effort to comply with this Zoning Resolution.
102.08   Sale or Use of Alcoholic Beverages. In accordance with ORC 519.211.D,
the sale or use of alcoholic beverages shall not be prohibited in areas where
the establishment and operation of any Retail business, Hotel , lunchroom, or
Restaurant is permitted.
102.09   Outdoor Advertising . In accordance with ORC 519.20, outdoor
advertising shall be classified as a business Use and shall be permitted in all
Districts zoned for industry, business, trade, or lands used for agricultural
purposes. Outdoor advertising shall comply with all applicable provisions
within Article
18 of this Resolution.
102.10   Oil and Gas Production . In accordance with ORC 1509.02, the
permitting, location, and spacing of oil and gas wells and production
operations shall fall under the authority of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources’ Division of Oil and Gas Resources.
102.11   Biodiesel and Energy Production. In accordance with ORC 519.21(C)(2),
biodiesel production , biomass energy production , or electric or heat energy
production where the land on which the production facility is located qualifies
as land devoted exclusively to agricultural use under ORC Sections 5713.30 to
5713.37 for real property tax purposes shall be a permitted Use in all Zoning
Districts .
102.12   Biologically Derived Methane Gas Production. In accordance with ORC
519.21(C)(3), biologically derived methane gas production where the land on
which the production facility is located qualifies as land devoted exclusively
to agricultural use under Sections 5173.30 to 5713.37 for real property tax
purposes shall be a permitted Use in all Zoning Districts so long as the
facility that produces the biologically derived methane gas does not produce
more than seventeen million sixty thousand seven hundred ten (17,060,710)
British thermal units, five (5) megawatts, or both.
102.13   Marijuana Medical or Otherwise. In accordance with ORC 519.21(D),
3780, and 3796, Genoa Township reserves the right to, via this Resolution and/
or a separate resolution, prohibit medical marijuana , cultivators, processors,
and/or retail dispensaries, as well as adult use cannabis operators, from being
located within the unincorporated territory of the township as well the right
to regulate the location of said facilities within the aforementioned area.
102.14   Permanently Sited Manufactured Homes shall be permitted in any Zoning
District where a single-family home is permitted in accordance with ORC 519.212
but are subject to regulation as authorized by the aforementioned code section.
102.15   Solar and Wind Farms .
   A)   Small Solar Facilities shall be permitted in accordance with ORC
519.213 and the standards set forth in this Zoning Resolution, including
Articles
4,
5, and
22, as may be amended.
   B)   Small Wind Farms shall be permitted in accordance with ORC 519.213 and
the standards set forth in this Zoning Resolution, including Articles
4,
5, and
22, as may be amended.
102.16   Amateur radio service communications and structures. In accordance
with ORC 519.214, Genoa Township shall comply with ORC 5502.031 regarding the
regulation of amateur radio service communications and structures.
Section 103: Intent and Purpose
103.01   This is a Zoning Resolution for Genoa Township, Delaware County, Ohio,
adopted and amended pursuant to Chapter 519 of the ORC for the following
purposes, among others:
   A)   To promote and protect the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the present and future inhabitants of Genoa Township while protecting the
property rights of all residents.
   B)   To protect the quality of life through the protection of the total
environment, the prevention of Nuisance s and hazards, and the provision of
adequate light, air, and convenient access to property.
   C)   To ensure the compatibility of land Use s which are either adjacent or
in proximity to each other.
   D)   To promote, ensure, and control the orderly development of all lands
within the Township to its appropriate Use .
   E)   To promote and secure the most appropriate Use of land to facilitate
and provide adequate public and private improvements.
   F)   To conserve and protect the natural resources, scenic areas, wildlife
habitat and the historical and unique natural features of the land.
   G)   To recognize and to protect the right to farm all suitable land in
Genoa Township as further prescribed in Sections
102.03,
102.04,
102.05,
2302,
2303, and
2304 of this Resolution.
   H)   To implement the recommendations of the Genoa Township Comprehensive
Plan .
Section 104: Interpretation
104.01   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
Resolution shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion
of the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare.
   A)   Whenever the requirements of this Resolution conflict with itself, the
stricter, higher standard shall apply. Whenever the requirements of this
Resolution conflict with the ORC , the ORC shall prevail.
   B)   Where this Zoning Resolution imposes a greater restriction than is
imposed or required by other provisions of law or by other rules, regulations,
or resolutions, the provisions of this Zoning Resolution shall control,
provided it does not conflict with the ORC or federal law.
104.02   It is not the intention of this Resolution to interfere with,
abrogate, or annul any resolutions, ordinances, rules, regulations, or permits
previously adopted or issued, and not in conflict with any of the provisions of
this Resolution, or which shall be adopted or issued, pursuant to the Use of
Building or premises and likewise not in conflict with this Resolution; nor is
it intended by this Resolution to interfere, abrogate, or annul any Right-of-
Ways, easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties; subject to
Section
104.01 as may be amended.
104.03   This Zoning Resolution shall be interpreted and administered in a
manner consistent with the United States Constitution and all amendments
thereof, including the First Amendment guarantee of free speech, as well as the
Ohio Constitution, Ohio Revised Code, and any other applicable laws, federal,
state, or otherwise.
104.04   The “Intent and Purpose” (sub)sections of this and all other articles
within this Resolution primarily act as a guide that set forth goals and
objectives rather than a directly enforceable regulation in itself.
Section 105: Construction of Language
105.01   Definitions of words and terms are set forth in Article
4.
105.02   Terms or words shall be construed as follows:
   A)   Singular includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   B)   Present tense shall include the future tense.
   C)   The word “shall” is mandatory; ”may” is permissive.
   D)   “Used for” shall include, but is not limited to, the phrases “arranged
for,” “designed for,” “intended for,” “maintained for,” and “occupied for.”
   E)   “Person” includes entities as well as an individual.
   F)   Unless the context clearly suggests to the contrary, conjunctions shall
be interpreted as follows:
      1)   “And” indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events shall apply.
      2)   “Or” indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply.
   G)   Lists with “including” or similar language are intended to provide
examples and are not exhaustive.
   H)   Specific provisions control over the general ones.
105.03   All times shall be Eastern Time (ET) and in twelve (12) hour format
(e.g., 1:00 p.m.).
Section 106: Separability
106.01   If for any reason any portion(s) of this Zoning Resolution shall be
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or
invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remaining
provisions of this Zoning Resolution, but shall be confined in its operation to
the specific portion(s) of this Zoning Resolution held invalid, and the
invalidity of any portion(s) of this Zoning Resolution in one or more instances
shall not affect or prejudice in any way the validity of this Zoning Resolution
in any other instance.
Section 107: Required Conformance
107.01   Except as herein provided and within Section
117, no Building , Structure , Sign , Swimming Pool , land, or site shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, improved, reconstructed, moved, structurally
altered, used, or otherwise modified, unless it is in compliance and
conformance with all applicable standards of this Zoning Resolution and/or any
valid Legal Approval (s).
107.02   Amendments to this Zoning Resolution shall not apply to any Zoning Map
Amendment or Legal Approval applied for, or granted, prior to the effective
date of the amendment and such situations shall be subject to Article
25, Non-Conformities. Amendments shall apply when:
   A)   A Zoning Map Amendment application is submitted on or after the
amendment’s effective date;
   B)   Legal Approval applications, including Final Development Plan
applications, are submitted on or after the amendment’s effective date; or
   C)   An application submitted on or after the amendment’s effective date
seeks to alter, revise, change, or amend a previously granted Zoning Map
Amendment or Legal Approval , including Final Development Plans. Unless
otherwise stated, amendments apply to applications submitted on or after their
effective date.
107.03   The burden of demonstrating that an application, development, or Use
of land or Structure s subject to this Resolution complies with applicable
review and approval standards or is a legal nonconformity subject to Article
25 is on the applicant, property owner, etc., as opposed to the Township or
other parties.
Section 108: Comprehensive Plan
108.01   Legislative amendments to this Zoning Resolution shall be consistent
with the Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan . The Comprehensive Plan may be
utilized as a guide in the administration of this Zoning Resolution. In
instances of conflict, the Zoning Resolution shall control.
Section 109: Validity of Citations and References
109.01   All article and section citations within this Zoning Resolution shall
be assumed to be referring to this Resolution unless otherwise expressly
stated, implied, inferred, or in any other way made obvious.
109.02   References to the ORC , Ohio Administrative Code (OAC), or any other
acts, laws, and/or plans text external to this Resolution, reflect their status
as of the date of the Resolution’s adoption. Whenever any provision of this
Resolution references such and it is later amended or superseded, this
Resolution shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended section or the
section that most nearly corresponds to the superseded section. Subsequent
amendments, re-numberings, or revisions of this Resolution shall not invalidate
such references.
109.03   Any change in the name, authority, or responsibility of a governmental
or regulatory agency referenced herein or the establishment of a successor
agency shall not affect the validity of this Resolution.
Section 110: Reserved
Section 111: Reserved
Section 112: Township Trustees
112.01   In accordance with the ORC , including ORC 519.16, and this
Resolution, the Township Trustees shall be responsible for:
   A)   Appointment and removal of the Zoning Inspector, Zoning Secretary,
zoning staff, members of the Genoa Township Zoning Commission , members of the
Genoa Township Board of Zoning Appeals , and, if so established, members of the
Genoa Township Architectural Review Board.
   B)   Provisions for a system of zoning certificates and may provide
disbursements necessary for enforcement of this Resolution.
   C)   Establishment of a schedule of fees to defray the costs of
administering and enforcing this Zoning Resolution.
   D)   Consideration of, and adoption, rejection, or modification of, proposed
amendments to this Resolution, including the Zoning Map , in accordance with
ORC 519.12 and Article
26 of this Resolution.
   E)   Consideration of, and adoption, rejection, or modification of, proposed
Final Development Plan s and Final Development Plan amendments as provided in
Article
27.
   F)   Other duties as may be specified within this Resolution.
112.02   It is the intent of this Resolution that all questions of
interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the Township Zoning
Inspector. Appeals from a decision of the Zoning Inspector shall be heard
exclusively the BZA pursuant to Article
3, Section
306 of this Resolution. Further, it is the intent of this Resolution that any
recourse from decisions of the BZA shall be pursued through the courts as
provided by law. The duties of the Township Trustees under this Resolution
shall not include hearing or deciding questions of interpretation and
enforcement, except as specifically authorized herein. This limitation shall
not apply to the administrative review of applications presented to the
Township Trustees for consideration in accordance with this Resolution.
Section 113: Classification of Actions
113.01   The approval of a Zoning Map Amendment shall be considered a
legislative action subject to referendum pursuant to ORC 3519.01.
113.02   The approval or denial of a Final Development Plan , including any
amendment thereto, shall constitute an administrative action.
113.03   The approval or denial of a Zoning Permit , the issuance or
withholding of a Certificate of Compliance , and any other ministerial action
taken by the Zoning Inspector or their designee shall constitute administrative
actions.
113.04   The approval or denial of a Variance or Conditional Use application,
as well as the decision rendered in an Administrative Appeal case, shall
constitute quasi-judicial actions.
Section 114: Administrative Bodies and Duties
114.01   Pursuant to ORC 519.16 and 519.161, the Township Trustees may appoint
a Township Zoning Inspector and assistants as deemed necessary. The Zoning
Inspector shall serve as the primary administrator and enforcement officer of
this Resolution and may exercise reasonable discretion in limited circumstances
to protect the public interest. Township officials and employees may assist the
Zoning Inspector by reporting any new construction , reconstruction, land Use
changes, or suspected violation. Duties of the Zoning Inspector shall include,
but are not necessarily limited to:
   A)   Reviewing all Zoning Permit applications as outlined in Section
115.01 to ensure compliance with this Resolution and maintaining related
records.
   B)   Reviewing all applications for Zoning Map Amendment s, zoning text
amendments, Final Development Plan s, Final Development Plan amendments,
Variance s, Conditional Use s, and Administrative Appeals and reporting
findings to the appropriate body.
   C)   Conducting site inspections within the purview of applicable laws and
legal guidance to ensure the zoning-related activities conform to applicable
Legal Approvals.
   D)   Issuing written notice of zoning violations and ordering corrective
action when sufficient evidence of non-compliance exists, subject to legal
guidance.
   E)   Ordering discontinuance of unlawful land Use s, Building s, or
Structure s in accordance with the provisions of the ORC .
   F)   Ordering removal of illegal Building s or Structure s or illegal
additions or structural Alterations in accordance with the provisions of the
ORC .
   G)   Reviewing subdivision plats and lot splits submitted to the Delaware
County Regional Planning Commission to determine if the plat or lot split
conforms to applicable provisions of this Resolution.
   H)   Maintaining records regarding the administration and enforcement of
this Zoning Resolution in accordance with the Township’s Public Records Policy
and the Township’s Records Retention Schedule in effect.
   I)   Providing reports to the Zoning Commission , Board of Zoning Appeals ,
and/or Township Trustees regarding enforcement and administrative activities.
   J)   Interpreting and making administrative determinations regarding this
Zoning Resolution, subject to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals as set
forth in Article
3, unless reserved for another body.
   K)   Establishing and amending administrative procedures, forms, schedules,
and other such ministerial items necessary for lawful administration subject to
Township Trustees review. Zoning fee schedules shall require Township Trustees
approval.
   L)   Consulting with legal counsel, as needed, regarding zoning
administration and enforcement.
   M)   Exercising all authority expressly granted by this Zoning Resolution.
   N)   Delegating duties to authorized personnel assisting with zoning
administration and enforcement.
   O)   Managing resources allocated by the Township Trustees for zoning
administration and enforcement.
   P)   Performing other duties or responsibilities as prescribed by this
Zoning Resolution or the Township Trustees .
114.02   To assist in administrating the Zoning Resolution, pursuant to ORC
519.16, the Township Trustees shall appoint a Zoning Secretary responsible for
maintaining zoning records, verifying application information, processing
required public notices, recording the minutes of the Zoning Commission and
Board of Zoning Appeals , assisting the Zoning Inspector, and performing other
related duties as directed by the Township Trustees . The Township Fiscal
Officer may serve as the Zoning Secretary and may receive compensation for such
services in addition to other compensation allowed by law.
114.03   Whenever a provision appears requiring the Zoning Inspector or any
other official working for or under the Township Trustees to perform an act or
duty, that provision shall be construed as authorizing the delegation of such
responsibility to subordinates, unless the provisions herein this Resolution or
applicable law specify otherwise.
Section 115: Zoning Permit s and Certificates of Compliance
115.01   No person shall establish or change any Use of land, nor shall they
locate, erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge, or structurally alter any
Building , Structure , Sign , and/or Swimming Pool within Genoa Township,
without first obtaining a Zoning Permit , subject to the following:
   A)   No Zoning Permit shall be issued unless the plans for the proposed
project fully comply with the provisions of this Resolution except where the
Zoning Inspector receives a written order from the BZA deciding an appeal, a
Variance , or Conditional Use .
   B)   A Zoning Permit shall be required for all Dwelling s, Principal
Structure s and Use s, Accessory Structures and Use s, Sign s, Swimming Pool s,
and Temporary Structure s and Use s unless otherwise exempted within this
Resolution.
   C)   A Zoning Permit shall not be required when any such item which has been
permitted or is otherwise legally non-conforming is being repaired or replaced
in kind unless otherwise specified within this Resolution.
   D)   A Zoning Permit shall not be required for certain items expressly
exempted within Section
117.
   E)   For permitting purposes, any project that results in the removal and
subsequent replacement, to any extent, of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
gross square footage of an existing Structure , shall be considered a new build
rather than an alteration . Such a project shall require a Zoning Permit and
shall comply with all current provisions of this Zoning Resolution, subject to
the applicable provisions of Article
25, Non-Conformities.
   F)   The Zoning Inspector shall retain the right to interpret whether a
Zoning Permit is required; however, such a decision shall be subject to appeal
to the BZA pursuant to Article
3, Section
306.
   G)   Property owners, applicants, contractors, and the like shall be
responsible for determining the exact locations of Lot Lines to ascertain no
encroachments upon another Lot . The issuance of a Zoning Permit by the Genoa
Township Development & Zoning Office does not certify the location of Lot Lines
.
115.02   Application for Zoning Permit - All Zoning Permit applications can be
obtained from the Development and Zoning Office and shall be filled out
completely prior to submission. Applications that fail to include all required
components will be considered administratively incomplete and subject to
rejection. The Township reserves the right to request revisions of submitted
materials for the purposes of demonstrating compliance, correction, accuracy,
transparency, clarification, documentation, cross-referencing, administration,
and/or enforcement. The following shall be provided as part of the application,
subject to the discretion of the Zoning Inspector:
   A)   Plans, information, materials, etc., necessary to demonstrate full
compliance with this Zoning Resolution and any applicable Legal Approval (s) in
accordance with the provisions of such.
   B)   Plans, information, materials, etc., required by any application form.
   C)   Valid authorization from the Delaware County Health Department or Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency for on-site wastewater disposal, where
applicable.
   D)   Valid authorization from the Delaware Soil and Water Conservation
District to encroach upon a drainage easement, where applicable.
   E)   Anything deemed necessary by the Zoning Inspector or their assignee to
properly administer this Zoning Resolution, including any applicable Legal
Approval (s).
   F)   A fee as established by the Township Trustees .
115.03   Processing of Zoning Permit s.
   A)   Within thirty (30) days after of receiving an administratively complete
application as determined by the Zoning Inspector or their designee, the
Development and Zoning Department shall either approve or disapprove the
application in accordance with this Resolution. If the application is approved,
the Zoning Inspector or authorized staff shall issue a Zoning Permit and
provide the applicant with either a copy of the approved permit or notice that
the application was denied. The original application shall be retained on file
by the Development and Zoning Department.
      1)   Construction authorized by a Zoning Permit shall begin within one
(1) year of issuance of the permit’s issuance. If construction does not begin
within that period, the Permit becomes invalid and must be renewed.
      2)   The ground Story framework, including structural components of any
second floor shall be completed within eighteen (18) months after Permit
issuance unless the project or Building was originally designed to be phased or
exceed eighteen (18) months in which the Zoning Inspector may authorize an
extended schedule. If required progress is not made within the applicable time
frames, the Permit becomes invalid and must be renewed.
      3)   Nothing in this Resolution shall require change to the plans,
construction , size, or designated Use of any lawful Building , Structure ,
Sign , or Swimming Pool permitted prior to the effective date of this
Resolution. When a change to such is proposed:
         a)   The Zoning Inspector may require an affidavit or similar
documentation verifying that the original intended Use of such term(s) has not
changed.
         b)   The ground Story framework, including structural components of
the second floor, shall be completed within one (1) year and the entire
improvement completed within two (2) years after the effective date of this
Resolution or its applicable amendments, subject to Section
115.03.C. Failure to meet these timeframes voids the protection provided by
this Section.
   B)   Pursuant to ORC 511.01, in the event an application involves land
within three hundred (300) feet of the centerline of a proposed new highway or
a highway for which changes are proposed as described in the certification of
local officials by the Director of the Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
or any land within a radius of five hundred (500) feet from the point of
intersection of said centerline with any public road or highway, the Zoning
Inspector shall give notice by registered mail to the Director of ODOT that
they shall not issue a Zoning Permit for one hundred twenty (120) days from the
date the notice is received by the Director of ODOT . If the Director of ODOT
notifies the Zoning Inspector that they shall proceed to acquire the land
needed, then the Zoning Inspector shall refuse to issue the Zoning Permit . If
the Director of ODOT notifies the Zoning Inspector that acquisition at this
time is not in the public interest or upon the expiration of the one hundred
twenty (120) day period or any extension thereof agreed upon by the Director of
ODOT and the property owner, the Zoning Inspector shall, if the application is
in conformance with all provisions of this Resolution, issue the Zoning Permit
.
   C)   When other jurisdiction permits or licenses are required, the Zoning
Inspector may request proof of such approval prior to issuing a Zoning Permit
or Certificate of Zoning Compliance .
   D)   Should the Zoning Inspector or their designee determine an application
is administratively incomplete, written notice to the applicant along with an
explanation of the application’s deficiencies shall be provided within thirty
(30) days of submittal. The Township may cease processing and reviewing the
application until the deficiencies are corrected to its satisfaction.
      1)   Should an applicant fail to resubmit a complete application within
sixty (60) days of notice being provided pursuant to Section
115.03.D, the Township may elect to not review the incomplete application. In
such case, the applicant’s original application fee shall be forfeited, the
incomplete application deemed withdrawn, no reconsideration of an incomplete
application shall occur, and a new application subject to Section
115 and this Resolution shall be required for the project to proceed. The new
application shall meet the standards in effect at the time the application is
resubmitted.
   E)   If any substantive false or misleading information is submitted or
supplied by an applicant on an application, that application may be rejected
pursuant to Section
115.03.D or denied.
115.04   Certificate of Zoning Compliance.
   A)   A Certificate of Zoning Compliance or Temporary Certificate of Zoning
Compliance shall be obtained prior to occupancy of any newly constructed
Principal Building , except where alterations or additions are otherwise
addressed within this Resolution.
      1)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to require a
Certificate of Occupancy or Temporary Certificate of Occupancy for any other
Building , Structure , Sign , Swimming Pool , Use , improvement, activity, or
condition requiring a Zoning if deemed necessary to verify compliance with this
Resolution.
      2)   The Zoning Inspector may require supplemental documentation,
information, and/or evidence necessary to confirm zoning compliance of any
Building , Structure , Sign , Swimming Pool , Use , improvement, activity, or
property condition. Such documentation may include, but is not limited to,
certified pin location surveys, foundation surveys, as-built surveys, and
mortgage location surveys.
   B)   A Temporary Certificate of Zoning Compliance may be issued by the
Zoning Inspector for a period not exceeding eighteen (18) months during
Alterations or partial occupancy of a Building pending its completion.
115.05   The Zoning Inspector shall maintain records of all Zoning Permit s and
Certificates of Zoning Compliance and provide copies upon a valid public
records request to any person in accordance with Township policies.
115.06   Failure to obtain a Zoning Permit or any type of Certificate of Zoning
Compliance prior to commencing any required work, Use , or occupancy shall
require the submission of a late application fee, if such fee has been
established by the Township Trustees . Such failure shall also constitute a
violation of this Resolution and is subject to enforcement and penalties
pursuant to Section
116.
115.07   Conformance. Zoning Permit s or Certificates of Zoning Compliance
issued based on plans and applications approved by the Zoning Inspector
authorize only the Use and arrangement shown in such approved plans and
applications or approved amendments.
   A)   Any change to the approved Zoning Permit requires the filing of an
amendment, subject to Sections
114 and
115.01 –
115.06. An immediate late application fee may be imposed for failure to do so.
   B)   Any application for a project where the Zoning Permit has expired shall
meet the zoning standards in effect at the time the application is resubmitted.
   C)   Any Use , arrangement, or construction that deviates from the approved
plans or amendments shall be deemed a violation of this Resolution and is
subject to enforcement and penalties pursuant to Section
116.
   D)   If any substantive false or misleading information is found to have
been submitted that leads to the issuance of a Zoning Permit or any type of
Certificate of Zoning Compliance , the Zoning Inspector may revoke the Zoning
Permit ; rendering anything constructed under said document in violation of
this Resolution and subject to enforcement pursuant to Section
116.
Section 116: Enforcement
116.01   Pursuant to ORC 519.23 and 519.24, no Building , Structure , Sign , or
Use shall be established, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed,
enlarged, changed, maintained, or occupied in violation of this Zoning
Resolution, or amendment thereto. Each day a violation continues constitutes a
separate offense, regardless of whether additional notices or affidavits are
issued. The Delaware County Prosecuting Attorney, the Zoning Inspector, or any
adjacent or neighboring property owner specially damaged by such violation may,
in addition to other remedies provided by law, may institute an injunction,
mandamus, abatement, or any other appropriate legal action to prevent, enjoin
or remedy the violation. The Township Trustees may employ special counsel to
represent it in any enforcement proceedings. Violations are subject to remedies
and penalties identified within ORC 519.99, as amended.
116.02   Any applications for a Certificate of Zoning Compliance , Zoning
Permit , Conditional Use Permit , Variance , Sign permit, Temporary Use permit,
Zoning Map Amendment , Planned Development , amendment, or notice of appeal or
requests for official transcripts of hearings shall be accompanied by the
applicable fee established by resolution of the Township Trustees . No fee is
required for applications filed, or requests submitted by, any public schools
or government agencies for construction of a Government Facility. Fees imposed
under this Resolution are intended to partially offset , the administrative
costs associated with zoning review, including technical evaluations,
publishing, , and/or mailing notices, compensation of BZA or Zoning Commission
members for attendance, and other related administrative expenses. Fees are
non-refundable unless otherwise authorized by the Township Trustees .
116.03   The omission of any enforcement powers, remedy, penalty, fine or fee
authorized by law, including those specified in the ORC , shall not be
construed as a prohibiting its use. Genoa Township, the Township Trustees , the
Genoa Township Zoning Inspector, and any other legally authorized individuals,
irrespective of whether such powers are expressly sated in this Resolution.
Section 117: Exemptions from Zoning Permit s
117.01   General Provisions.
   A)   Unless otherwise specified within this Resolution or an applicable
Legal Approval , the following items are generally exempt from obtaining a
Zoning Permit . These exemptions shall not:
      1)   Exempt any item or activity from compliance with all other
applicable provisions of this Resolution;
      2)   Authorize placement of any item within a Right-of-Way ; or
      3)   Limit the authority of the Township Trustees to address Nuisance s
or take other lawful action.
   B)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to determine whether a
Zoning Permit is required. Such determinations may be appealed to the Board of
Zoning Appeals pursuant to Article
3.
117.02   Exempt Items, Organized by Category, include the following:
   A)   Lighting, Décor, and Small Aesthetic Features:
      1)   Accent lighting, coach lights, and similar decorative or
architectural lighting not otherwise regulated in this Resolution.
      2)   Artwork, décor, furniture, statues, and fountains, unless:
         a)   Meeting the definition of a Structure and exceeding six (6) feet
in Height ; or
         b)   Meeting the definition of Junk , Junk Vehicle , Sign , or
Swimming Pool .
      3)   String lights, bird or bat houses, feeders, portable fountains, bird
baths, and similar small decorative features.
      4)   Flags and flagpoles, subject to applicable provisions of Article
18.
      5)   Outdoor speakers, air fresheners, repellants, traps, and similar
items not meeting the definition of a Building or Structure and not otherwise
regulated.
   B)   Small Accessory Structures and Features:
      1)   Accessory Buildings and Structure s meeting the parameters of
Article
16, Section
1609.
      2)   Decorative piers, columns, and posts not exceeding eighteen (18)
inches in width or depth and six (6) feet in Height and not attached to any
other Structure .
      3)   Portable animal coops, shelters, hives, and dog houses that do not
meet the definition of a Building , do not function as an Animal Park or
commercial Kennel , and that do not house dangerous wild animals pursuant to
Article
16, Section
1617.
   C)   Agricultural Use s:
      1)   Agriculture , Agritourism , and Farm Market s meeting the parameters
set forth in Article
23.
   D)   Governmental, Legal, and Unregulated Items:
      1)   Items expressly exempted by this Resolution, an applicable Legal
Approval , or the Ohio Revised Code, including Governmental Facilities.
      2)   Items, improvements, or Use s not expressly regulated or prohibited
by this Resolution or an applicable Legal Approval .
   E)   Pedestrian, Mobility, and Access Features:
      1)   Benches, bicycle racks, handrails, accessibility ramps, and similar
pedestrian-oriented amenities not meeting the definition of a Building .
      2)   Sidewalks, paths, trails, and other pedestrian ways.
   F)   Walls, Fences, and Boundary Features:
      1)   Fences and walls two (2) feet or less in Height ; stacked paver
walls not functioning as Retaining Wall s.
      2)   Fences surrounding tennis courts, basketball courts, or similar
facilities, provided they:
         a)   are constructed of chain-link, iron, vinyl or similar material;
         b)   are set back at least twenty (20) feet from any Front Lot Line ;
         c)   are set back at least ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot
Line ; and
         d)   are not otherwise required by this Resolution.
   G)   Driveways, Drainage, Earthwork, and Ground-Level Improvements:
      1)   Drainage infrastructure or tiles as well as driveways, basins,
berms, bridges, culverts, drains, ditches, driveways, embankments, grading,
gutters, mounds, rain barrels, or swales subject to all other applicable
regulations.
      2)   Residential driveways, driveway aprons, and parking areas compliant
with this Resolution.
      3)   Patios, boardwalks, promenades, sports courts , sports rinks, and
similar improvements constructed at grade or less than one (1) foot in height.
   H)   Recreation and Sporting Items:
      1)   Grass, dirt, or sand recreational or sporting fields not used for
commercial purposes.
      2)   Non-permanent recreational or sporting equipment including deer
stands, hunting blinds, playground equipment, playhouses, nets, bleachers,
swing sets, trampolines, treehouses, and similar items.
      3)   Permanently installed basketball hoops and other incidental, non-
commercial improvements.
   I)   Temporary, Portable, or Seasonal Items:
      1)   Certain Temporary Use s, and private garage , estate, and yard
sales, meeting Article
24, Section
2403.
      2)   Tents, cabanas, and similar portable shelters not meeting the
definition of a Structure or erected with a regulated Temporary Use .
      3)   Inflatable items not permanently affixed to the ground, including
inflatable Swimming Pool s; excluding Inflatable  Sign s prohibited by this
Resolution.
      4)   Portable grills, fire pits, torches, and similar seasonal or
temporary items.
   J)   Utility, Mechanical , and Underground Items:
      1)   Telecommunication Towers, Solar Facilities, and Wind Farms meeting
Article
22 parameters.
      2)   Propane tanks and Mechanical structures meeting Article
16, Section
1609.
      3)   Underground improvements not qualifying as a Sign , Structure , or
Swimming Pool , including electrical lines, invisible fences, plumbing, septic
systems, storm shelters, irrigation systems, wells, and similar items.
      4)   Waste, composting, and recycling receptacles that do not meet the
definition of a Portable Storage Unit or Structure .
   K)   Landscaping , Plantings, and Grounds Features:
      1)   Landscape features and amenities including:
         a)   at-grade or raised garden beds;
         b)   planting tables or potting benches six (6) feet or less in
height;
         c)   boulders; rock gardens; rain gardens;
         d)   ponds and Water Impoundments not meeting the definition of
Swimming Pool ;
         e)   plant trimming or removal not prohibited by a Legal Approval .
   L)   Repairs, Replacements, and Interior Work:
      1)   Repair or replacement in-kind of improvements constructed under a
valid Zoning Permit or otherwise legally non-conforming, per Article
25.
      2)   Roof repairs and interior renovations occurring entirely within a
Structure , except window wells regulated under Article
16, Section
1608.04.
   M)   Home Occupations meeting certain parameters as set forth in Article
16, Section
1618.
   N)   Sign s meeting certain parameters as further Set forth in Article
18, Sections
1802 and
1803.
ARTICLE 2: Responsibilities of the Zoning Commission
Section 201: Township Zoning Commission
201.01   The Township Trustees shall establish a Zoning Commission , in
accordance with ORC 519.04, consisting of five (5) citizens of the Township
appointed by the Township Trustees . Up to two (2) additional citizens may be
appointed as alternates. No member or alternate may concurrently serve as a
member of the Township Trustees , BZA, or Architectural Review Board (if so
established).
201.02   Terms shall be arranged so that the term of one member expires each
year. Each member shall serve until their successor is appointed and qualified.
201.03   Pursuant to ORC 519.04.B, members of the Zoning Commission shall be
removable for nonperformance of duty, misconduct in office, or other cause by
the Township Trustees , upon written charges being filed with the Township
Trustees , after a public hearing has been held regarding the charges, and
after a copy of the charges has been served upon the member so charged at least
ten (10) days before the hearing, either personally, by registered mail or by
leaving the copy at the member’s usual place of residence. The hearing shall
occur within sixty (60) days after the charges are filed. The member shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and answer the charges. Upon the approval of a
majority of the Township Trustees , the member may be suspended from
participating as a member of the Zoning Commission during the period of up to
sixty (60) days before the pending hearing on the removal. Vacancies shall be
filled by the Township Trustees and shall be for the unexpired term. A
suspension authorized by this section is not a vacancy for purposes of this
section. The decision of the Township Trustees regarding the suspension or
removal may be appealed under ORC 2506.
201.04   The Zoning Commission shall elect its own officers annually and adopt
rules for the conduct of its affairs consistent with this Resolution (i.e.,
Rules of Procedure). The Commission shall meet as needed, but not less than
quarterly at the call of the Chair or as determined by the Zoning Commission .
The Chair, or Acting Chair, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public.
201.05   The Zoning Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings and
records of all examinations and other official actions. All of which shall be
public record.
201.06   The Zoning Commission shall act by resolution or motion. A majority
vote of a quorum of Zoning Commission members shall be necessary to pass any
resolution or motion, as well as to recommend the approval, disapproval, or
modification of any proposed amendment to this Resolution. In the case of the
latter, such actions shall be forwarded to the Township Trustees unless
otherwise provided in this Resolution.
201.07   The Zoning Commission shall possess all powers and authorities granted
by the ORC , including the authority to initiate proposed amendments to this
Resolution and/or Zoning Map and make recommendations to the Township Trustees
in accordance with Article
26 or Article
27. All such actions shall follow applicable provisions of the ORC and this
Resolution.
201.08   The Zoning Commission shall also review all proposed Preliminary
Development Plan Text s, Final Development Plan s, and Final Development Plan
amendments and make recommendations to the Township Trustees in accordance with
Article
27 and ORC 519.05. The Zoning Commission shall have decision-making authority
regarding Final Development Plan amendments deemed by the Commission to be
minor amendments in accordance with the provisions of this Resolution, as
further described in Article
27.
ARTICLE 3: Responsibilities of the Board of Zoning Appeals
Section 301: Board of Zoning Appeals
301.01   The Township Trustees shall establish a Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA),
in accordance with ORC 519.13, consisting of five (5) residents of the Township
appointed by the Township Trustees . Up to two (2) additional alternates may be
appointed. No member or alternate may concurrently serve as a member of the
Township Trustees, Zoning Commission , or Architectural Review Board (if so
established).
301.02   Terms shall be arranged so that the term of one member expires each
year. Each member shall serve until their successor is appointed and qualified.
301.03   Pursuant to ORC 519.13.B, members of the Board of Zoning Appeals may
be removable for nonperformance of duty, misconduct in office, or other cause
by the Township Trustees , upon written charges being filed with the Township
Trustees, after a public hearing has been held regarding the charges, and after
a copy of the charges has been served upon the member so charged at least ten
(10) days before the hearing, either personally, or by registered mail, or by
leaving the copy at the member’s usual place of residence. The hearing shall
occur within sixty (60) days after the charges are filed. The member shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and answer the charges. Upon the approval of a
majority of the Township Trustees , the member may be suspended from
participating as a member of the Board of Zoning Appeals during the period of
up to sixty (60) days before the pending hearing on the removal. The decision
of the Township Trustees regarding the suspension or removal may be appealed
under ORC 2506. Vacancies shall be filled by resolution of the Township
Trustees and shall be for the unexpired term. A suspension authorized by ORC
519.04 is not a vacancy for the purposes of this section.
301.04   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt rules necessary for the
conduct of its affairs consistent with this Resolution (i.e., Rules of
Procedure). Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chair or as otherwise
determined by the BZA. The Chair, or in their absence the Acting Chair, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
301.05   All meetings shall be open to the public. The BZA shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, including the vote of each member upon question or if
indicate of absence/non-voting, and its examinations and other official
actions. All such records shall be public records and shall be filed in the
office of the BZA.
301.06   Pursuant to ORC 519.14 and Sections
302 –
307 of this Resolution, the BZA has the following specific responsibilities:
   A)   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of ORC 519.02 to 519.25, or of any resolution
adopted pursuant thereto.
   B)   Authorize, upon appeal, in specific cases, such Variance from the terms
of the Zoning Resolution as will not be contrary to the public interest, where,
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the resolution will
result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of the resolution shall
be observed and substantial justice done.
   C)   Grant conditional zoning certificates (i.e., Conditional Use Permits )
for the use of land, Building s, or other Structure s if such certificates for
specific Use s are provided for in the Zoning Resolution. If the BZA considers
conditional zoning certificates for activities that are permitted and regulated
under ORC 1514 or activities that are related to making finished aggregate
products, the BZA shall proceed in accordance with ORC 519.141.
   D)   Revoke an authorized Variance or conditional Zoning Certificate for the
extraction of Minerals , if any condition of the Variance or certificate is
violated.
      1)   The BZA shall notify the holder of the Variance or certificate
either by certified mail or, if the board has record of an internet identifier
of record (as defined in ORC 9.312) associated with the holder, by ordinary
mail and by that internet identifier of record of its intent to revoke the
Variance or certificate under ORC 519.14.D and of the holder's right to a
hearing before the BZA, within thirty (30) days of the mailing of the notice,
if the holder so requests. If the holder requests a hearing, the BZA shall set
a time and place for the hearing and notify the holder. At the hearing, the
holder may appear in person, by the holder's attorney, or by other
representative, or the holder may present the holder's position in writing. The
holder may present evidence and examine witnesses appearing for or against the
holder. If no hearing is requested, the BZA may revoke the variance or
certificate without a hearing. The authority to revoke a variance or
certificate is in addition to any other means of zoning enforcement provided by
law.
   E)   Pursuant to ORC 519.14, in exercising its duties, the BZA may, in
conformity with the terms of this Resolution, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed
from and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought
to be made, and to that end shall have all powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken.
301.07   The BZA may also determine the exact location of any District boundary
in accordance with Section
503.
301.08   A majority vote of a quorum of the BZA is required to reverse any
order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Zoning Inspector, or to
decide in favor of the applicant on any matter the BZA is required to address
under this Resolution.
301.09   The Zoning Commission and Township Trustees shall not have authority
over the responsibilities assigned to the BZA, nor shall they have the
authority to assume such responsibilities or override any decision of the BZA.
301.10   Decisions made by the Township Trustees or the Zoning Commission shall
not be appelable to the BZA. Decisions of the BZA likewise are not appealable
to the Township Trustees or Zoning Commission .
301.11   The BZA may enter private deliberations with legal counsel during any
quasi-judicial proceedings; however, all decisions shall be rendered in an open
session unless otherwise permitted by law.
301.12   The BZA, subject to Section
301.06.E, may reconsider its own decision until the institution of a court
appeal or the expiration of the applicable appeal period.
301.13   Individuals providing testimony before the BZA are subject to cross-
examination.
301.14   Applications to the BZA are subject to the doctrine res judicata.
Section 302: Conditional Use s
302.01   Certain Use s within Genoa Township are permitted only through a
Conditional Use review and approval process, as established in this Resolution
and identified within Article
5.
302.02   An application for Conditional Use approval by at least one (1) owner
of the property is required prior to any authorization by the Board of Zoning
Appeals . At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
   A)   Plans, information, and materials demonstrating compliance with this
Zoning Resolution, including applicable Conditional Use standards and Legal
Approval (s).
   B)   Plans, information, materials, etc., required by any application form.
   C)   Anything deemed necessary by the Zoning Inspector or their assignee to
properly administer this Zoning Resolution, including any applicable Legal
Approval (s); and
   D)   A fee as established by the Township Trustees .
302.03   The Board of Zoning Appeals may waive, implicitly or explicitly, any
Conditional Use submittal requirement herein with the exception of the required
application fee.
Section 303: Conditional Use Provisions
303.01   Conditional Use s may be approved only when the proposed Use is found
to comply with the standards of this Resolution and all other applicable
requirements. Nothing in this Section, however, shall be interpreted to
guarantee approval of Conditional Use merely because all such standards are met
303.02   Conditional Use regulations and specific Conditional Use standards
shall be as set forth in Article
17 unless otherwise stated.
Section 304: Conditional Use Procedures
304.01   The BZA shall hold a public hearing within a reasonable time after
receiving a complete Conditional Use application.
   A)   Public notice of the hearing shall be provided by any method authorized
by the ORC at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing date. Such notice shall
state the time, place, and nature of the public hearing .
   B)   Written notice of such hearing shall be mailed by the Zoning Inspector
or their designee, by first class mail, at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing to the parties in interest including the owners of property Contiguous
to and directly across the street from the applicant’s property. The applicant
shall provide a list of such property owners and one set of pre-addressed,
legal-size envelopes, with sufficient postage. These shall be used by the
Township to issue mailed notices. Mailed notices shall contain the same
information required for published notices.
304.02   Within a reasonable time after the hearing, the BZA shall approve,
approve with supplementary conditions, or disapprove the application. If the
BZA disapproves the application, such decision being an administrative act made
in an adjudicative setting, may be appealed by the applicant to the Court of
Common Pleas.
Section 305: Conditional Use Permit
305.01   If a Conditional Use is approved, the applicant shall subsequently
apply for and obtain a Conditional Use Permit (i.e., Zoning Permit ) prior to
establishing the approved Use. Except as otherwise provided in this Resolution,
Conditional Use Permits are subject to the provisions of Sections
115 (Zoning Permit s and Certificates of Compliance ) and
116 (Enforcement).
305.02   A Conditional Use Permit shall be deemed to authorize only one
particular Conditional Use . The Conditional Use Permit shall automatically
expire if, for any reason, the Conditional Use shall cease for more than six
(6) months, or if construction or establishment is not begun within twelve (12)
months of approval of the Conditional Use Permit .
   A)   Should a Conditional Use Permit expire for any reason, a new
Conditional Use Permit pursuant to the standards, procedures, and provisions of
Sections
302 –
304 shall be required to be established. Applications shall meet the zoning
standards in effect at the time the application is resubmitted and shall be
required to pay all applicable fees.
Section 306: Administrative Appeals
306.01   In accordance with ORC 519.15, appeals to the BZA regarding
the interpretation or administration of this Resolution may be filed by any
person aggrieved or affected by a decision made by any administrative officer
of the Township.
306.02   An appeal shall be filed within twenty (20) days of the decision being
appealed by submitting a written notice to the Township. This notice shall
specify the grounds for the appeal. The Zoning Inspector shall transmit to the
BZA all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was
taken.
306.03   The filing of an appeal stays all proceedings related to the action
appealed unless the Zoning Inspector certifies to the BZA that, due to specific
stated facts, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
cases, proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order that may
be granted by BZA or by a court of record on application, on notice to the
Zoning Inspector from whom the appeal was taken.
306.04   The BZA shall set a time and place for the appeal hearing and shall
provide at least ten (10) days’ written notice to all parties in interest,
including the owners of property Contiguous to and directly across the street
from the applicant’s property. Public notice of hearings, including its date,
place, and subject matter, shall also be published by any method authorized by
the ORC at least ten (10) days before the hearing date. Any party in interest
may appear and be heard at the hearing in person, by agent, or by attorney.
306.05   The BZA shall have all the powers of the Zoning Inspector with respect
to the decision under appeal. A concurring vote of a majority of a quorum of
BZA members is required to reverse or modify any decision of the Zoning
Inspector. The BZA shall issue a written decision and finding of fact without
unreasonable delay after the close of a hearing. A copy of the decision and
findings of fact shall be sent to the Township Trustees and Zoning Commission ,
and by certified mail to the applicant.
306.06   A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by the applicable fee
established by the Township Trustees .
Section 307: Variance s
307.01   A Variance to any standard within this Zoning Resolution may be
requested by any individual or party. Such a request shall be considered and
decided by the BZA. Denial of a Zoning Permit or any type of Certificate of
Zoning Compliance shall not be a prerequisite to make such an application.
307.02   No Variance shall be granted unless the applicant submits a written
Variance application to the Township and provides sufficient evidence
demonstrating a requested Variance is warranted under the standards of this
Resolution as determined by the BZA.
307.03   An application for a Variance shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information:
   A)   Plans, information, and materials demonstrating compliance with this
Zoning Resolution, including applicable Conditional Use standards and Legal
Approval (s).
   B)   Plans, information, materials, etc., required by any application form.
   C)   Anything deemed necessary by the Zoning Inspector or their assignee to
properly administer this Zoning Resolution, including any applicable Legal
Approval (s); and
   D)   A fee as established by the Township Trustees .
307.04   The BZA may waive, implicitly or explicitly, any Variance submittal
requirement herein with the exception of the required application fee.
307.05   Approval of a Variance . The applicant bears the burden of proving
that a Variance request should be approved. Except as otherwise provided for
Area Variance s in Section
307.06 and Use Variance s in Section
307.07 below, the BZA shall only approve a Variance , or modification thereof,
if the following findings are made by the BZA:
   A)   That such Variance or modification will not be contrary to the public
interest;
   B)   That owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of this Zoning
Resolution will result in unnecessary hardship; and
   C)   That the approval of such Variance or modification thereof is
consistent with the spirit of this Zoning Resolution, and substantial justice
shall be done thereby.
307.06   Area Variance s. The BZA shall not grant an Area Variance unless the
Board determines that the applicant has encountered practical difficulties in
the use of the subject property. The BZA shall consider all relevant factors in
determining whether the applicant has encountered practical difficulties in the
use of such property, including, but not limited to:
   A)   Whether the property in question will yield a reasonable return or
whether there can be any beneficial use of the property without the Variance .
   B)   Whether the Variance is substantial.
   C)   Whether the essential character of the neighborhood would be
substantially altered, or whether adjoining properties would suffer a
substantial detriment as a result of the variance.
   D)   Whether the Variance would adversely affect the delivery of
governmental services (e.g., water, sewer, garbage, emergency response,
maintenance of public infrastructure).
   E)   Whether the property owner purchased the property with knowledge of the
zoning restriction.
   F)   Whether the property owner's predicament feasibly can be obviated
through some method other than a Variance .
   G)   Whether the spirit and intent behind the zoning requirement would be
observed and substantial justice done by granting the Variance .
307.07   Use Variance s. The BZA shall not grant a Use Variance unless an
unnecessary hardship exists as determined by the BZA. An unnecessary hardship
shall exist only if the applicant is able to sufficiently prove, with facts, to
the Board that it is not economically feasible to put the subject property to
any Use permitted within its current zoning classification due to
characteristics unique to the property. An unnecessary hardship shall be
considered to not exist if the property is suitable for any Use permitted
within its current zoning classification.
307.08   The BZA shall hold a public hearing within a reasonable time after the
receiving an application for a Variance . Public notice of the hearing provided
by any method authorized by the ORC at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing
date. The notice shall set forth the date, time, place, and the nature of the
hearing.
307.09   Written notice of the public hearing shall be mailed by the BZA
Township, by first class mail, at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to
the parties in interest including all owners of property Contiguous to and
directly across the street from the applicant’s property. The applicant shall
provide a list of such property owners and one set of pre-addressed, legal-size
envelopes with sufficient postage. These shall be used by the Township to issue
mailed notices. Mailed notices shall contain the same information required for
published notices.
307.10   Conditions. In granting any Variance request, the BZA may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this Resolution.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the request for a Variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this Resolution and thus subject to enforcement pursuant to Section
116.
307.11   The BZA shall have all the powers of the Zoning Inspector with respect
to such decision. The concurring vote of a majority of a quorum of BZA members
shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision of the Zoning Inspector.
The BZA shall issue a decision based on findings of fact on the application
without unreasonable delay after the closure of a hearing. A copy of the
decision shall be sent to the applicant.
307.12   Expiration of Approval. Unless otherwise stipulated by the BZA, the
applicant for a Variance shall obtain a Zoning Permit for the proposed project
within one (1) year of the approval being granted; otherwise, the approval
shall lapse, expire, and be null and void ab initio.
   A)   Extensions of time may be requested by the applicant in writing by
filing such a request with the Zoning Inspector at least thirty (30) days prior
to the expiration of the one (1) year period. If an applicant fails to make an
extension request within the prescribed deadline, the approved Variance shall
become void, and a new Variance would have to be sought. Subsequent extension
requests shall also be subject to this protocol.
   B)   The BZA, for good cause shown, may enlarge the one (1) year period
prescribed within this Section.
   C)   Alternatively, when approving a Variance , the BZA has discretion to
grant the Zoning Inspector the authority to extend said Variance . Requests
would be subject to the deadline established in Section
307.12.A.
ARTICLE 4: Definitions
Section 401: Introduction
401.01   All words, terms, abbreviations, and/or phrases used in this
Resolution shall retain their customary meanings as defined in Webster’s New
World: College Dictionary, Fourth Edition, 2009, published by Wiley Publishing,
Inc., unless otherwise specifically defined within this Resolution. An
exception to this being any technical words and phrases not otherwise defined
in this Zoning Resolution that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law, in which case such words and phrases shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
Section 402: Definitions
Accessory Building or Structure – A Building or Structure located on the same
Lot or Tract as an associated Principal Structure that: contains a lawful
Accessory Use ; and/or is designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied
in a manner that is customarily incidental and subordinate in area, extent, or
purpose to the Principal Building or Structure which it serves (e.g., Accessory
Dwellings , decks, Detached garages, Fences, gazebos, pavilions, sheds,
Swimming Pool s, walls, etc.).
Accessory Storage – The incidental keeping of goods, materials, and other such
items directly related to a Principal Use on the same property, regardless of
whether said storage occurs within a Principal Structure or an Accessory
Structure .
Accessory Telecommunications – Telecommunications Tower s between eight (8)
feet and thirty-five (35) feet in Height , including Distributed Antenna
Systems (DAS) and small cells sites, communication nodes, antennas, fiber-optic
cables, radio transceivers, and any additional equipment associated with
transmission, which are typically used to supplement the service of larger
Telecommunications Tower s and reduce the need for additional larger
Telecommunications Tower s.
Accessory Use – Any purpose for which a Building , Structure , or a portion of
land may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied which is
customarily ancillary, incidental, and/or subordinate in area, extent or
purpose to a Principal Use that is located on the same Lot or Tract .
Accessory Wall – An Accessory Structure consisting of any vertical wall, taller
than one (1) foot, which is not constructed to retain soil or other natural
materials.
ADA – The Americans with Disabilities Act.
Addition – An improvement that increases the area and/or Height of a Structure
, including: those which extend laterally to the front, side, or rear of a
Structure, those which extend vertically on top of a Structure, and/or
enclosures added underneath an above ground Structure but shall not include any
improvements being made underneath and underground of an existing Structure so
long as it does not expand the existing, above ground footprint of said
Structure.
Adult Use Cannabis Operations – Any and all activities or operations described
as such by ORC 3780 or 3796, as may be amended (i.e., Adult Use Cannabis
Operators).
Agricultural Production – See ORC 901.80(A)(1) and 929.01(A), as may be
amended.
Agriculture – Any and all activities recognized by ORC 519.01 and/or 519.21, as
may be amended.
Agritourism – Any and all activities recognized in ORC 519.01, 519.21(D)(2),
and/or 901.80(A)(2), as may be amended.
Alteration – Any change in the supporting members (such as bearing walls,
beams, columns, roof structure, or girders) of a Building , Sign , Structure ,
or Swimming Pool , any addition to the exterior of a such, or any movement of
such from one location to another. This definition shall not include the repair
or replacement of any such item in kind.
Amateur Radio Service Communications – Any and all activities recognized by ORC
519.214, as may be amended.
Amphitheater – A fully or quasi outdoor space specifically designed and built
to enable an audience to observe competitions, performances, productions, and/
or motion pictures on a set, stage, and/or screen generally situated on one end
of the facility, including but not necessarily limited to band shells and
drive-in theaters.
Amusement Arcade – Any commercial establishment where six (6) or more Amusement
Devices are located, but which does not otherwise operate as a Games of Chance
Establishment .
Amusement Device – Any mechanical , electrical, digital, and/or virtual machine
or apparatus used to for entertainment and/or the playing of games, which may
be commonly known as “pinball machines”, “video games”, “virtual reality”, or
“jukeboxes”, or upon which games and/or music played after the insertion of a
coin or other disc, slug, or token for which fees paid to any kind of an
attendant. This definition shall include any technological successors, both
known and unknown.
Amusement Park – A permanently sited establishment where patrons typically pay
a fee to enjoy rides regulated by the Ohio Department of Agriculture, Division
of Amusement Ride Safety & Fairs, and which may also feature Amusement Devices,
exhibitions, games of skill or chance, performances, and the like. Such Use may
also contain within its confines Arena s, Amphitheater s, Auditorium s,
Drinking Establishment s, Event Facilities , Food Halls, Galleries, Mobile
Vending , Museums, Nightclubs, Open Space , Restaurant s, Retail Establishment
s, Stadium s, and/or other similar types of Use s which customarily provide
food, refreshments, recreation, entertainment, and/or operations support.
Amusement Resort – An establishment featuring two (2) or more separately-
ticketed Amusement Park (s), an Amusement Park in conjunction with a Hotel ,
and/or an Amusement Park in combination or conjunction with any other separate
Principal Use which may or may not be located within the former’s confines
including administrative, maintenance, safety, transportation, and/or utility
facilities needed to properly run and support such an operation.
Anemometer – An instrument that measures the force and direction of the wind.
Animal Park – An establishment which maintains a collection of animals (wild or
domestic), including dangerous wild animals as defined and regulated by ORC
935.01(C), as may be amended, typically in a park, garden, or tank, for study,
conservation, and/or display to the public; commonly known as an aquarium,
menagerie, safari park, petting zoo, and/or zoo. Such a facility may contain
facilities necessary to support the operation.
Animal Shelter – See ‘Kennel ’.
Antenna, Aerial – An arrangement of wires or metal rods used in sending or
receiving electromagnetic waves. Antennas may be freestanding or affixed to
Building s. They are supported in the air by a Structure used primarily for
supporting one or more antennas, including foundation, guys, and other
components thereof. For the purpose of this Resolution, telecommunications
towers as defined in ORC 519.211(B)(1) shall not be considered an Aerial
Antenna but shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of Section
2204 of this Resolution.
Arena – A completely indoor facility specifically designed and built to enable
an audience to observe athletic events, competitions, performances,
productions, and/or motion pictures occurring in a space surrounded on most or
all sides by seating for spectators, also commonly referred to as a coliseum or
fieldhouse.
Attached – Any Structure or part of a Structure immediately adjacent to another
Structure or part of a Structure and fastened securely to the same. When
Attached is used to define the connection of two (2) Building s, they must
either:
   A)   Share a Common Wall ; or
   B)   Provide for internal access between the two (2) Building s.
Auction House – An establishment used to auction (in person, remotely, or via
the internet) goods, materials, and property, both new and used, that is stored
and/or displayed on-site, including aircraft, automobiles, Commercial Motor
Vehicle s, motorcycles, Off-Road Motorized Vehicles , recreational vehicles
(RVs), campers, and trailers (travel and hauling). Such Use shall also include
any facilities primarily used to store, repair, refinish, and/or refurbish such
items.
Auditorium – A completely indoor facility specifically designed and built to
enable an audience to observe competitions, performances, productions, and/or
motion pictures on a set, stage, and/or screen generally situated on one end of
the room, such as, but not necessarily limited to, concert venues,
entertainment studios that admit an audience, movie theaters, and performance
halls.
Automobile Detail – Any Building , Structure , Lot , Tract , or portion thereof
used to render on-site services involving the detailing of motor vehicles,
excluding Commercial Motor Vehicle s, including buffing, striping, painting,
finishing, interior cleaning, glass repair, audio/visual installation, and
audio/visual repair but shall include any services meeting the definition of
Automobile Repair .
Automobile Fueling/Charging Station – A non-residential facility that is
primarily arranged, designed, used, or intended to be used to sell and dispense
fuel and/or energy for motor vehicles, excluding Marinas. Such establishments
may also contain Ancillary  Retail and/or a Restaurant functioning as an
Accessory Use , but do not include any Use which primarily meets the definition
of, and functions as, a Truck Terminal .
Automobile Repair – Any Building , Structure , Lot , Tract , or portion
thereof, in/upon which a business or industry performs or renders an on-site
service (s) involving the maintenance, servicing, and/or repairing of motor
vehicles, including quick-change services but excluding Commercial Motor
Vehicle s, but not otherwise meeting the definition of Automobile Detail .
Automobile Salvage – See ‘Junkyard ’.
Automobile Wash – Any Building , Structure , Lot , Tract , or portion thereof,
primarily utilized for washing motor vehicles and/or Heavy Equipment .
Aviation Facility – Any privately owned Building , Structure , Lot , Tract , or
portion thereof, which contains one or more of the following; Landing Pads,
Landing Strips, runways, moorings, hangars, terminals, concourses, fueling
stations, and the like or any other Structure s, equipment, improvement, or
open space utilized to operate, track, repair, rent, lease, sell, test, store,
detail, or wash aircraft or spacecraft and/or any such related components,
including private airports. This definition shall also include the rental of
space for the storage of the aforementioned but shall exclude incidental
retailing of unmanned drones.
Awning – An architectural projection, wholly supported by a Building , composed
of canvas, fabric, or other non-rigid material which is intended for shelter or
ornamentation.
Barn – An Accessory Building upon a Lot customarily used for the housing of
livestock and/or for the storage of crops and/or machinery or equipment used
for the purposes of Agriculture .
Basement – Floor space in a Building partially or wholly underground but having
more than one-half (1/2) of its clear floor-to-ceiling Height below the average
grade of the adjoining ground. A Basement shall be counted as a Story if it
does not meet the definition above.
Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) – One or more devices, assembled together,
capable of storing electricity, typically generated by a renewable source
(e.g., Solar Energy System , Wind Farm ) and subsequently discharging it
primarily for the purpose of supplying electricity to a Structure and/or to the
electrical grid.
   A)   Battery Energy Storage System, Off-Site: A Battery Energy Storage
System that is intended to primarily serve the electricity needs of properties
other than the one upon which it is located or the electrical grid, but may, at
times, discharge to Structure s or facilities on the same property.
      1)   Battery Energy Storage System, Small Off-Site: An Off-Site Battery
Energy Storage System with a nameplate capacity of twenty megawatts (20 MW) or
less.
      2)   Battery Energy Storage System, Medium Off-Site: An Off-Site Battery
Energy Storage System with a nameplate capacity greater than twenty megawatts
(20 MW) and less than fifty megawatts (50 MW) as well as any such system with a
nameplate capacity exceeding fifty megawatts (50 MW) but with an energy
discharge capability of less than two hundred megawatt hours (200 MWh).
      3)   Battery Energy Storage System, Large Off-Site: An Off-Site Battery
Energy Storage System with a nameplate capacity of fifty megawatts (50 MW) or
more and an energy discharge capability of two hundred megawatt hours (200 MWh)
or more.
   B)   Battery Energy Storage System, On-Site: A Battery Energy Storage System
that is intended to primarily serve the electricity needs of the applicant
property but may, at times, discharge into the electric grid.
Bed and Breakfast – A residential-style Building , typically in the form of a
Single-Family Dwelling , in which the property owner not only occupies and
resides but also, for a fee, offers, operates, maintains, and serves transient
lodging accommodation(s) and/or Dwelling s made available to the public for a
period of thirty (30) consecutive days or less. Such a Use may also provide
additional, incidental services, such as Restaurant s, Event Facilities ,
meeting rooms, Swimming Pool s, and incidental recreational facilities, but
shall not contain any elements of a Sexually Oriented Business . For the
purposes of this Zoning Resolution, this definition shall also not include
extended-stay hotels or residential hotels defined by ORC 3731.01, as may be
amended.
Bedroom – A Dwelling room used or intended to be used by human beings for
sleeping purposes.
Billboard – See ‘Signs, Billboard ’.
Biodiesel Production – Any and all activities recognized by ORC 519.21(C)(2)
and 5713.30 – 5713.37, as may be amended or supplemented.
Biologically Derived Methane Gas Production – Any and all activities recognized
by ORC 519.21(C)(3) and 5713.30 – 5713.37, as may be amended or supplemented.
Biomass Energy Production – Any and all activities recognized by ORC Section
519.21(C)(2) and 5713.30 – 5713.37, as may be amended or supplemented.
Board of Zoning Appeals – The statutory Board of Zoning Appeals of Genoa
Township, Delaware County, Ohio established in accordance with ORC 519.
Boarding House – A residential Building in which lodgers including students,
fraternities, and/or sororities, rent one (1) or more rooms within said
Building for a period exceeding thirty (30) days and utilize common space for
daily living activities such as, but not necessarily limited to, cooking,
dining, cleaning, personal hygiene, leisure, and the like. Board (i.e., meals)
for said lodgers may or may not be provided in such a facility.
Brewery – A facility that holds a license to manufacture, store, and distribute
Malt or Brewed Beverages , excluding liquor, liqueur, spirits, wine, and/or the
like, as regulated by the State of Ohio.
   A)   Brewpub, Macro: A type of Macrobrewery which also functions as a
Restaurant and may, if permitted by the State of Ohio, sell Malt or Brewed
Beverages .
   B)   Brewpub, Micro: A type of Microbrewery which also functions as a
Restaurant and may, if permitted by the State of Ohio, sell Malt or Brewed
Beverages .
   C)   Farm Brewery: A facility, located on a Farm, engaging in the
Agricultural Production of Malt or Brewed Beverages as regulated by the State
of Ohio.
   D)   Macrobrewery: A Brewery producing greater than fifteen thousand
(15,000) barrels (US barrels) on site per calendar year.
   E)   Microbrewery: A Brewery producing fifteen thousand (15,000) or fewer
barrels (US barrels) on site per calendar year.
Building –    Any Structure having a primarily solid (i.e., non-lattice or
trellis style) roof supported by poles, columns, or walls, which is designed
for the shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, crops,
materials, or property of any kind. This definition shall include balconies,
Porch es, verandas, and the like covered by such roofs, but shall not include
at-grade patios located directly underneath a balcony, deck, etc.
Building Envelope – An area with defined boundaries within a larger, commonly-
owned property controlled by a condominium association or other similar type of
entity that identifies the designated area(s) in which a Building and/or
Structure may be constructed.
Building Line – A line parallel to the Street touching that part of a Building
closest to the Street and thereby establishing the minimum distance between
said Building and Street .
Building Materials Sales and Storage – Any Building , Structure , Lot , Tract ,
or significant portion thereof, utilized for the selling and Outdoor Display or
Storage of building materials such as, but not necessarily limited to, timber,
masonry, metal, concrete, asphalt, stone, sand, soil, glass, plastic, vinyl,
and any other such products and/or materials customarily used in construction
whether they be in a raw, processed, and/or manufactured form.
Building, Principal – A Building in which is conducted the main or Principal
Use of the property on which such Building is situated.
Bulk Fuel Storage – A facility not otherwise meeting the definition of
Automobile Fueling/Charging Station that is primarily utilized for the storage
and retail of petroleum and other fuels which are usually transported in
relatively large volumes rather than in packages or boxes.
Campground – An establishment offering space, Structure s, and/or cabins for
the purpose of camping. Space may take the form of grounds, platforms, and/or
designated stalls, paved or unpaved, for tents, Camping or Recreational
Equipment , and the like. Such establishments may also include fireplaces/pits,
picnic tables, trails, docks, utility hookups, restrooms, bath houses,
administrative offices, mess halls, and Commercial and/or Private Recreational
Facilities.
Camping or Recreational Equipment – For the purpose of this Resolution, Camping
or Recreational Equipment shall include any trailer or vehicle that is used for
personal recreation or hobbies, including but not limited to the following:
   A)   Boat and Boat Trailer. Watercraft, floats, and rafts as well as the
normal equipment to transport the same.
   B)   Folding Tent Trailer. A folding Structure mounted on wheels and
designed for travel and vacation use.
   C)   Motorized Home. A portable Dwelling designed and constructed as an
integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
   D)   Pickup Camper. A Structure designed primarily to be mounted on a pickup
or truck chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it suitable for use
also as a temporary Dwelling for travel, recreational, or vacation uses.
   E)   Travel Trailer. A vehicular, portable Structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary Dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation uses.
   F)   Horse Trailer. A Structure mounted on wheels used to transport animals
and designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
Canopy – An architectural projection, constructed of rigid materials, that is
partially supported by a Building and one or more columns, poles, posts, or
other such supports; or a freestanding Building , constructed from rigid
materials, that consists of a solid roof and no walls. In either case, such a
feature shall be intended only for shelter or ornamentation.
Cashing and/or Lending Business – Any and all activities recognized by ORC
1315.21 and 1315.30, as may be amended or supplemented, as well as commercial
operations that primarily provide pawn brokerage, payday advancements/loans,
and/or other similar types of short-term financial services.
Cemetery – Land used or intended to be used for the burial of human or animal
dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums,
and mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery.
Certificate of Zoning Compliance – A document issued by the Zoning Inspector,
or their designee, verifying compliance with an approved and issued Zoning
Permit , also known as a Certificate of Compliance.
Clear Fall Zone – An area surrounding the wind turbine unit into which the
turbine and/or turbine components might fall due to inclement weather, poor
maintenance, faulty construction methods, or any other condition causing the
turbine failure that shall remain unobstructed and confined within the Lot
Lines of the primary Lot where the turbine is located. The purpose being that
if the turbine should fall or otherwise become damaged, the falling structure
will be confined to the primary Lot and will not fall onto Dwelling s, any
inhabited buildings, or intrude onto a neighboring property.
Club – A private establishment, which may or may not require membership, that
is primarily utilized for a civic, social, cultural, literary, scientific,
artistic, political, non-athletic recreational or like activity, but not to
render a service which is customarily carried on as a business, Drinking
Establishment , Restaurant , Nightclub , or Sexually Oriented Business . Such
facilities may also be occasionally, but not primarily, utilized as an Event
Facility .
Clubhouse – A Structure typically located within a Country Club , Golf Course ,
or residential community which serves as a gathering area exclusively for club
or community members and which may also feature administrative Offices and
amenities for members or other authorized patrons such as, but not necessarily
limited to, locker rooms, fitness rooms, indoor recreation areas, spas,
Drinking Establishment s, Retail Establishment (s), Restaurant (s), banquet
facilities, meeting space, and the like but does not contain any elements
meeting the definition of a Sexually Oriented Business .
Cluster Box Unit (CBU) – A freestanding, pedestal-mounted mailbox that consists
of multiple mailbox compartments and parcel lockers that can lock individually.
Commercial and/or Private Recreation – An establishment not otherwise meeting
the definition of Recreation and/or Instructional Facility or Racetrack where
patrons participate in activities such as, but not necessarily limited to,
archery, athletics, bowling, canoeing, kayaking, laser tag, go-karts, miniature
golf, paintball, rowing, skateboarding, rollerblading, skating, skiing,
snowboarding, swimming, tubing, shooting, and the like but which does not offer
rides regulated by the Ohio Department of Agriculture, Division of Amusement
Ride Safety & Fairs.
   A)   Indoor Commercial and/or Private Recreation – Any such facility in
which the activities described herein above occur solely within the confines of
a Building and which are generally no more observable or perceivable to an
external individual than any other business conducted within a similar type of
Structure .
   B)   Outdoor Commercial and/or Private Recreation – Any such facility in
which the activities described herein above occur wholly or partially outdoors
(i.e., outside) and/or which are reasonably observable or perceivable by an
external individual, regardless of whether said individual is on or off
premises.
Commercial Kitchen – A facility primarily utilized by employees or patrons to
package, produce, prepare, and/or arrange ready to eat food products on a
small, quasi-residential scale such as baked goods, cold cut meats,
refrigerated or frozen meals, produce, salads, sandwiches, sliced cheese, and
the like which are purchased and/or consumed off-site and which may offer
catering services, but does not otherwise engage in any on-premise butchering
of livestock, food manufacturing , food processing , harvesting, packing, and/
or other similar activities which produce significant amounts of (bio)hazardous
waste, unusable byproducts, excessive noise, and/or foul odors.
Commercial Motor Vehicle – As defined by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration (FMCSA) within 49 CFR, 390.5, as may be amended.
Common Access Driveway (CAD) – Privately constructed, owned, and maintained
common driveway within a platted ingress/egress easement in accordance with
approved county Subdivision Regulations.
Common Wall – A vertical structure separating two (2) or more buildings or
structures.
Commonly Controlled Business Operation – Any business, group of businesses, or
other operation situated on a single Lot or on two (2) or more Contiguous  Lots
which are integrated by ownership, management, physical proximity, or control.
A business or other operation shall be considered commonly controlled if it
exhibits one or more of the following characteristics: shared premises, common
ownership, shared management, shared policies, common management, common or
close proximate facilities, or shared employees.
Community Center – A Structure in which members of a defined community gather
for educational, recreational, social, fraternal, and/or cultural activities,
but which does not contain a Dwelling (s). Such a Use may be an incidental
component of a Religious Establishment or Educational Institution .
   A)   Non-Residential Community Center: A type of Community Center, which is
made available, in whole or in part, to the community at large regardless of
their residential status.
   B)   Residential Community Center: A type of Community Center exclusively
utilized by residents of a specified residential complex, neighborhood, or
Planned Development .
Community Storage Lot – A parking lot and/or yard owned or controlled by a
defined residential neighborhood or association (e.g., homeowner association)
used exclusively by the residents of said neighborhood to store their boats,
recreational vehicles, and the like.
Composting Facility – A business establishment that uses controlled aerobic
decomposition to transform waste organic material into a biologically stable
product that can be used as a soil amendment.
Comprehensive Plan – The official Comprehensive Plan adopted by Genoa Township
(aka Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan), as may be amended, establishing a
vision for the future of the township and which may include goals, studies,
analysis, recommendations, strategies, and action plans to direct future growth
and development. Such plans provide long-range guidelines for the township’s
future development, outlining, amongst other things, land Use , transportation,
infrastructure, demographics, housing, economic conditions, environments,
resources, recreational opportunities, social factors, and other key areas,
serving as a foundation and basis for the Zoning Resolution and any other
pertinent township policies or regulations.
Concrete or Asphalt Batch Plant – Any Building , Structure , Lot , Tract , or
portion thereof, utilized for the manufacturing or mixing of concrete and/or
asphalt.
Conditional Use – A Use permitted within a District, other than a Permitted
Principal Use , requiring a Conditional Use Permit and approved by the Board of
Zoning Appeals .
Conditional Use Permit – A permit issued by the Zoning Inspector after
authorization by the Board of Zoning Appeals to allow certain specific
developments that would not otherwise be allowed in a particular Zoning
District . These permits are issued only after the applicant has followed the
procedures as stated in Sections
302 -
305 of this Resolution.
Condominium Owner’s or Homeowner’s Association – A private non-profit
corporation, association or other non-profit entity established by the
developer to maintain such Open Space and facilities as may be dedicated to
residents within a subdivision or Planned Development . Membership in such an
association shall be mandatory for all purchasers of Lots in the development
(or units in a condominium); the association shall be capable of and
responsible for maintenance, control and insurance of common areas, including
the Open Space ; and the association shall have the right to impose assessments
upon its members, enforceable by liens, in order to ensure that it will have
sufficient financial resources to provide for proper care and maintenance of
the Open Space .
Conference or Convention Center – A completely indoor facility or complex
specifically designed and built to host exhibitions, fairs, festivals,
meetings, and other such events in one or more rooms, and which may have
lodging for exhibitors and attendees Attached to it.
Conservation Development – Land that is designed and developed as a unified
residential development with Open Space as an integral characteristic. Instead
of subdividing an entire Tract into house lots and streets, the same number of
housing Lots may be clustered on a reduced amount of acreage, on the condition
that the remaining land in the Tract is permanently reserved for Open Space
area, the future development or subdivision of which is prohibited.
Construction - The act of erecting, building, assembling, reconstructing,
converting, altering, or enlarging any Structure or Building , including site
improvements like grading or altering the land. It encompasses the installation
of materials on, above, or below the ground, requiring a Zoning Permit or
Certificate of Compliance to ensure compliance with provisions of this Zoning
Resolution.
Context-Sensitive – A concept in which the design of a Lot , Tract , Structure
, neighborhood, Planned Development , Street , Open Space , park, feature,
amenity and the like is made to match or be similar to or compatible with the
aesthetics, character, and form of the surrounding, adjacent, and/or contiguous
environs to the greatest extent possible, practical, and feasible, in order to
a create a final product that is harmonious with such area. Components of the
design may include, but are not necessarily limited to, architectural style,
color, materials, texture, treatment, height, width, massing, scale, rhythm,
ornamentation, lighting, Landscaping , and signage.
Contiguous – A physical arrangement of property, such as, but not necessarily
limited to, Lots , Tract s, and Right-of-Ways , in which a piece of property
directly contacts or immediately connects, in an unbroken sequence, to another
piece of property. Lots or Tract s that are separated from one another by a
Right-of-Way or Easement but would otherwise connect in an unbroken sequence if
their Frontages were extended through such barrier, shall be considered
Contiguous.
Contractor’s Yard – An area utilized for Outdoor Display or Storage of
materials, equipment, yard waste (lawn clippings, leaves, tree limbs, soil,
stones, stumps, etc.), and other such items which are used exclusively by
contractors and Professional Services providers that contractors may do
business with such as, but not necessarily limited to; builders, carpenters,
electricians, handymen, HVAC technicians, landscapers, masons, metal workers,
plumbers, roofers, and the like.
Correctional Facility – A facility housing confined persons under arrest,
awaiting trial, serving a sentence for a criminal offense as well as facilities
engaged in the non-medical intervention and/or rehabilitation of individuals
for the betterment of themselves and/or society. This definition shall include
establishments commonly known as jails, prisons, correctional institutions,
detention centers, and reformatories.
Country Club – A privately owned, for-profit establishment which offers a
variety of recreational sports and, athletics, often featuring a Golf Course ,
and offering other activities such as, but not necessarily limited to, tennis,
swimming, and the like, primarily to club members and their invited guests.
Such establishments often provide opportunities and space to members for
dining, entertainment, relaxation, gatherings, and ceremonies.
Crematorium – A facility utilized to cremate deceased humans or animals.
Cultural Center - A conglomeration of three (3) or more independent Structure s
utilized to promote the knowledge, beliefs, arts, and/or customs of a specific
group of people sharing a common ethnicity, nationality, or heritage, including
Amphitheater s, Auditorium s, Educational Institutions, libraries, Museums,
Recreation and/or Instructional Facility , Religious Establishment , and the
like.
Data Center – A Building or group of Building s primarily used to house
computer systems, servers, and associated components and support utilities
typically related to the internet, telecommunications, and/or information
technology for the purposes of administration, archiving, operations, and
digital records management.
Day Care Establishment – A licensed establishment offering regular supervisory
and care services for children for a period of fewer than twenty-four (24)
hours per day.
   A)   Day Care Center Establishment: Any such facility providing the such
services to seven (7) or more children at one time.
   B)   Day Care Center, Type A: Per Ohio law, as may be amended, any such of
facility, including in-home facilities, which can care for up to twelve (12)
but which is also restricted to caring for no more than six (6) children at one
time (and no more than three (3) children under the age of two (2)).
   C)   Day Care Center, Type B: Per Ohio law, as may be amended, any such
facility, including in-home facilities, which can care for no more than six (6)
children at one time (and no more than three (3) children under the age of two
(2)). In such cases, under said law, children under age six (6) related to the
provider (including the provider’s own children) and residents of the home must
be included in the total group size.
Decibel –    A unit of relative loudness equal to ten times the common
logarithm of the ratio of two readings. For sound, the Decibel scale runs from
zero for the least perceptible sound to 130 for sound that causes pain.
Delaware County Regional Planning Commission (DCRPC) – The legally recognized
county planning commission of Delaware County, Ohio.
Density –    A unit of measurement designating the number of Dwelling s per
acre of land as follows:
   A)   Gross Density: The number of Dwelling s per gross acre of the total
land to be developed.
   B)   Net Density: The number of Dwelling s per Net Developable Acre within a
Planned Development  Tract .
Deteriorated – Showing signs of weathering, crumbling, rust, corrosion, exposed
wiring, chipped paint or faces; cracked, broken, torn, burnt, or missing faces;
loose materials, or other evidence of disrepair.
Development Plan, Final – A comprehensive and detailed package of documents
containing drawings, Final Development Plan Text , exhibits, maps, renderings,
studies, reports, analysis, technical specifications, and other similar types
of precise, informative materials which demonstrate compliance with applicable
zoning provisions, and which also describe, illustrate, support, and
specifically regulate, with binding provisions, a Planned Development .
Development Plan, Preliminary – A comprehensive package of documents containing
drawings, Preliminary Development Plan Text , exhibits, maps, renderings,
studies, reports, analysis, specifications, and other similar types of
informative materials, which may be non-binding and conceptual in nature, for
the purposes of generally describing, illustrating, and supporting a proposed
Planned Development . Such materials are typically, but not necessarily always,
submitted in conjunction with a Zoning Map Amendment application.
Development Plan Text, Final – A written narrative which definitively describes
a Planned Development , specifically identifies and demonstrates how the
Planned Development complies with the requirements of the Zoning Resolution,
establishes enforceable Development Standards and regulations for the Planned
Development , and memorializes any terms, agreements, conditions, and/or
approvals related to the Planned Development .
Development Plan Text, Preliminary – A written narrative which conceptually
describes a Planned Development , identifies how the Planned Development would
generally comply with the requirements of the Zoning Resolution, and
establishes potential Development Standards and regulations that would apply to
the Planned Development , as well as any tentative terms, agreements,
conditions, and/or approvals which would be applicable to the Planned
Development .
Development Standards – Standards controlling the size of Structure s and the
relationships of Structure s and Use s to each other and to open areas and Lot
Lines . Development Standards typically include regulations controlling
dimensional matters such as maximum Height , minimum Lot Area , minimum Lot
Frontage , minimum size of Yards and Setback s, maximum Lot Coverage , and
maximum Floor Area ratio.
Distillery –    A facility that holds a license to manufacture, store, and
distribute liquor, liqueur, spirits, and other similar types of alcoholic
beverages, excluding wine and/or Malt or Brewed Beverages , as regulated by the
State of Ohio.
   A)   Distillery Pub, Macro: A Macrodistillery which also functions as a
Restaurant and may, if permitted by the State of Ohio, sell liquor, liqueur,
spirits, and other similar types of alcoholic beverages.
   B)   Distillery Pub, Micro: A Microdistillery which also functions as a
Restaurant and may, if permitted by the State of Ohio, sell liquor, liqueur,
spirits, and other similar types of alcoholic beverages.
   C)   Farm Distillery: A facility, located on a Farm, engaging in the
Agricultural Production of liquor, liqueur, spirits, and similar types of
alcoholic beverages, as regulated by the State of Ohio.
   D)   Macrodistillery: A Distillery producing more than twelve thousand
(12,000) gallons on site per calendar year.
   E)   Microdistillery: A Distillery producing no more than twelve thousand
(12,000) gallons on site per calendar year.
Distributed Antenna Systems (DAS) – A network of spatially separated antennas
connected to a transport medium that provides wireless service within a
geographic area or structure.
District –    See ‘Zoning District ’.
Divergence – An approved deviation from requirements contained in the Zoning
Resolution where such deviation advances public interests and may be considered
in a Planned Development  Zoning District as set forth within individual
Planned District regulations and any other applicable Zoning District where it
is stated per the Zoning Resolution.
Donation Center – An establishment that collects used and/or donated goods such
as appliances, clothing, décor, electronics, furniture, kitchenware, linens,
media, recreational equipment , tools, toys, and the like for purposes of
charity, resale, and/or redistribution.
Dormitory – A residential Building providing on-campus housing to students
actively attending a specific Educational Institution . Board (i.e., meals) may
or may not be provided to the facility’s residents.
Drinking Establishment – Any permanently sited and properly licensed facility
operated primarily for the purpose of serving alcoholic beverages to patrons in
exchange for compensation; often known as a bar, pub, tavern, or saloon. Such
establishments may offer limited food, outdoor seating, and/or incidental,
related amenities or entertainment but do not feature components otherwise
specific to a Brewery , Distillery , Event Facility , Nightclub , Restaurant ,
Sexually Oriented Business , and/or Winery .
Drive-Through Facilities – Any establishment, or portion thereof, which
provides food, drink, goods, financial services, laundry services, personal
services, pharmaceutical services, postal services, Retail services, and/or the
like directly to customers who typically remain in their motor vehicles, via
order/pick-up window(s), transaction box, pneumatic tube, telecommunication
device, Mechanical device, computer, waitstaff, and/or other such means. This
definition shall not include walk-up services nor carry-out services that are
temporary or incidental to a Principal Use .
Dry-Cleaning Plant – An establishment utilized primarily for the purpose of
dry-cleaning clothing, rugs, and/or upholstery that is typically collected from
one or more satellite business establishments. Such establishments are
typically not frequented by the general public, and/or typically do not provide
self-service laundry activities of any kind.
Dwelling –   Any Building or portion thereof occupied or intended to be
occupied primarily for residential purposes, including housekeeping facilities,
sleeping facilities, permanently installed cooking facilities, and lawfully
required sanitary facilities, but not including a Mobile Home, tent, cabin,
trailer, or trailer coach or other transient or Temporary Structure or
facility. Said Building (s) may be situated on an individual, fee-simple Lot or
part of a condominium regime.
   A)   Accessory Dwelling: A detached Accessory Use consisting of a Single-
Family (detached) Dwelling that comprises some or all portions of an Accessory
Building (e.g., carriage house, coach house, garden suite, granny flat, in-law
suite). An Accessory Dwelling shall not count as a Dwelling when calculating
Density .
   B)   Cottage Court Dwelling s: A group of Dwelling s arranged around a
shared landscaped courtyard that is visible from the Street . Each Dwelling
shall count as one (1) Dwelling for the purposes of Density .
   C)   Live/Work Dwelling(s): A type of Dwelling which also contains, within
the same Building , space designed for, and authorized to be used as, limited,
non-industrial commercial/office use by the resident of said Dwelling. If
permitted by this Resolution, such Dwelling may be incorporated within a
Single-Family Dwelling , Multiplex (small) - Duplex, Multiplex (small) –
Triplex, Multiplex (small) – Fourplex, Cottage Court Dwelling , or Row Dwelling
arrangement. Each Dwelling shall count as one (1) Dwelling for the purposes of
Density .
   D)   Multi-Family Dwelling(s): See ‘Multi-Family Building ’.
   E)   Row Dwelling (s): A residential configuration which consists of four
(4) or more attached  Dwelling s with Common Walls in a horizontal line, each
with its own exterior entrance, inclusive of end units commonly known as a
townhome, and which may be arranged as a townhouse. Each Dwelling shall count
as one (1) Dwelling for the purposes of Density .
   F)   Single-Family Dwelling(s): A Dwelling which accommodates one (1) Family
within a Principal Structure that is completely separated from other Structure
s by yard and/or open space on all sides. Each Dwelling shall count as one (1)
Dwelling for the purposes of Density .
Educational Institution – Any Building , Structure , land, or portion thereof,
primarily utilized for teaching academics and/or job skills to humans including
schools, colleges, universities, career centers, and the like, but excluding
Commercial and/or Private Recreational Facilities , Day Care Establishments ,
Kennels , Recreation and/or Instructional Facilities , Service Business –
Education , and Sexually Oriented Businesses .
   A)   Private Educational Institution: Any such establishment which is
neither owned nor operated by a public entity as further defined herein,
including those owned and/or operated by Religious Establishment s or business
enterprises.
      1)   Early Childhood: A Private Educational Institution offering academic
services to children of nursery school, pre-school, pre-kindergarten, or
kindergarten age, but which does not otherwise meet the definition of a Day
Care Establishment .
      2)   Primary: A Private Educational Institution offering academic
services to children attending grades one (1) through five (5), and which may
also include grade six (6).
      3)   Intermediary: A Private Educational Institution offering academic
services to children attending grades seven (7) or eight (8), and which may
also include grades six (6) and/or nine (9).
      4)   Secondary: A Private Educational Institution offering academic
services to children attending grades nine (9) through twelve (12).
      5)   Post-Secondary: A Private Educational Institution offering academic
services in the fields of arts and sciences for individuals who have graduated
from Secondary school or earned a GED, such as colleges and universities.
      6)   Technical: A Private Educational Institution designed to train
children and/or adults for a specific job, such as trade skills, vocational
skills, apprenticeships, and the like, including schools for barbering,
cosmetology, and driving.
   B)   Public Educational Institution: Any such establishment which is owned
and/or operated by a governmental entity or sub-agency thereof including third-
party operators which may be contracted to operate the establishment on the
entity’s/agency’s behalf including, but not limited to Westerville City
Schools, Big Walnut Local School District, Olentangy School District, and
publicly-funded institutions of higher learning (e.g., Columbus State Community
College, Ohio State University).
Electric or Heat Energy Production – Any and all activities recognized by ORC
519.21(C)(2) and 5713.30 – 5713.37, as may be amended.
Electric Vehicle Charger – A freestanding or wall-mounted unit that (re)charges
the battery of an electric vehicle.
Emergency Services – Any Building , Structure , land, or portion thereof,
primarily utilized to provide police protection, fire protection, search and
rescue operations, and/or on-site medical care/transport.
   A)   Private Emergency Services: Any such establishment which is neither
owned nor operated by a public entity as further defined herein.
   B)   Public Emergency Services: Any such establishment which is owned and/or
operated by a governmental entity or sub-agency thereof, including third-party
operators which may be contracted to operate the establishment on the entity’s/
agency’s behalf.
Entry Feature – Any Structure or Accessory Wall intended to identify the
entrance of a Lot or Tract , that:
   A)   Is located within sixty (60) feet of the intersection of the centerline
of any driveway or entrance and the adjoining public or private road  Right-of-
Way ; and
   B)   Does not exceed seventy-five (75) linear feet in length, measured end
to end along a Lot or Tract’s Frontage , exclusive of any gates or
architectural features across or above driveways.
Equipment, Heavy – Heavy-duty vehicles, machinery, or tools utilized to perform
work such as, but not necessarily limited to; backhoes, loaders, scrapers,
compactors, excavators, bulldozers, pavers, planers, rammers, loaders,
trenchers, drills, draglines, cranes, telehandlers, pipe layers, graders, rock
trucks, skid steers, forklifts, scissor lifts, dump trucks, plow trucks, street
sweepers, forest machines, harvesters, tractors, threshers, feeders, chippers,
scalpers, conveyors, screens, washers, crushers, and the like as well as
miniature and/or compact versions of such, but not including Commercial Motor
Vehicle s.
Equipment, Light – Light-duty vehicles, machinery, or tools utilized to perform
non-transportation work such as, but not necessarily limited to; lawn mowers,
lawn tractors, leaf blowers, snow blowers, vacuums, carpet cleaners, pressure
washers, trimmers, edgers, leaf grinders, chain saws, generators, wheelbarrows,
hand tools, handheld power tools, and the like.
Erection – The acts of building, constructing, altering, reconstructing, moving
a Structure upon, or any physical operations on the premises which are required
for construction , including, but not necessarily limited to: Excavation , Fill
, drainage, material storage, hauling, and the like.
Essential Services – The Erection , construction , Alteration , or maintenance
by public utilities , governmental agencies, or their designees of underground,
surface, or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or
distribution systems; collection, communication, supply or disposal systems
including mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, poles, and other similar equipment,
and applicable accessories reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate
service by such public or private utility or government agency or for the
public health, safety, and general welfare, but not including Building s.
Event Facility – Any establishment not otherwise meeting the definition of
Religious Establishment that is primarily rented for a fee to hold banquets,
ceremonies, dances, meetings, parties, rallies, receptions, weddings, and/or
other similar types of gatherings which commonly feature the consumption of
food and/or drink. This definition shall not include any activity meeting the
definition of Sexually Oriented Business .
Excavation – The act of digging, hollowing out, or any other breaking of ground
resulting in a total quantity of more than one hundred (100) cubic yards of
material or a vertical depth of more than four (4) feet. Common household
gardening and ground care, or plowing of ground for agricultural purposes,
shall be excepted from this definition.
Existing Features Plan – A plan that depicts the following:
   A)   A topographic map as published by the Delaware County Auditor’s DALIS
office;
   B)   The location of Primary Conservation Area s and all existing Rights-of-
Way and easements;
   C)   Soil boundaries as shown on USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service
medium-intensity maps; and
   D)   the location of significant features such as woodlands, tree lines,
open fields or meadows, scenic views into or out from the property, watershed
divides and drainage ways, fences or stone walls, rock outcrops, and existing
structures, road s, tracks, trails and any sites listed on the ODNR Natural
Diversity inventory.
Eyebrow – A portion of roadway that protrudes beyond the travel lane to allow
for a shared access point, additional Lot  Frontage , and/or on-street parking.
Facilities Support – Any Structure , or portion thereof, utilized to house
operations and equipment necessary for the security and/or maintenance of non-
residential buildings and grounds.
Fairground – A primarily outdoor facility adaptably designed to host a wide
variety of events, including carnivals, circuses, concerts, exhibitions, fairs,
festivals, and the like.
Family –    One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit
in a Dwelling .
Farm –    An Agricultural Operation as further defined by ORC 901.80(A)(4), as
may be amended.
Farm Market –   A Retail operation established on a Lot or Tract used to
promote or support Agriculture and fully or partially exempted from zoning
control by ORC 519.21(C)(1) as may be amended.
Fascia –   The vertical section of a Building or Structure that is located just
below the roof.
Fence –    Any free-standing Structure or Accessory Wall , other than part of a
Building , which encloses or partially encloses any premises, is intended to
fully or partially screen a property, and/or is intended to limit or prevent
straying from within or intrusion from without. Live vegetation, Entry Feature
s, and Retaining Wall s shall not be included in this definition.
Fill –    Soil, clay, sand, gravel, and other such materials (excluding sludge)
which may be deposited onto or placed into the ground.
Financial Institution – An establishment that engages in the business of
handling financial and/or monetary transactions, such as deposits, loans,
investments, currency exchange, check cashing, and the like. Such
establishments are chartered, federally insured, and/or regulated by the
Securities and Exchange Commission and do not include those meeting the
definition of a Cash and/or Lending Business .
Fleet Maintenance Facility – Any Structure , or portion thereof, containing
three (3) or more garages, bays, or other similar type of area that is used to
fuel, repair, service , and/or perform routine maintenance on vehicles,
including Commercial Motor Vehicle s, which are utilized in conjunction with a
lawful Principal Use on the same Lot or Tract .
Flex Space – An establishment that is specifically designed, marketed, and
rented to a combination of low-intensity, non-residential Use s by means of
being relatively easily adaptable, built-out, converted, and/or renovated for
such Use s but does not otherwise meet the definition of Heavy Manufacturing or
Sexually Oriented Business .
   A)   Commercial: A Flex establishment consisting of space that accommodates
low-impact Use s which primarily occur indoors, such as, but not necessarily
limited to, Event Facilities , Retail , Office , and the like, often for the
purpose of providing areas for meetings, co-working, and start-up venture
endeavors. Such an establishment may rent space(s) within the establishment on
a short-term or long-term basis.
   B)   Industrial: A Flex Space establishment consisting of clean, low-impact
Use s which primarily occur indoors, such as, but not necessarily limited to,
Light Manufacturing , Office , Retail , Warehouse , and the like. Such an
establishment frequently provides loading/unloading areas in the form of
garages, bays, or docks.
Flood, 100 Year – The temporary inundation of normally dry land areas by a
flood that is likely to occur once every one hundred (100) years (i.e., that
has a one percent (1%) chance of occurring each year, although the flood may
occur in any year and more than once a year).
Flood, 500 Year – The temporary inundation of normally dry land areas by a
flood that is likely to occur once every five hundred (500) years (i.e., that
has a two-tenths of a percent (0.2%) chance of occurring each year, although
the flood may occur in any year and more than once a year).
Flood Plain, Regulatory – The land area of Genoa Township which is subject to
inundation by the One Hundred (100) Year Flood as identified by the current
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Boundary and Floodway Map(s).
Floor Area – The sum of the gross horizontal area of all the floors of a
Building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
centerline of walls separating two (2) Building s. In calculating Floor Area,
the following shall not be included:
   A)   Attic space providing structural headroom of less than seven (7) feet,
six (6) inches.
   B)   Uncovered steps.
   C)   Terraces, breezeways, and Porch es.
   D)   Automobile parking space in a Basement or Attached Garage.
   E)   Basements.
Food Hall – A conglomeration of three (3) or more independent Restaurant s,
Brewpubs, Distillery Pubs, Drinking Establishment s, Microbreweries,
Microdistilleries , Microwineries, Tap Room s, and/or Winepubs which share a
common entrance(s) within a single Building or Structure and are typically
arranged around a central dining area, pedestrian court, and/or walkway. Such a
facility may also include Ancillary  Retail .
Food Preparation/Wholesale Plant – A kitchen-type of facility primarily
utilized to package, produce, prepare, and/or arrange ready to eat food
products at a large, industrial scale such as baked goods, cold cut meats,
refrigerated or prepared meals, produce, salads, sandwiches, sliced cheese, and
the like which are purchased and/or consumed off-site, but does not otherwise
engage in any on-premise butchering of livestock, food Manufacturing , food
processing , harvesting, packing, and/or other similar activities which produce
(bio)hazardous waste, unusable byproducts, excessive noise, and/or foul odors.
Food Processing and Packaging Plant – A facility utilized for the Manufacturing
, processing, and/or packaging of foodstuffs, including the butchering of
livestock and/or any other such food-related production activities which create
bio(hazardous) waste, unusable byproducts, excessive noise, and/or foul odors,
on the premises.
Footcandle – A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all points of which
are one (1) foot from a uniform point source of one candle. Measurement shall
be taken with the meter pointed perpendicular to the Lot Line or grade plane.
Foundation – The part of a Structure system that supports and anchors the
superstructure of a Building and transmits its loads directly to the earth. To
prevent damage from repeated freeze-thaw cycles, the bottom of the foundation
must be below the frost line. A foundation shall be constructed in accordance
with the Ohio Building Code.
Frontage – The linear measurement of the border of a Lot that directly abuts
one (1) or more Street  Rights-of-Way (public or private) and/or the defined
edge of a Private Street . In the case of a Landlocked Lot , Frontage shall be
measured along the Lot Line closest and most parallel to a Street  Right-of-Way
or defined Private Street . Should said distance be equal to more than one (1)
of the aforementioned features, the Lot shall be treated as a Corner Lot . To
determine which portions of a Lot will be determined to be the Front, Side, and
Rear for the purposes of Setback s, see the definition of Lot Line .
Fuel Generation Plant – A facility utilized to produce all types of fuel for
any purpose, excluding the following operations as protected by ORC 519.21(C)
(2) and 519.21(C)(3): biodiesel production , biomass energy production ,
electric or heat energy production , and biologically derived methane gas
production .
Funeral Home/Mortuary – An establishment which prepares the deceased for burial
or cremation, and which may also include space for mourners to gather and hold
viewings, memorials, and other such ceremonies. Such an establishment may also
include Crematoriums and/or mortuaries so long as they are completely located
within the enclosed Structure .
Gallery – See ‘Museum ’
Game Fields/Courts – Any area specifically designed for or visibly dedicated to
the playing of athletic games and/or recreational activities, excluding
swimming. Examples of such include, but are not necessarily limited to,
baseball fields, football fields, soccer fields, ice rinks, basketball courts,
volleyball courts, and tennis courts.
Games of Chance Establishment – Any premise containing an enterprise that is
primarily engaged in the business of betting and wagering, including casinos,
off-track betting, racinos, retail betting, retail sportsbooks, and the like.
Garage, Private – A detached Accessory Building or a portion of a main Building
, intended for the parking or storage of automobiles, motorized recreational
vehicles or boats owned by the occupants of the premises.
Garage Sale – The selling of personal and often previously-used property to the
general public conducted in or on any property containing a Dwelling ,
including yard sales, estate sales, neighborhood block sales, and the like.
This definition shall not include the selling of property that has
intentionally been acquired or collected for the purpose of resale,
consignment, flea markets, or any entity registered as a business with the Ohio
Secretary of State or the Ohio Department of Taxation.
Golf Course – An area of land specifically designed and laid out for playing
the game of golf. Such an area typically, but not always, consists of 9 or 18
holes and includes tees, fairways, putting greens, and may also include one or
more natural or artificial ‘hazards’. This definition shall not include the
game commonly known as miniature (mini) golf or facilities that primarily
consist only of driving ranges.
Governmental Facilities – Publicly owned or operated facilities, Building s,
Structure s, Sign s, or Use s, which deliver public services. Such facilities
shall include Essential Services , Governmental Recreational Facilities ,
Public Emergency Services , Public Service Facilities , Public Use Facilities ,
and Public Utilities , and may or may not be accessory, ancillary, incidental,
and/or temporary in nature and may be operated by a third-party on behalf of a
public agency.
Greenbelt – An Open Space that is designed and designated to retain and
conserve natural, undeveloped, fallow, wild, and/or agricultural land/water
surrounding, in whole or in part, a designated area such as a development,
neighborhood, or community. Such space may also include lands improved as a
park with traditional park amenities such as greens, gardens, recreational
fields, sidewalks, paths, trails, boardwalks, overlooks, playgrounds, gazebos,
picnic shelters, and the like.
Greenhouse/Hothouse – A Structure in which plants are grown. Said Structure s
are specifically designed for such a purpose and may be heated by any means.
Guest House –    A type of free-standing Accessory Dwelling providing
accommodations to caretakers, relatives, servants, visitors, and/or watchman
for an indefinite amount of time and not otherwise meeting the definition of a
Bed and Breakfast or Hotel .
Health Spa –    An establishment which provides Massage by a licensed
individual, baths, steam rooms, saunas, wellness facilities, and the like, but
which does not contain any elements which would constitute a Sexually Oriented
Business or Substance Abuse Treatment Clinic .
Height –    The vertical measurement of an object from bottom to top, as
follows:
   A)   Building Height , Non-Residential - The measurement from the average
grade along the front of the Building to the highest point of the Building .
This definition shall apply to Non-Residential Type Uses and Agricultural Type
Uses .
   B)   Building Height, Residential – For all Residential Type Uses , the
vertical distance from the average grade at the front of the Building to:
      1)   The highest point of a flat roof or any other type of roof not
otherwise specified herein;
      2)   The deck line of a Dutch, jerkinhead, or mansard roof;
      3)   The average height between the eave(s) and ridge(s) of any type of
bonnet, combination, dormer, gable, gambrel, hip, m-shape, and/or pyramid roof;
or
      4)   The average height between high and low points for any type of a-
frame, barrel-vaulted, butterfly, clerestory, conical, curved, dome, dropped
eave, hexagonal, monitor, saltbox, sawtooth, shed, and/or skillion roof.
   C)   Sign Height – The vertical distance from the uppermost point used in
measuring the Sign Area or the top of the Sign Structure , whichever is
greater, to the finished surface grade directly below it. Sign Height may not
be artificially increased using mounding.
   D)   Solar Facility Structure Height – See Structure Height .
   E)   Structure Height – The measurement from the average grade of the
Structure to the highest point of the Structure . This methodology shall also
apply to Aerial Antennas , Entry Feature s, Fences, Portable Storage Unit s,
Satellite Dish Antennas , Solar Facility  Structure s, Telecommunication Tower
s, but shall not apply to lighting (see Article
21), Sign s, or Wind Power Turbine Towers .
   F)   Wind Power Turbine Tower Height – The measurement of the length of a
prop at maximum vertical rotation to the base of the subject tower.
Home, Family Care –    A facility which is properly licensed but not meeting
the definition of Residential Care Facility , that provides room, board,
personal care, (re)habilitation services, and supervision in a Family setting
for no more than eight (8) total persons with developmental disabilities.
Home for Adjustment – A facility which is properly licensed but not meeting the
definition of Residential Care Facility , that provides therapy, counseling,
and a residential environment to adolescents and/or adults for one or more of
the following purposes:
   A)   To assist them in recuperating from the effects of drugs and/or
alcohol;
   B)   To assist them in adjusting to living with handicaps or emotional or
mental disorder in lieu of subsequent confinement within an institution; and/or
   C)   To provide housing and a supervised living arrangement in lieu of, or
subsequent to, placement within a correctional institution.
Home, Foster –    A facility which is properly licensed but not meeting the
definition of Residential Care Facility , that provides room, board, personal
care, (re)habilitation services, and supervision to children and/or
adolescents.
Home, Group Care – A facility which is properly licensed but not meeting the
definition of Residential Care Facility , that provides room, board, personal
care, (re)habilitation services, and supervision in a Family setting for more
than eight (8) but no more than sixteen (16) total persons with developmental
disabilities.
Home, Nursing – A facility which is properly licensed but not meeting the
definition of Residential Care Facility , that:
   A)   is used for the long-term reception and care of senior and/or disabled
individuals who, by reason of illness, physical disability, and/or mental
disability, require skilled nursing care, curative or palliative; and/or
   B)   is used for the long-term reception and care of senior and/or disabled
individuals who require personal care services but not skilled nursing care.
Home, Respite – A facility which is properly licensed but not meeting the
definition of Residential Care Facility , that provides short-term room, board,
personal care, (re)habilitation services, and supervision for individuals
suffering from a medical condition which impairs their ability to care for
themselves.
Home Occupation – An occupation conducted by an owner or residential tenant on
the same premises as their principal place of residence.
   A)   Low-Impact, Home Occupation: A type of Home Occupation that may
outwardly distinguish a residential Dwelling containing the occupation from a
residential Dwelling not housing an occupation, but in a limited manner, and as
such does not substantively alter or detract from the existing character of the
surrounding environment.
   B)   No-Impact Home Occupation: A type of Home Occupation that generally
does not outwardly distinguish a residential Dwelling containing the occupation
from a residential Dwelling not housing an occupation apart from the presence
of lawfully erected Sign s.
Hoover Reservoir Watershed – Any area of Genoa Township located within a
watershed boundary with the following Hydrologic Unit Code (HUC), as
established by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) between January 18,
2013, and September 12, 2017: 050600011306 (Prairie Run-Big Walnut Creek),
050600011307 (Duncan Run), and 050600011308 (Hoover Reservoir-Big Walnut
Creek).
Hospital – A licensed facility consisting of a Building or group of Building s
where sick and/or injured human patients are examined and potentially admitted
and lodged for one (1) or more nights, for surgery, treatment, and/or
convalescence by a licensed medical professional. Residential Care Facilities
and Substance Abuse Treatment Clinics, as defined in this Resolution, shall not
be considered a Hospital.
Hostel -   A facility offering transient, sociable lodging accommodations,
where guests rent a bed which may be in a room shared with others for a period
of thirty (30) consecutive days or less, but otherwise share bathrooms,
lounges, kitchens, living areas, and other such amenities. This definition
shall exclude Sexually Oriented Businesses as well as extended-stay hotels or
residential hotels defined by ORC 3731.01, as may be amended.
Hotel/Motel -   A private facility offering transient lodging accommodation(s)
and/or Dwelling s over a period of thirty (30) consecutive days or less to the
general public for a fee, including operations commonly known as a Hostel .
Such a Use contains five (5) or more rooms to be rented out for such purposes
and may also provide additional, incidental services, such as Drinking
Establishment s, Restaurant s, Event Facilities , meeting rooms, Swimming Pool
s, and recreational facilities, but shall not contain any elements of a
Sexually Oriented Business . For the purposes of this Zoning Resolution, this
definition shall also not include extended-stay hotels or residential hotels as
defined by ORC 3731.01, as may be amended.
Housing, Community-Based, Workforce, or Transitional – A facility not otherwise
defined herein that provides income-restricted Dwelling s within a Multi-Family
Building (s) and/or a facility providing temporary accommodations and support
for homeless individuals or individuals in need of protection from threats to
their welfare, such as domestic violence (e.g., shelters). Such facilities are
typically operated by a public body, institution, religious establishment ,
and/or nonprofit entity.
Housing, Senior and Disabled – A residential facility which is properly
licensed but not otherwise meeting the definition of Residential Care Facility
, that provides one or more of the following:
   A)   accommodations and supervision to six (6) or more unrelated senior or
disabled citizens; and/or
   B)   accommodations, supervision, personal care services, and/or skilled
nursing care for three (3) or more individuals who are dependent on the
services of others by reason of age, physical disability, or mental disability.
Illicit –   Unless otherwise protected by the First Amendment of the United
States Constitution; text, imagery, or, when related to Sign s, speech, that;
   A)   is directly related to inciting or producing imminent lawless action;
   B)   is integral to criminal conduct;
   C)   inflicts injury, tends to incite immediate breach of the peace, and
includes personally abusive epithets (i.e. “fighting words”);
   D)   is considered obscene under State or Federal law, be it judicial,
statutory, or regulatory;
   E)   is considered defamatory under State or Federal law, be it judicial,
statutory, or regulatory;
   F)   depicts Specified Anatomical Areas or Specified Sexual Activities ;
and/or
   G)   is considered child pornography.
Illumination, External –   In relation to Sign s, a constant (non-flashing )
source of light directed towards Sign s so that the beam falls upon the
exterior surface of the Sign and is arranged so that no direct rays of light
project from the artificial source into residences or streets.
Illumination, Internal –   In relation to Sign s, a source of illumination
enclosed entirely within the Sign and not directly visible from outside the
Sign .
Impervious Surfaces – Areas that have been paved and/or covered with Structure
s and materials which include, but are not limited to, concrete, asphalt,
rooftop, stone, brick, gravel, crushed aggregate, wood, plastic, and/or other
such materials. Hard surface alternatives purposely engineered or interspersed
with porous materials and recognized as being permeable, as well as decorative
landscape beds containing stone and rock gardens, shall be excluded from this
definition.
Incinerator – A facility containing an apparatus used for burning materials,
refuse, and/or waste, including organic materials. For the purposes of this
Resolution, a Crematorium shall not be considered an Incinerator.
Industrialized Unit – A Building unit or assembly of closed construction
fabricated in an off-site facility, that is substantially self-sufficient as a
unit or as a part of a greater Structure and that requires transportation to
the site of intended Use . Industrialized Unit includes units installed on the
site as independent units, as part of a group of units, or incorporated with
standard construction methods to form a completed structural entity.
Industrialized Unit does not include a Manufactured or Mobile Home as defined
herein.
Junk –    Any machinery, appliance, product, goods, or merchandise that is
missing one or more components, damaged, worn out, expired, spoiled, rotten,
Deteriorated , rusting, inoperable, unusable, or the like. This definition
shall also encompass Junk Vehicles and discarded materials, as well as scrap,
including copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, rubber, iron, steel, and
other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials which are not held for sale
or re-melting purposes by an establishment having facilities for processing
such materials.
Junk Vehicles – A vehicle, such as, but not necessarily limited to, an
automobile, Commercial Motor Vehicle , aircraft, and watercraft, shall be
deemed Junk or an inoperable vehicle whenever any two or more of the following
occur for a period of two weeks prior to the filing of a cease and desist
order:
   A)   The vehicle is without a valid, current registration and/or license
plate.
   B)   The vehicle is apparently inoperable.
   C)   The vehicle is without fully inflated tires and/or has any type of
support under it.
   D)   The vehicle has a missing or shattered window or windshield.
   E)   The vehicle has an extensively damaged or missing door, motor,
transmission or other similar major Mechanical or body part (such as a fender).
Junkyard – A Lot , Tract , or portion thereof utilized to store impounded
vehicles, Junk , and/or Junk Vehicles .
Kennel –    A Lot or premises not meeting the definition of Animal Park on
which five (5) or more domesticated animals (pets) more than four (4) months of
age, excluding dangerous wild animals as defined and regulated by ORC 935.01
(C), as may be amended, are housed, bred, boarded for any period of time,
rehabilitated, or sold exclusive of any Use meeting the definition of a
Veterinary Clinic and those operating strictly as a Retail Establishment .
Kiosk Facility, Self-Service – An establishment that primarily provides one or
more electronic devices used directly by consumers for the purposes of
conducting transactions, purchasing goods/services, picking up/dropping off
mail of all types, and/or engaging in other similar activities.
Laboratory – A facility equipped and utilized primarily for scientific
experiments, research, testing, product development, diagnostics, and other
such endeavors of an academic, medical, and/or innovative nature but that does
not engage in any kind of non-incidental Manufacturing activity.
Landfill – A disposal site in which refuse and waste materials, including
natural materials, are deposited and compacted in alternative layers.
Landing Pad/Strip – An area designed, designated, or frequently used for the
take-off, launching, and/or landing of aircraft, including airplanes, blimps,
drones, and helicopters. Such areas include those on the ground, those erected
as a standalone Structure , and those placed on top of a Structure .
Landscaping – The improvement of open areas by the planting and maintenance of
trees, bushes, flower gardens, grass, and other vegetation.
Landscaping Features – In addition to plants, any item not otherwise meeting
the definition of a Building , Fence , Sign , Structure , Swimming Pool , or
Retaining Wall or regulated herein, that is erected or placed to enhance the
aesthetics and/or functionality of a yard or exterior space. Examples of such
items include, but are not necessarily limited to, artificial streams, artwork,
at-grade patios/boardwalks/promenades, bat boxes, benches, bird baths,
birdhouses, decorative ponds, edging, flagpoles, fountains, garden beds, low-
intensity accent lighting, mounds, pavers, rockwork, statues, trellises,
walking stones, and the like.
Laundromat – Any business that provides home-type washing, drying or ironing
machines, and/or dry-cleaning machines for hire to be used by customers on the
premises for the purpose of laundering clothes, linens, and other such items.
LED –   Light Emitting Diode.
Legal Approval – Any approved Zoning Permit , Final Development Plan , Final
Development Plan Amendment, Variance request, or Conditional Use ; or any
Administrative Appeal decision rendered by the Board of Zoning Appeals .
Limited Common Element Area – A designated area immediately surrounding a
Building and/or Structure situated on commonly-owned property controlled by a
condominium association or other similar type entity, to which the individual
owning said Building and/or Structure has limited rights to improve in
accordance with applicable association covenants or other similar types of
restrictions.
Lot –    A platted parcel or other piece of land separately identified with a
unique Parcel Identification Number (PIN) in the County Auditor’s Records.
   A)   Corner Lot: A Lot abutting two (2) or more Streets at their
intersection, two (2) parts of the same Street , and in either case forming an
interior angle of one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees or less as measured at
the center line of the road or the interior Right-of-Way line as applicable.
   B)   Multi-Frontage Lot: A Lot having Frontage on two (2) or more non-
intersecting Streets or on two (2) or more approximately perpendicular portions
of the same Street .
   C)   Flag Lot: A Lot, typically configured in the shape of a flag , which:
has less than the minimum required Frontage on a Street , has access to a
Street via a narrow strip of land, and has the largest portion of the Lot
situated behind an adjoining Lot(s) which front(s) on a Street . Triangular or
pie-shaped Lots typically found at the terminus of a cul-de-sac shall not be
considered a Flag Lot.
   D)   Interior Lot: A Lot, other than a Corner or Multi-Frontage Lot , with
only one (1) Frontage on a Street .
   E)   Landlocked Lot: A Lot which does not have direct Contiguous  Frontage
on any Street or a Lot that is completely separated or removed from a Street by
another Lot. Such Lots are typically but not always accessed via a Common
Access Driveway (CAD).
Lot Area – The measurement of a horizontal plane of land and/or water bounded
by the applicable Front, Side, and Rear Lot Lines of a given Lot, typically
expressed in acres or square feet, but exclusive of any Street  Right-of-Way ,
existing or proposed, even if said Lot’s deed or recorded plat encompasses said
Right-of-Way .
Lot Coverage – That percentage of the Lot Area which, when viewed directly from
above, would be covered by Impervious Surfaces , Structure s (including
Building s), or any part thereof, excluding projecting roof eaves of less than
twenty-four (24) inches.
Lot Lines – Lines bounding the Lot as shown in the accepted plat or survey
record as further detailed below:
   A)   Front Lot Line : A Lot Line that either falls along a Street  Right-of-
Way line or the defined edge of a Private Street , existing or proposed;
subject to the following:
      1)   On Corner Lots and Multi-Frontage Lots , Lot Lines along all Street
 Right-of-Way lines and/or Private Street s as described herein shall be
considered Front Lot Lines.
      2)   The Front Lot Line for any Lot that is Contiguous to an authorized
Common Access Drive shall be the adjoining edge of said Common Access Drive.
Lots with Frontage on a Street that are also Contiguous to a Common Access
Driveway (or multiple Common Access Driveways), shall be treated similarly to a
Corner of Multi-Frontage Lot (i.e., the Lot Line along each shall be considered
a Front Lot Line ).
      3)   On a Landlocked Lot not serviced by an authorized Common Access
Drive, the Front Lot Line shall be the line closest and most parallel to the
Street said Lot ultimately accesses. Should the closest line not be
discernible, the Front Lot Line shall be considered the longest qualifying
line. Should, by any means, two (2) or more lines qualify, the Lot shall be
considered a Corner Lot .
      4)   On a Lot where the Street that is fronted is not located within a
clearly recorded Right-of-Way , the Front Lot Line shall be considered the edge
of any easement(s) platted and/or recorded for such purpose. If no such
easement exists, the Front Lot Line shall be considered the edge of the
pavement (including curb) of any Street immediately abutting said Lot. Should,
by any means, two (2) or more lines qualify, the Lot shall be considered a
Corner Lot .
   B)   Side Lot Line: A Lot Line which is neither a Front Lot Line nor a Rear
Lot Line . On Corner Lot s and Multi-Frontage Lot s, Lot Lines that do not meet
the definition of a Front Lot Line shall be considered a Side Lot Line .
   C)   Rear Lot Line: The Lot Line that is most distant from and most nearly
parallel to the Front Lot Line . If a Rear Lot Line is less than fifteen (15)
feet long, or if the Lot comes to a point, the Rear Lot Line shall be a line at
least fifteen (15) feet long, lying wholly within the Lot, parallel to, and a
maximum distance from the Front Lot Line . No Lot Line on a Corner Lot or
Multi-Frontage Lot shall be considered a Rear Lot Line .
Lot Width – See ‘Frontage ’.
Lounge –    An indoor room primarily designated and designed for relaxation in
chairs, sofas, and the like that is commonly found in non-residential Use s
such as, but not necessarily limited to, Club s, Hotels/Motels , and theaters.
Retail Establishment s, and transportation facilities, but excluding any such
room qualifying as a Sexually Oriented Business .
Makerspace – A workshop-like establishment which provides tools and equipment
for individuals to use in a communal setting for the purpose of innovation,
experimentation, crafting, and the creation of small or personal projects.
Activities include, but are not necessarily limited to, designing, engineering,
laser cutting, machining, metalworking, programming, sewing, woodworking, and
the like.
   A)   Makerspace, Large: Any such establishment having a gross Floor Area
greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   B)   Makerspace, Small: Any such establishment having a gross Floor Area
less than or equal to five thousand (5,000) square feet.
Malt or Brewed Beverages – Any beer, lager beer, ale, porter, or similar
fermented malt beverage containing one-half of one per centum or more of
alcohol by volume, by whatever name such beverage may be called, and shall also
include alcoholic cider and mead.
Manual –   An activity or operation conducted by an individual by hand or by
use of a handheld tool and does not utilize Mechanical assistance.
Manufactured Home – A non-self-propelled Building unit or assembly of closed
construction fabricated in an off-site facility, and which conforms with the
federal construction and safety standards established by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) pursuant to the “Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974,” and that has a label or tag
permanently affixed to it certifying compliance with all applicable federal
construction and safety standards. A Manufactured Home is transportable in one
or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more
in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length or, when erected on-site, is
three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis, designed to be used as a Dwelling with or without permanent
foundation when connected to required utilities. Calculations, used to
determine the number of square feet in a Structure’s exterior dimensions, are
measured at the largest horizontal projections when erected on-site. These
dimensions include all expandable rooms, cabinets, and other projections
containing interior space, but do not include bay windowsper ORC 4501.01. For
the purposes of this section, chassis means a steel frame specifically designed
and constructed with wheels or running gear and towing tongue installed for
transportation on public streets or highways and designed without the need for
a permanent foundation arriving at the site complete and ready for residential
occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations;
location on wheels, jacks, blocks, or other foundation , connection to
utilities and the like.
Manufacturing – Any Building , Structure , or land, or portion thereof,
utilized for the production, machining, processing, (dis)assembling,
fabricating, rendering, finishing, cleaning, testing, and the like of non-food
materials, goods, components, and/or products, both organic and inorganic.
   A)   Manufacturing, Heavy: A Manufacturing establishment that is typically
considered unclean, noisy, odorous, highly toxic, highly flammable/combustible,
volatile, (bio)hazardous, and/or is associated with other such reasonably
objectionable elements. Such a facility may also engage in the packaging and/or
distribution of such items. This definition shall not include Concreate and
Asphalt Batch Plants, Food Preparation/Wholesale Plant s, Food Processing and
Packaging Plant s, Fuel Generation Plants, or Light Manufacturing.
   B)   Manufacturing, Light: A Manufacturing establishment that is typically
considered to be clean, quiet, and non-odorous as well as not generally or
highly toxic, flammable, combustible, volatile, or (bio)hazardous. Such a
facility may also engage in the packaging and/or distribution of such items.
This definition shall not include Concreate and Asphalt Batch Plants, Food
Preparation/Wholesale Plant s, Food Processing and Packaging Plant s, Fuel
Generation Plants, or Heavy Manufacturing.
   C)   Manufacturing, Pilot: A Manufacturing establishment used to test
concepts and ideas and to determine physical layouts, materials flows/
processes, types of equipment required, costs, and other necessary information
prior to undertaking full-scale production. Such a Use may also include the
conduct of small-scale product runs under simulated production conditions and
is also subject to the definitions of Heavy Manufacturing and Light
Manufacturing herein this Article.
Marijuana - Cultivation, Dispensary, and/or Processing – Any and all activities
or operations described as such by ORC 3780 or 3796, as may be amended.
Marijuana, Medical – Cultivators, Processors, and Retail Dispensaries – Any and
all activities or operations described as such by ORC 3780 or 3796, as may be
amended.
Marina –   A commercial facility, wholly or partially situated on a body of
water, which contains one or more of the following; harbors, docks (wet or
dry), moorings, hangars, terminals, concourses, fueling stations, and the like
or any other Structure s, equipment, improvement, or open space utilized to
operate, track, repair, rent, lease, sell, test, store, display, detail, or
wash watercraft and/or any watercraft-related components, including private
seaports.
Marketplace, Indoor – A permanent commercial facility which rents out space
primarily within a Building to vendors, including Drinking Establishment s and
Restaurant s for the purpose of Retail . Such facilities are often arranged
around a hallway(s) and/or courtyard with limited and defined point(s) of
access. This definition shall also include qualifying Farm Market s not
otherwise exempted from zoning control in any way by ORC 519.21(C)(1) as may be
amended.
Marketplace, Outdoor – A permanent commercial facility which rents out space to
vendors for the purpose of Retail , but which does not otherwise meet the
definition of a Mobile Enterprise Court . This definition shall also include
qualifying Farm Market s not otherwise exempted from zoning control in any way
by ORC 519.21(C)(1) as may be amended.
Marquee –   Any permanently affixed roof-like Structure protruding beyond a
Building or extending along and protruding beyond the wall of a Building ,
which is fully supported by a Building and does not utilize columns, poles,
posts, or other similar types of supports.
Massage – A method of treating or stimulating the external parts of the human
body by rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping, touching, or vibrating with the
hand or any instruments for pay.
Massage Establishment, Therapeutic – A facility which offers Massages by a
licensed Massage  therapist(s) and/or physical therapist(s) licensed in the
State of Ohio, in exchange for compensation and solely for legitimate
therapeutic or medicinal purposes. This definition shall include the office of
a physician, surgeon, chiropractor, or osteopath, but shall not include any
Sexually Oriented Business  of any kind.
Mechanical – An activity or operation utilizing machines, computers, or other
non-Manual components to be achieved.
Medical Clinic – Any facility, not meeting the definition of Hospital or
Substance Abuse Clinic, where human patients are examined, treated, and/or may
have out-patient surgeries or procedures performed by a licensed professional,
such as a nurse, physician, chiropractor, dentist, or the like, but are not
admitted or lodged therein overnight or for any extended period, including
operations commonly known as surgical centers as well as blood banks.
   A)   Medical Clinic – Ancillary: Any such facility that is incidental,
accessory, and/or subordinate to a Principal Use and which does not
significantly or fundamentally alter the character of said Use .
   B)   Medical Clinic - Large: Any such facility with a gross Floor Area
greater than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   C)   Medical Clinic - Medium: Any such facility with a gross Floor Area
greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet but less than or equal to twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet.
   D)   Medical Clinic - Small: Any such facility with a gross Floor Area no
greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
Megawatt (MW) – A unit of power, equal to one million watts.
Minerals – Sand, gravel, clay, shale, gypsum, halite, limestone, dolomite,
sandstone, other stone, metalliferous or nonmetalliferous ore, or other
material or substance of commercial value excavated in a solid state from
natural deposits on or in the earth, but not including coal, peat, or topsoil.
Mobile Building – A transportable Building intended for permanent occupancy,
contained in one (1) or more sections, built on a permanent chassis which
arrives at a site completed and ready for occupancy except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, and constructed so that it may be
used with or without a permanent foundation . This definition includes
construction trailers as well as office trailers, classroom trailers, park
trailers, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and the like, which are
placed on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
Mobile Enterprise – A transportable unit that is not permanently sited but
otherwise operates as a Non-Residential Type Use and which does not meet the
definition of Mobile Home, Mobile Office , Mobile Service Business , or Mobile
Vending , including, but not necessarily limited to, exhibits, recreational
experiences, educational endeavors (e.g., classrooms), medical examinations,
and legitimate therapeutic services, but excluding anything meeting the
definition of a Sexually Oriented Business .
Mobile Enterprise Court – A permanent and primarily open-air commercial
facility that rents out three (3) or more defined spaces, stalls, or parking
spaces for the operation of Mobile Enterprises, Mobile Services, or Mobile
Vending businesses. Such facilities are frequently arranged around a common
pedestrian area, may or may not have a designated point(s) of access, and may
include other related, incidental features such as chairs, tables, fire pits,
games, and restrooms.
Mobile Home – A non-self-propelled Building unit or assembly of closed
construction that is fabricated in an off-site facility, built on a permanent
movable chassis which is eight (8) feet or more in width and more than thirty-
five (35) feet in length, which when erected on-site is three hundred twenty
(320) or more square feet, that is transportable in one or more sections and
which does not qualify as a Manufactured Home or Industrialized Unit .
Mobile Home Lot – An area of land within a Mobile Home Park , improved with
utility connections and other appurtenances necessary for the Erection thereon
of a single Mobile Home.
Mobile Home Park – Any establishment meeting the definition of Manufactured
Home Park in ORC 3733.01, as may be amended, excluding Camping Facilities,
Commercial and/or Private Recreational Facilities, and the like.
Mobile Office – A temporary, transportable unit used for real estate-related
business or construction purposes that is not permanently sited, and which is
located on the same Lot or Tract as the subject real estate or construction .
Mobile Service Business – A transportable unit that is not permanently sited
but otherwise operates as a Service Business or other similar type of service-
oriented operation that travels to sites or customers to provide or perform
their services on site. Such services may be performed within a vehicle or
trailer.
Mobile Vending Business – A transportable unit that is not permanently sited
that offers Restaurant and/or Retail services (e.g., food trucks), including
those that serve refreshments.
Multi-Family Building – A Building , typically located on one Lot , consisting
of a group of Dwelling s and/or lodging accommodations occupied for a period
exceeding thirty (30) consecutive days. Said Building contains either two (2)
or more Dwelling s within a Building having a common exterior access point or a
Building containing separate units with corresponding, separate access points
for three (3) or more Families not otherwise meeting the definition of a Row
Dwelling . Each unit shall be considered a Dwelling for the purposes of Density
. This definition shall not include Boarding House (s) and dormitories
(Dormitory ), nor shall it include extended-stay hotels and residential hotels
as defined by ORC 3731.01.
   A)   Multiplex (small): Any Multi-Family Building containing four (4) or
fewer dwellings:
      1)   Duplex: A type of Multi-Family Building containing exactly two (2)
Dwelling s; alternative names include Single-Family Dwelling (semi-attached ).
      2)   Triplex: A type of Multi-Family Building containing exactly three
(3) Dwelling s; alternative names include Single-Family Dwelling (Attached ).
      3)   Fourplex: A type of Multi-Family Building containing exactly four
(4) Dwelling s; alternative names include Single-Family Dwelling (Attached ).
   B)   Multiplex (medium): Any Multi-Family Building containing at least five
(5) but no more than twelve (12) Dwelling s, arranged vertically and/or
horizontally, and not otherwise meeting the definition of Row Dwelling .
   C)   Multiplex (large): Any Multi-Family Building containing thirteen (13)
or more Dwelling s, arranged vertically and/or horizontally, and not otherwise
meeting the definition of Row Dwelling .
Multi-Family Building Complex – A conglomeration of two (2) or more Multi-
Family Building s, regardless of sub-type, on the same Lot or Tract , or a
conglomeration of at least one (1) Multi-Family Building and any other type(s)
of Dwelling (s) on the same Lot or Tract . Such a complex may be arranged
around a shared, landscaped courtyard and/or a series of shared, landscaped
courtyards. Each Dwelling within the conglomeration shall count as one (1)
Dwelling for the purposes of calculating Density .
Multi-Use Path – An improved, designated way designed to accommodate multiple
recreation and transportation opportunities, such as, but not necessarily
limited to, walking, biking, skating, and commuting via wheelchair, or other
similar type of activity. Such ways are designed to accommodate, or permit
usage by, automobiles.
Museum – A facility in which objects of historical, scientific, artistic, and/
or cultural interest, including plants but excluding live animals, are stored
and exhibited for the purposes of research and education.
Natural Resource Extraction – Any Use which involves the drilling, exploration,
extrication, mining, or removal of naturally occurring elements or materials
such as coal, gravel, Minerals , natural gas, oil, sand, shale, soil, and/or
the like, including Surface Mining Operations as defined in ORC 1514.01, as may
be amended, and all associated components, Structure s, infrastructure, and
utilities.
Natural Resource Protection – Any development, improvement, or project
specifically intended to, and primarily designed for, the protection control,
preservation, and/or conservation of soil, water (including watersheds and
floodplains), air quality, plant life, wildlife, topography, habitats, and the
like as well as ecosystems such as, but not necessarily limited to, forests,
prairies, and wetlands.
Neighborhood-Scale Commercial – Pedestrian-Friendly  Use s, developments, and
or Structure s which are Context-Sensitive and do not exceed twenty-five
thousand (25,000) gross square feet in size.
Net Developable Acre – The product of gross acreage after the Net Developable
Area is subtracted.
Net Developable Area – Determined by deducting fifteen percent (15%) of the
subdivision’s gross acreage for streets and utilities plus all otherwise
unbuildable areas, as follows:
   A)   Jurisdictional wetlands, as defined in the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers’ Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual, Technical Report Y-
87-1, U.S. Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station, Vicksburg, Miss.
Jurisdictional wetlands as regulated by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as
may be amended, consist of hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and wetland
hydrology (this generally means they support more than fifty percent (50%)
wetland vegetation and are poorly drained soils which are periodically
inundated or saturated).
   B)   Flood Plain areas that lie within a FEMA 100-year flood plain, either
within elevations determined by FEMA, or mapped by FEMA, or as determined by
the Delaware County engineer for a development’s anticipated storm-water flow
path.
   C)   Slopes greater than twenty percent (20%), including ravines shown to be
critical resource areas on the Delaware County Regional Planning Commission
Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
   D)   Utilities, Rights-of-Way , and easements for above-ground and currently
existing utility structures such as above-ground pipelines, and overhead
electric transmission (not local service) wires that exist prior to the
Rezoning application.
   E)   Existing bodies of water.
Nightclub – Any non-residential place of assembly that primarily operates
during evening or nighttime hours, serves alcoholic beverages, and provides
space for dancing, live entertainment, games, or other similar types of social
activities. This Use is typically characterized by low light levels and closely
packed tables. Such an establishment may operate as a Restaurant during all or
part of its hours of operation. Such facilities may also be occasionally, but
not primarily, utilized as an Event Facility . This definition does not include
any elements that would qualify in any way as a Sexually Oriented Business as
defined in this Resolution.
Nits –   A unit of measure used for lighting expressed as candela per meter
squared.
No Build Zone – A clearly and specifically designated area in a Preliminary or
Final Development Plan where no Structure , except for Fences, Accessory Wall
s, and retaining wall s, shall be erected or permitted to extend in order to
preserve critical resources, be they natural, historical, and/or cultural.
No Disturb Zone – A clearly and specifically designated area in a Preliminary
or Final Development Plan where no Structure shall be erected or permitted to
extend into any zone nor shall any of the existing natural features be
disturbed, removed or physically altered, unless necessary to abate a
verifiable hazardous condition, in order to preserve an area’s natural
features, slope, soils, native vegetation, and/or water courses.
Non-conforming Building or Structure – A Building or Structure lawfully
existing at the time of enactment of this Resolution or subsequent amendments,
which does not conform to the regulations of the Zoning District in which it is
situated or other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
Non-conforming Lot – A Lot existing at the time of enactment of this Resolution
or any subsequent amendments that does not conform to the Lot Area and/or
Frontage requirements of the Zoning District in which it is located.
Non-conforming Sign - A pre-existing, legal Sign which does not conform to the
standards set forth in this Resolution.
Non-conforming Use – A Use of land lawfully existing at the time of enactment
of this Resolution or subsequent amendments, which does not conform to the
regulations of the Zoning District in which it is situated or other applicable
provisions of this Resolution.
Nudity or Semi-Nudity – Complete or partial showing or exposure of Specified
Anatomical Areas .
Nuisance – An offensive, annoying, unpleasant, or obnoxious thing, act, or
practice; a cause or source of annoyance, especially a continual or repeated
invasion of a Use or activity which invades the Lot Line of another and causes
significant harm or discomfort to the owner or resident of that property.
Excessive or noisy vehicular traffic, dust, glare, and smoke are examples of
nuisance s.
Nursery –    Any non-agriculturally exempt, non-residential establishment
primarily used to raise trees, shrubs, flowers, and other plants for wholesale,
Retail , and/or transplanting. Such a facility may also include Greenhouses,
Hot Houses, and the like.
   A)   Retail , Nursery: Any such establishment which primarily sells its
products on-site directly to the consumer for use by the consumer, so long as
said use is not Retail .
   B)   Wholesale, Nursery: Any such establishment which primarily sells or
distributes its products, often in bulk, to commercial or industrial entities,
but which may also be purchased on site by consumers for the purpose of Retail
.
ODOT –    The Ohio Department of Transportation.
Office –    A room or set of rooms where business, professional services, and/
or clerical tasks are administered and conducted, including information
technology support, call centers, and telephone answering services. Said space
(s) typically contain desk(s), computer(s), phone(s), printer(s), conference
furniture, and other such ancillary items that assist in performing and
supporting such functions.
   A)   Office – Ancillary: An Office operation(s) that is incidental,
accessory, and/or subordinate to a Principal Use and which does not
significantly or fundamentally alter the character of said Use .
   B)   Office - Large: An Office operation(s) with a gross Floor Area greater
than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   C)   Office - Medium: An Office operation(s) with a gross Floor Area greater
than five thousand (5,000) square feet but less than or equal to twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet.
   D)   Office - Small: An Office operation(s) with a gross Floor Area no
greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
Off-Road Motorized Vehicles – For the purposes of this Resolution Off-Road
Motorized Vehicles shall include the following: all-terrain vehicles,
snowmobiles, motorbikes, or what is commonly referred to as dirt bikes.
Off-Road Motorized Vehicle Track – Any designated way or course that is
generally utilized for racing, riding, or otherwise utilizing Off-Road
Motorized Vehicles .
Oil and Gas Production – Any and all activities recognized by ORC Section
1509.02, as may be amended.
Open Space – Land within a subdivision or development that is intended to
conserve and/or preserve the environment and shall generally not be built upon,
except for limited amenities authorized by this Resolution. Such land may be
further classified as Common Open Space , Improved Common Open Space , and/or
Natural Open Space . It does not include the areas of individual fee simple
Lots conveyed to homeowners Building Envelopes , or Limited Common Element
areas. Open Space land is typically owned by a homeowners’ association, the
Township, a land trust, or a conservation organization. The ownership of Open
Space shall be specified in a plat, deed, or Final Development Plan and may be
subject to the approval of the Township Trustees . This shall include:
   A)   Common Open Space – As used herein, designated Open Space areas and/or
parcels of land together with the improvements thereon, the use and enjoyment
of which shall be shared by the owners and occupants of the individual building
sites of the particular subdivision or development and is accessible to all
tenants or residents thereof but is not required to be open to the general
public.
   B)   Improved Common Open Space – Open Space set aside for passive or active
recreational purposes. These areas may contain Accessory Buildings and
improvements necessary and appropriate for recreational Use s as shown on the
development plan. If deemed appropriate by the township and permitted by
Delaware County and/or the State of Ohio, Improved Common Open Space may
incorporate land for on-site wastewater disposal.
   C)   Natural Open Space – Open Space land set aside in its natural
condition. Typical natural conditions might be, but are not limited to,
ravines, wetlands, floodplains, woods, scenic views, or appropriate Agriculture
.
Open Space Easement – A recorded legal instrument that permanently and
irrevocably protects land from future development. The easement shall be tied
to the title of the land regardless of the subsequent ownership of the land.
ORC –   The Ohio Revised Code.
Outdoor Advertising – See ‘Signs ’.
Outdoor Collection – The collecting of goods, often intended for charity via
donation, in a bin or receptacle, often placed within an Off-Street Parking Lot
.
Outdoor Display – The exhibiting of merchandise that is available for purchase
and/or is representative of merchandise that is available for purchase or rent
on the same premise in an open-air area not wholly or partially enclosed by a
Building , Structure , or Fence (i.e., outdoors).
Outdoor Storage – Storing or keeping of chattels which are generally not
available for purchase in a fully or quasi open-air area that is not otherwise
enclosed in a Building .
Parcel Identification Number (PIN) –   A unique set of digits assigned by
Delaware County used to designate and identify a specific and defined piece of
property.
Parking Facility – A space located totally outside of any street or alley
Right-of-Way for the parking of a regularly used automobile or other vehicle in
a designated area within a Structure consisting of two (2) or more levels which
may be above, at, and/or below ground level.
Parking Lot, Off-Street – A space located totally outside of any street or
alley Right-of-Way for the parking of a regularly used automobile or other
vehicle in a designated area of a surface lot.
Pedestrian-Friendly –   Defined as follows:
   A)   As it pertains to land Use , any Use that, by its very nature, is
convenient and safe for pedestrians and/or non-motorized vehicular traffic
(e.g., bicycles), excluding Use s not compatible with or promoting an
environment welcoming to pedestrians and/or non-motorized vehicles (e.g.,
bicycles), or are primarily oriented towards automobiles and other such
motorized vehicles, examples include, but are not necessarily limited to,
Automotive Fueling/Charging Stations, Automobile Repair , Automobile Wash ,
Commercial Motor Vehicle Repair, Drive-Through Facilities , Heavy Equipment
 Sales, Rental, and Service , Off-Street Parking Lot , Parking Facility , Truck
Terminals, Vehicle Sales, Rental, and Service , and Waste Transfer Facility .
   B)   As it pertains to land development, any development or area within a
development which is designed to accommodate pedestrians and/or non-motorized
vehicles (e.g., bicycles) with sidewalks, trails, bikeways, multi-use paths,
and other such related amenities being provided to the greatest extent
practicable throughout the development and providing for connections to
adjacent Use s, developments, and/or Open Space where practical and feasible
for the benefit of the aforementioned.
   C)   As it pertains to a Building or Structure , any such Building or
Structure which has been primarily designed to accommodate pedestrians and/or
non-motorized vehicles (e.g., bicycles), especially as it pertains to access,
amenities, articulation, detail, focal points, form, height, length, massing,
materials, proportion, rhythm, scale, size, texture, and transparency.
Pedestrian-Oriented –   (see Pedestrian-Friendly ).
Pedestrianway – Sidewalks, walkways, crosswalks, trails, paths, and the like,
including multi-use paths and bikeways, designed specifically for use by non-
motorized traffic.
Pennant –   A piece or pieces of lightweight plastic, cloth, fabric, or other
similar type of materials that is designed to move in the wind, typically, but
not always, rectangular or triangular in shape, individually supported or
attached to each other by means of string, rope, or other such material; and
meant to be stretched across or fastened to Building s; or between poles,
posts, Structure s, or other such features.
Permanently Sited Manufactured Housing – Manufactured housing constructed and
located pursuant to the definition in ORC 3781.06 (C)(6) and further meeting
the following standards:
   A)   Be constructed pursuant to the HUD Code (Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 88 stat.700, 42 U.S.C.A. 5401
and 5403) after January 1, 1995. It must also have a permanent label or tag
Attached to it as specified in 42 U.S.C.A 5415, certifying compliance with all
federal construction and safety standards.
   B)   Be Attached to a permanent foundation (defined in ORC 3781.06 as
permanent masonry, concrete or locally approved footing or foundation ).
   C)   Be connected to appropriate facilities (water, sanitary sewage
disposal, and electric).
   D)   Have a length of at least twenty-two (22) feet and a width of at least
twenty-two (22) feet, as manufactured.
   E)   Conform to the minimum size of living area, by zoning standards herein.
   F)   Have conventional residential siding (i.e., lap, clapboard, shake,
masonry, and vertical natural materials), a 6-inch minimum eave overhang, and a
minimum “A” roof pitch of 3:12.
   G)   Not be located in a Manufactured Home park as defined by ORC 3733.01
may be amended.
   H)   Meet all applicable zoning requirements uniformly imposed (i.e. minimum
Lot Area ; Setback s; minimum Dwelling square footage; all indicia of mobility
be removed upon placement upon its foundation ) on all Single-Family Dwelling s
in the District, (excepting contrary requirements for minimum roof pitch and
requirements that do not comply with HUD code standards for manufactured
housing).
Planned Development – When all the following apply:
   A)   Land under unified control planned and developed as a whole in a
Planned Zoning District ;
   B)   A single development or a definitely programmed series of development
operations, including all lands and Building s;
   C)   Accomplished according to comprehensive and detailed plans which
include not only streets, utilities, Lots , or building sites and the like, but
also site plans and design principles for all Building s as intended to be
located, constructed, used, and related to each other; and detailed plans for
other Use s and improvements on the land as related to Building s; and
   D)   A program for the provision, operation, and maintenance of a land area
including improvements and facilities necessary for common Use by some or all
the occupants of the development, but which will not be provided, operated, or
maintained at general public expense.
Pool House – A free-standing Accessory Building located within relatively and
reasonably close proximity of a Swimming Pool on the same Lot or Tract which
provides a private space for individuals to change into and out of swimsuits,
bathrooms, kitchenette, and/or storage space for pool-related accessories but
which does not contain bedrooms or otherwise function as a Dwelling of any type
or Guest House .
Porch –    A covered space located on any side of a Building with a roof
supported by columns and Attached to the main Structure but not considered an
integral part of the main Structure .
Portable Storage Unit – A container typically placed on a lawn, driveway, or
parking area, which is designed to temporarily hold chattels, supplies,
building materials, and/or waste (including portable toilets), due to
renovations, relocation, repairs, construction , or another type of temporary
event or activity.
Primary Conservation Area – An area comprised of steep slopes (over 20%),
unmitigated wetlands, watercourses, intermittent streams, and/or 100-year
floodplains.
Principal Building or Structure – For each property, the Building or Structure
that one or more persons occupy the majority of time on that property for
either business or personal reasons, including residences but excluding hunting
sheds, storage sheds, Pool House s, detached garages, Barns, and other such
Accessory Buildings or Structure s.
Principal Use – The land Use designation(s) given to a Lot or Tract based upon
the primary or predominant activity/activities occurring on such Lot or Tract .
Professional Engineer – An individual who is actively licensed to practice
engineering.
Public Service Facility – The Erection , construction , Alteration , operation
or maintenance of Building s, power plants or substations, water treatment
plants or pumping stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants, wells, damns,
reservoirs, and other similar public service structures or Essential Services
provided by a Public Utilities , by a railroad, whether publicly or privately
owned or by a municipal or other governmental agency, including all tangible
and intangible personal property without limitation, any means and
instrumentalities in any manner owned, operated, leased, licensed, uses,
controlled, furnished, or supplied for, by, or in connection with, the business
of any public utility for the purpose of providing electrical, gas, rail or
passenger bus transport, communication, public water and sewerage services.
Public Use Facility – Government-owned facilities to which the public has
access, such as public parks, schools, school administrative Building s,
recreational, cultural, and service Buildings, but not including public land or
Building s devoted solely to the storage and maintenance of equipment and
material or the disposal of refuse.
Publishing Facility – Any facility primarily utilized for the mass production
and Manufacturing of hard copy media such as, but not necessarily limited to,
books, cassettes, discs, magazines, mailers, manuals, newspapers, periodicals,
vinyl records, and the like.
Racetrack – A fully or quasi outdoor nonresidential facility that is primarily
utilized for the racing of animals, automobiles, bicycles, remote controlled
devices, sleds, vehicles (motorized and non-motorized), and the like on a
circuit, course, strip, and/or track and which may include seating for
spectators as well as barns, garages, stalls, and other such associated care,
maintenance, storage, and/or repair Structure s.
Recreation and/or Instructional Facility – Private facilities, not otherwise
defined herein this Resolution, that provide patrons the opportunity to learn
about, train, observe, and/or partake in activities such as those related to
art, athletics, computing, cooking, dancing, fitness, gaming, gymnastics,
music, and the like, but which do not otherwise offer lodging of any type or
qualify as a Sexually Oriented Business .
   A)   Indoor Recreation and/or Instructional Facility – Any such facility in
which the activities described herein above occur solely within the confines of
a Building and which are generally no more observable or perceivable to an
external individual than any other business conducted within a similar type of
Structure .
   B)   Outdoor Recreation and/or Instructional Facility – Any such facility in
which the activities described herein above occur wholly or partially outdoors
(i.e., outside) and/or which are reasonably observable or perceivable by an
external individual regardless of whether said individual is on or off
premises.
Recreational Facilities, Governmental – Facilities operated by Genoa Township,
or other governmental entities, that are open to the public with or without
charge for purposes of enjoying activities related to athletics, Camping ,
culture, education, fitness, fishing, games, hunting, nature, social
engagement, and the like.
Recycling Collection Facility –   An establishment where recyclable materials
are collected by donation, redemption, or purchase and which may include
reverse vending machines.
   A)   Recycling Collection Facility, Large – Any such facility which occupies
an area of more than five hundred (500) square feet, and which may include
permanent Structure s.
   B)   Recycling Collection Facility, Small – Any such facility which occupies
an area less than five hundred (500) square feet and which may include:
      1)   a mobile recycling unit;
      2)   a single bulk reverse vending machine or a group of reverse vending
machines which occupy an area of more than fifty (50) square feet; and/or
      3)   kiosk-type units, which may include a permanent Structure .
Refacing –   Any Alteration to the face of a Sign involving the replacement of
materials or pans. Refacing does not refer to replacing the entire Sign
Structure or the removal of the Sign .
Religious Establishment – Any Building , Structure , Lot , or Tract , or
portion thereof, used primarily as a place of worship, religious teaching,
religious ceremonies, or faith-based activities and which may include
incidental or related Use s that enable the practice of religion, provide for
the administration of the facility, support the congregation, and/or serve the
community, such as, but not necessarily limited to; sanctuaries, chapels,
Private Educational Institution s, Day Care Establishments, Event Facilities ,
cafes, Auditorium s, theaters, performance halls, Offices, Dwelling s for
persons serving the establishment, recreational facilities, and the like.
Research and Development Facility – A Structure or complex of Structure s
designed, or primarily used for, study, experiments, testing, and other such
functions related to industry, science, technology, and other similar fields of
endeavor. Such facilities may include supporting storage and transportation
facilities, as well as Laboratories and Pilot Manufacturing facilities as
Accessory Uses .
Residential Care Facility – Per the ORC , as may be amended:
   5123.19(A)(5)(a) – A home or facility, including an ICF/IID, in which an
individual with mental retardation or development disability resides.
   5119.34(B)(1)(a) – A publicly or privately-operated home or facility that
provides … accommodations, supervision, personal care services, and community
mental health services for one (1) or more unrelated adults with mental illness
or severe mental disabilities or to one (1) or more unrelated children and
adolescents with a serious emotional disturbance or who are in need of mental
health services.
   5119.34(B)(1)(b) – Accommodations, supervision, and personal care services
to any of the following:
      (i)   One (1) or two (2) unrelated persons with mental illness or persons
with severe mental disabilities;
      (ii)   One (1) or two (2) unrelated adults who are receiving residential
state supplement payments; or
      (iii)   Three (3) to sixteen (16) unrelated adults.
   5119.34(B)(1)(c) – Room and board for five or more unrelated adults with
mental illness or severe mental disability who are referred by or are receiving
community mental health services from a community mental health services
provider, Hospital , or practitioner.
Restaurant – Any permanently sited establishment operated for the express
purpose of providing meals and/or snacks to patrons in exchange for
compensation. Such establishments may serve alcohol, offer outdoor dining, and/
or incidental, related amenities or entertainment, but do not feature
components otherwise specific to an Event Facility , Nightclub , or Sexually
Oriented Business .
   A)   Restaurant, Delivery-Only – A permanently sited Restaurant facility
where individual meals are prepared and delivered from following orders placed
by consumers via internet or phone, commonly known as a ghost kitchen.
   B)   Restaurant, Full-Service – A permanently sited Restaurant facility
where individual meals are served to patrons for consumption on the premises.
Such operations may or may not provide table service and may also offer
delivery and/or take-out as ancillary services.
   C)   Restaurant, Limited-Service – A permanently sited Restaurant facility
where primarily food and/or drinks that are typically unpackaged, made on site,
and/or fresh, are sold from, but which may or may not be consumed on premise
such as, but not necessarily limited to standalone: bakeries, butcher shops,
cafes, coffee shops, concession stands, delicatessens, donut shops, ice cream
shops, produce shops, take-out/carry out-only shops, and the like.
Retail –    The sale of goods, products, wares, medication, commodities, and
the like, excluding fuel, directly to consumers. This definition shall include
rental and lease-to-own operations (e.g., video, attire, furniture,
electronics, appliances, sports and exercise equipment, et al) not otherwise
defined in this Resolution as well as consignment shops and the selling of
property that has intentionally been acquired or collected for the purpose of
resale but shall not include pawn brokering services (see Cashing and/or
Lending Business ).
   A)   Retail Establishment – A permanently sited facility not otherwise
defined herein which is utilized for the purpose of Retail in which goods,
including clothing, groceries, home goods, personal care items, and
pharmaceuticals, are typically purchased directly by the consumer on premises.
This definition shall include establishments which offer incidental pre-
ordering, carry-out, and/or pick-up of goods, but shall exclude Retail
Warehouse s or Sexually Oriented Businesses.
      1)   Ancillary Retail Establishment: A Retail operation that is
incidental, accessory, and/or subordinate to a Principal Use and which does not
significantly or fundamentally alter the character of said Use .
      2)   Large Retail Establishment: A Retail operation with a gross Floor
Area greater than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      3)   Medium Retail Establishment: A Retail operation with a gross Floor
Area greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet but less than or equal to
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      4)   Small Retail Establishment: A Retail operation with a gross Floor
Area no greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
Retaining Wall – A Structure specifically designed and constructed to hold back
earth and/or water.
Rezoning – See ‘Zoning Map Amendment ’.
Riding Academy – See ‘Stables, Commercial ’.
Right-of-Way – A designated strip of property taken/dedicated and recorded for
a public access or purpose such as highways/roadways, railways, and/or
utilities. In the case of roadways, in addition to driving lanes, it may
encompass curbs, lawn strips, sidewalks, street lighting, utility
infrastructure, drainage facilities, and other such features related to
functionality, safety, topography, noise, communication, aesthetics, and the
like. Such designation may be made in the form of a deeded right-of-way,
highway/roadway easement, or other similar type of legal mechanism.
Road –    See ‘Thoroughfare ’.
Roadside Stand – A Temporary Structure not otherwise qualifying as a Farm
Market that is designed or used for the display or sale of agricultural
products produced on the premises upon which such a stand is located.
Sales, Rental, and Service – Any of the Use s defined below:
   A)   Commercial Motor Vehicle Sales, Rental, and Service – Any Building ,
Structure , Lot , Tract , or portion thereof, in/upon which a business or
industry sells, leases, rents, or performs or renders a service involving the
retailing, leasing, renting, maintaining, servicing, repairing, towing, or
washing of a Commercial Motor Vehicle . This definition shall also include the
rental of space for the storage of the aforementioned. The salvaging or storage
of Junk Vehicles , otherwise meeting the definition of a Commercial Motor
Vehicle , shall be considered a Junkyard .
   B)   Event Sales, Rental, and Service – Any establishment utilized for the
retailing, leasing, renting, maintaining, or repairing of equipment commonly
utilized during parties or events such as, but not necessarily limited to,
audio/video equipment, tents, canopies, tables, chairs, linens, dance floors,
stages, stalls, racks, easels, bounce houses, games, photobooths, concession
equipment, grills, bars, dispensers, coolers, dishware, cutlery, fans, heaters,
barricades, portable restrooms, waste receptacles, and the like.
   C)   Heavy Equipment Sales, Rental, and Services – Any establishment
utilized for the retailing, leasing, renting, maintaining, servicing,
repairing, towing, or washing of Heavy Equipment . This definition shall also
include the rental of space for the storage of the aforementioned.
   D)   Light Equipment Sales, Rental, and Service – Any establishment utilized
for the retailing, leasing, renting, maintaining, servicing, repairing, towing,
or washing of Light Equipment . This definition shall also include the rental
of space for the storage of such equipment only if said storage occurs
outdoors; otherwise, the rental of such space to store such items shall
constitute a Mini and/or Self-Storage Warehouse .
   E)   Machine Sales, Rental, and Service – Any Building , Structure , or land
utilized for the retailing, leasing, renting, maintaining, servicing,
repairing, towing, washing of machines and/or equipment utilized for the
Manufacturing , production, machining, processing, cleaning, testing and
distribution of materials, goods, tools, dies, molds, jigs, fixtures, gauges,
foodstuffs, and/or products and which is not considered to be Heavy Equipment
or Light Equipment as defined in this Resolution.
   F)   Manufactured. Mobile, or Recreational Building/Vehicle Sales, Rental,
and Service – Any Building , Structure , Lot , Tract , or portion thereof, in/
upon which a business or industry sells, leases, rents, or performs or renders
a service involving the detailing, maintenance, servicing, repairing, towing,
or washing of a Manufactured Home , Mobile Home, or Mobile Building , as well
as Camping and Recreational Equipment and Off-Road Motorized Vehicles . This
definition shall also include the rental of space for the storage of the
aforementioned. The salvaging or storage of such items meeting the definition
of Junk for purposes such as, but not necessarily excluding, Retail , or
scraping, and not otherwise intended to be repaired and returned to the owner
or put back into service, shall be considered a Junkyard .
   G)   Vehicle Sales, Rental, and Service – Any Building , Structure , Lot ,
Tract , or portion thereof, in/upon which a business or industry sells, leases,
rents motor vehicles excluding Commercial Motor Vehicle s, Mobile Building s,
Mobile Homes, aircraft, recreational vehicles (RVs), campers (aka fifth
wheels), travel trailers, trailers used for hauling, watercraft, and the like.
Such Use often performs or renders services involving the detailing,
maintaining, repairing, servicing, towing, and/or washing of such vehicles.
This definition shall also include the rental of space for the storage of the
aforementioned. The salvaging or storage of Junk Vehicles for purposes such as,
but not necessarily excluding, Retail , or scraping, and not otherwise intended
to be repaired and returned to the owner or put back into service, shall be
considered an Automobile Salvage /Junkyard or a Junkyard .
   H)   Watercraft Sales, Rental, and Service – Any Building , Structure , Lot
, Tract , or portion thereof, not otherwise meeting the definition of Marina ,
in/upon which a business or industry sells, leases, rents, or performs or
renders a service involving the maintenance, servicing, repair, detailing, or
washing of watercraft. This definition shall also include the rental of space
for the storage of watercraft on land not otherwise considered a Marina . The
salvaging or storage of Junk Vehicles , otherwise meeting the definition of a
Commercial Motor Vehicle , shall be considered a Junkyard .
Satellite Dish Antenna – Satellite dishes shall mean one or more of the
following:
   A)   A signal receiving device (antenna, dish antenna, or dish type
antenna), the purpose of which is to receive communication or other signals
from satellites in earth orbit and other extra-terrestrial sources.
   B)   A low noise amplifier (LNA) which is situated at the focal point of the
receiving component and the purpose of which is to magnify, store, transfer
and/or transmit electronic or light signals.
Secondary Conservation Area – Land typically consisting of upland forest,
meadows, pastures, and farm fields that are part of the ecologically connected
matrix of natural areas significant for wildlife habitat and/or water quality
protection, historic, archeological or cultural features listed (or eligible to
be listed) on national, state, or county registers or inventories, and scenic
views into the property from existing public roads and other reasons.
Service Business – A commercial enterprise that provides services in exchange
for compensation that does not otherwise qualify as a Kennel , Sexually
Oriented Business , or any other expressly defined Use within this Resolution.
This definition shall further include:
   A)   Service Business – Charitable: A private, non-residential enterprise
typically operated by a non-profit or charity that primarily provides social
support, goods, and services to those in need, including free stores, food
banks, meal centers, soup kitchens, and the like.
   B)   Service Business – Contract: Enterprises that primarily conduct their
services off-site, but which may keep a fleet of vehicles and/or dispatch said
services from on-site. Examples of such enterprises include but are not
necessarily limited to those related to construction , installation,
demolition, grading, paving, Landscaping , lawn care, and the like as well as
the maintenance, repair, and/or improvement of Building s, Structure s,
drainage, utilities, locks, appliances, electronics, telecommunications, safety
systems, Mechanical equipment, machines, vehicles/crafts, and/or components
thereof. This term shall not encompass any such enterprise that qualifies as a
Contractor’s Yard or any service, improvements, or activities related to the
related to automobiles or motorized vehicles that occur on-site.
   C)   Service Business – Education: Enterprises not otherwise meeting the
definition of an Educational Institution that offer on-site tutoring, exam
preparation, professional development courses, and testing services.
   D)   Service Business – In-Home: Enterprises that primarily conduct their
services off-site and which keep a fleet of vehicles and/or dispatch said
services from on-site. Examples of such enterprises include but are not
necessarily limited to, those providing in-home services related to assisted
living, cleaning, grooming, tutoring, training, healthcare, hospice, and
respite care.
   E)   Service Business – Personal Care: Enterprises that primarily provide
their services, which typically aid individual, non-medical needs of humans, on
premises. Examples of such enterprises include, but are not necessarily limited
to, barbershops, hair salons, nail salons, tanning salons, beauty parlors,
Therapeutic Massage Establishments , and/or the like.
   F)   Service Business - Pet: Enterprises that primarily provide non-medical
pet-related services, such as grooming and training, on premises but shall
exclude any activities meeting the definition of a Kennel or a Veterinary
Clinic .
   G)   Service Business – Professional: Enterprises that primarily provide
their non-medical services to humans and/or businesses and not otherwise
defined herein. Examples of such enterprises include, but are not necessarily
limited to, dry-cleaning drop-off/pick-up, tailoring/alterations, embroidery,
engraving, printing (screen or paper), copying, scanning, photofinishing,
inspecting, surveying, mapping, notarizing, stenographing, administering
clerical services, packaging/mailing services not otherwise functioning as
Distribution Center Warehouse , and/or the like.
   H)   Service Business – Repair: Enterprises that primarily provide their
services, which typically aid in the rehabilitation or replacement of parts or
components in household goods, electronics, and devices, on premise. Examples
of such enterprises include, but are not necessarily limited to, shops which
repair shoes, jewelry, watches, clocks, furniture, bicycles, home audio/video
equipment, small home appliances, computers, gaming systems, telecommunication
devices (analog, digital, wireless, etc.), and/or other such items not
otherwise defined herein.
   I)   Service Business – Support: Enterprises that primarily conduct their
services off-site, but which may keep a fleet of vehicles and/or dispatch for
such services, on-site. Examples of such enterprises include but are not
necessarily limited to those related to pest management, traffic control,
supply services, security services, janitorial services, cash management,
repossession, and the like. This term shall not encompass any such enterprise
that qualifies as a Contractor’s Yard or any service, improvements, or
activities related to the related to automobiles or motorized vehicles that
occur on-site.
Setback – An imaginary line, parallel to a Lot Line extending the full
dimension of the Lot , representing the distance which all or any part of any
Structure or Building is to be set back from the Lot Line . Setback s shall
further be defined as:
   A)   Front Setback Line: An imaginary line, parallel to the Front Lot Line
(s), extending the full width of the Lot , representing the distance which all
or any part of any Structure or Building is to be setback from the Front Lot
Line (s).
   B)   Side Setback Line: An imaginary line parallel to any Side Lot Line (s)
representing the distance which all or any part of any Principal Building is to
be set back from the Side Lot Line (s).
   C)   Rear Setback Line: An imaginary line parallel to any Rear Lot Line
representing the distance which all or any part of any Principal Building is to
be set back from the Rear Lot Line .
Sewage Disposal System, Central – A wastewater treatment system, approved by
the appropriate county, state, city and/or federal agencies, which provides a
collection network and a central wastewater treatment facility for a single
development, a community, or a region.
Sewage Disposal System, On-site – A septic tank or similar installation on an
individual Lot which utilizes an aerobic or anaerobic bacteriological process
or equally satisfactory process approved by the Delaware County, Ohio, Board of
Health or the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, for the treatment of
sewage, and provides for the proper and safe disposal of the effluent.
Sexually Oriented Business – Any Building , Structure , Lot , Tract , premise,
facility, or establishment, or portion thereof, utilized for one or more of the
following:
   A)   Adult Arcade – Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated, slug-operated, or, for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically, virtually, or mechanically controlled Amusement
Device, still or motion-picture machines, projectors, video, laser, or digital
disc players, other image-producing devices, including any and all
technological and/or virtual successors, both known and unknown, to the
aforementioned, are maintained, not located within viewing booths, to show
images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by the depicting or
describing of Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas .
   B)   Adult Book Store – Any Building , Structure , or facility having a
substantial or significant portion of its stock and trade in prurient products,
materials, goods, or media; or an Adult Establishment which, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for sale, display, rental, or other
consideration, the following:
      1)   Books, magazines, novelties, goods, periodicals, printed matter,
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, video reproductions,
slides, CD-ROM discs, computer software, other similar type of media, any and
all other technological and/or virtual successors, both known and unknown, to
the above, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical
Areas .
      2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with Specified Sexual Activities .
      3)   The use of viewing booths.
   C)   Adult Cabaret – A Drinking Establishment , Nightclub , bar, Restaurant
, or other such establishment which regularly features, one (1) or more of the
following, in whole or in part:
      1)   Persons who appear in a state of Nudity or Semi-Nudity .
      2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
Specified Anatomical Areas or by Specified Sexual Activities .
      3)   Films, motion pictures, projections, video cassettes, slides, or
other photographic reproductions or visual presentations of any other kind,
including any and all technological and/or virtual successors, both known and
unknown, of such, which are characterized by the depiction or description of
Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas .
   D)   Adult Entertainment – Any material or performance where any of the
following apply:
      1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest;
      2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
Specified Sexual Activities , Specified Anatomical Areas , sexual excitement,
or Nudity in a way that tends to represent human beings as mere objects of
sexual appetite;
      3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality;
      4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose; or
      5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of Specified Sexual
Activities , Specified Anatomical Areas , sexual excitement, Nudity ,
bestiality, extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, brutality, or human bodily
functions or elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency
to appeal to prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an
interest is primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather
than primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   E)   Adult Entertainment Business –    Any establishment involved in the
sale of services, experiences, accommodations, or products characterized by the
exposure or presentation of Specified Anatomical Areas , Specified Sexual
Activities , or physical contact of persons, and which is characterized by
salacious conduct to prurient interest for observation or participation in by
patrons. Services or products include but are not necessarily limited to:
photography, dancing, reading, Massage , Escort, Dating, or Companion Services,
and similar functions which utilize activities as specified above.
   F)   Adult Establishment – One or more of the following:
      1)   The opening or commencement of any Sexually Oriented Business as a
new business.
      2)   The conversion of any existing business, sexually oriented or not,
to any Sexually Oriented Business .
      3)   The addition of any Sexually Oriented Business to any other existing
Sexually Oriented Business or to a non-Sexually Oriented Business.
      4)   The relocation of any Sexually Oriented Business .
   G)   Adult Motion Picture Theater – Any establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions or visual presentations of any kind, including any
and all technological and/or virtual successors, both known and unknown, are
regularly shown which are characterized by the depiction or description of
Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas .
   H)   Adult Novelty Store – See ‘Adult Book Store’ .
   I)   Adult Theater – A theater, concert hall, auditorium , Event Facility ,
or similar commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear
in a state of Nudity or Semi-Nudity , or live performances which are
characterized by the exposure of Specified Anatomical Areas or by Specified
Sexual Activities .
   J)   Adult Video Store – See ‘Adult Book Store ’.
   K)   Escort, Dating, or Companionship Agency – A person or business
association that furnishes, offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts
for a fee as part of its business.
   L)   Massage Establishment, Non-Therapeutic – A facility offering Massages
by unlicensed massage therapists in exchange for compensation. This definition
shall not be construed to include a Hospital , Residential Care Facility , or
Medical Clinic or any barber shop or beauty salon in which Massages are
administered only to the scalp, the face, the neck, or the shoulder.
   M)   Nude Model Studio – Any place where a person who appears in a state of
Nudity or Semi-Nudity , or who displays Specified Anatomical Areas and is
provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or
similarly depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
This definition shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the State of
Ohio or a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or in part
by public taxation; a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a
university, college, and/or junior college supported entirely or partly by
taxation; or in a Structure :
      1)   That has no Sign (s) visible from the exterior of the Structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing.
      2)   Where, to participate in a class, a student must enroll at least
three (3) days in advance of the class.
      3)   Where no more than one (1) nude or semi-nude model is on the
premises at any one time.
   N)   Sexual Encounter Center – Any business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration
one or more of the following:
      1)   Physical contact of a sexual nature in the form of wrestling or
tumbling, which may or may not feature Adult Entertainment .
      2)   Activities of a sexual nature between people of any gender
identification or orientation in which one (1) or more of the persons is in a
state of Nudity or Semi-Nudity .
      3)   Virtual contact of a sexual nature, which may or may not feature
Adult Entertainment .
Shopping Center – An establishment containing a mix of Drinking Establishment
s, Restaurant , Retail Establishment s, and other compatible Use s and
enterprises, developed, and typically recognized as, a single entity on a Lot
or Tract ; further defined as:
   A)   Shopping Center, Regional: A Shopping Center with a gross Floor Area
greater than sixty-five thousand (65,000) square feet.
   B)   Shopping Center, Community: A Shopping Center with a gross Floor Area
greater than twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet but less than or equal
to sixty-five thousand (65,000) square feet.
   C)   Shopping Center, Neighborhood: A Shopping Center with a gross Floor
Area less than or equal to twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet.
Short-Term Rental – “Short Term Rental” means the use and occupancy of any
Dwelling or any part thereof for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive
days by persons other than the permanent occupant or owner from which the
permanent occupant or owner receives monetary compensation, For the purposes of
this Zoning Resolution, this definition shall not include extended-stay hotels
or residential hotels as defined by ORC 3731.01, as may be amended.
Short-Term Rental Complex – “Short-Term Rental Complex” means the use and
occupancy of an Dwelling or establishment containing more than one (1) Short-
Term Rental and/or a quasi-residential Structure (s) that often mimics the look
and functionality of a Multi-Family Building or Multi-Family Building Complex
but does not contain any elements of a Sexually Oriented for a period of less
than thirty (30) consecutive days by persons other than the permanent occupant
or owner from which the permanent occupant or owner receives monetary
compensation. For the purposes of this Zoning Resolution, this definition shall
not include extended-stay hotels or residential hotels as defined by ORC
3731.01, as may be amended.
Sign –    Text, illustrations, shapes, numbers, emblems, symbols, or images
which are affixed to, portrayed, or depicted directly or indirectly upon any
part of a Building , Structure , Lot , and/or Tract . This definition includes
all Sign s visible from any public Right-of-Way or adjacent property. This
definition shall not include text, illustrations, shapes, numbers, emblems,
symbols, or images which are incidental to an individual product not
customarily used as a Sign nor shall they pertain to any such items which are
primarily displayed for celebratory and/or decorative purposes, and which may
be typically erected seasonally or for a one-time, non-commercial event. All
Sign s shall be classified as one or more of the following types:
   A)   A-Frame: See “Sidewalk Sign ”.
   B)   Abandoned (Sign): A Sign that is Deteriorated , as defined herein, or
is not adequately maintained, repaired, or removed within the specified time as
ordered by this Resolution.
   C)   Address (Sign): Any street location identifier.
   D)   Animation or Video Display: Changing of a message, background, or
structure of a Sign in a manner or method of display characterized by motion or
pictorial imagery, which may or may not include text, that depicts action or a
special effect to imitate movement; the presentation of pictorials, or graphics
displayed in a progression of frames which give the illusion of motion or
changes of artificial or natural lighting, including, but not limited to the
illusion of moving objects, moving patterns, bands of light, or expanding or
contracting shapes. Sign s utilizing smells or noise shall also qualify as an
Animation or Video Display.
   E)   Awning (Sign): Any Sign that is permanently affixed to the visible
surface(s) of an Awning .
   F)   Banner: A flat piece of cloth, fabric, paper, plastic or any other such
material with or without characters, illustrations, letters, numbers, or
ornamentation, that is hung from or displayed from a Building , Structure , or
portion thereof; which may or may not be intended to move in the wind and which
may or may not be affixed to one or more poles, posts, or other similar type of
support structure.
   G)   Billboard: Any permanently affixed Sign that it is typically used to
direct attention to one or more entities, places, activities, products,
amenities, or services, and/or any entertainment not located, available,
manufactured, or provided on the Lot , Tract , or commonly owned development on
which the Sign is located.
   H)   Blade: Any permanently affixed Sign that projects more than four (4)
inches from any side of a Building or Structure and whose Sign Face is situated
at a perpendicular or oblique angle to the Building or Structure to which it is
affixed. Such Sign Faces may be erected to be read horizontally or vertically.
   I)   Building Mounted: Any Sign which is posted, Attached , or otherwise
applied to a Building or a component integral to a Building , such as a door.
   J)   Bulletin Board: A board or other similar piece of material, twelve (12)
square feet or smaller, mounted to the exterior of a Building , or incorporated
within a Sidewalk or Kiosk Sign, containing a surface upon which Sign s are
temporarily affixed using tacks, pins, nails, tape, or other similar means. Any
Bulletin Board that exceeds twelve (12) square feet shall be considered a
Manual Changeable Copy Sign.
   K)   Canopy: Any Sign that is permanently affixed to the visible surface(s)
of a Canopy .
   L)   Changeable Copy, Manual : Any Sign, or portion thereof, with
characters, illustrations, letters, numbers, or shapes that are changed or
rearranged by Manual means without altering the face or surface of the Sign.
   M)   Changeable Copy, Mechanical : Any Sign, or portion thereof, with
characters, illustrations, letters, numbers, or shapes that can only be changed
or rearranged by Mechanical means; without altering the face or surface of the
Sign.
   N)   Channel Letter: Any Sign consisting of individually constructed
characters, illustrations, letters, numbers, or shapes that are permanently
affixed to a Building or Structure .
   O)   Electronic Message Center (EMC): Any permanently affixed Sign, or
portion thereof, that displays electronic images, graphics, pictures, or video,
with or without textual information, using LEDs, fiber-optics, light bulbs, or
other illumination devices, or combination thereof, within the display area and
where a static message change sequence is accomplished immediately or by means
of fade, re-pixilation, dissolve, or other such modes, devices, processes,
products, applications, or technologies from a proximate or remote location.
Such Sign s include television screens, plasma screens, digital screens, LED
screens, video boards, holographic displays, monitors, and computer-
programmable and microprocessor-controlled electronic displays.
   P)   Feather Banner: A Sign consisting of a Banner with a Height typically
exceeding its width, affixed to the side of a pole or staff driven into the
ground for support or supported by means of an individual stand.
   Q)   Flag: Any bunting, cloth, fabric, or similar type of material
containing one or more distinctive colors, patterns, emblems, ornamentation,
and/or symbols that designed to have one edge affixed parallel to a pole,
typically oriented horizontally, and intended move in the wind but may also be
hung from a banister, cornice, eave, Fascia , rafter, or other similar
architectural feature or projection.
   R)   Flashing: Any Sign, or portion thereof, that changes light intensity,
switches on and off in a pattern, or contains moving parts, or the optical
illusion of motion caused by use of electrical energy or illumination, with a
display that appears for less than fifteen (15) consecutive seconds; a Sign or
any portion thereof where there is a pattern of changing light illumination,
where the Sign illumination alternates suddenly between fully illuminated and
fully non-illuminated or alternates between various levels of illumination for
the purpose of drawing attention; illumination that is intermittently on and
off so as to flash or blink or the intensity varies so as to appear to flash or
blink or where there is a pattern of changing light illumination.
   S)   Freestanding: A permanently affixed Sign that is self-supporting by use
of posts, pillars, columns, or other Structure s, and is not Attached to any
Building .
   T)   Government (Sign): Any Sign erected, owned, and maintained by Genoa
Township, Delaware County, the State of Ohio, Westerville City School District,
Big Walnut Local School District, Olentangy School District, or any legitimate
and recognized civil entity, agency, bureau, commission, department, district,
or sub-entity thereof as well as any assigned business, contractor, or
organization legally acting on behalf of any one of the aforementioned
entities.
   U)   Ground Mounted: Any Freestanding Sign  Attached to a permanently
affixed foundation or base and not Attached to, or dependent on support from,
any Building , column, pole, post, or other similar type of support structure.
   V)   Human: Any Sign that is held or worn by a person, including but not
limited to a human directional, Sign walkers/wavers/twirlers, and “sandwich
persons”. Human Sign does not include text or images that are displayed on a
traditional article of clothing, such as coats, jackets, shirts, pants, or
hats.
   W)   Inflatable: Any Sign in which all or part of the Sign is set in motion
or inflated by any gas. This definition includes both hot and cold-air balloons
tethered, or otherwise anchored, to the ground.
   X)   Integral, Building : Any Sign that is embedded, extruded, inscribed, or
carved into the material of a Building or Structure façade, typically, but not
always, made, in whole or in part, of bronze, brushed stainless steel,
aluminum, or similar material, including, but not necessarily limited to,
plaques, tablets, and corner stones.
   Y)   Integral, Ground: Any Sign that is embedded, extruded, inscribed, or
carved into the material of a paved ground surface, typically, but not always,
made, in whole or in part, of bronze, brushed stainless steel, aluminum, or
similar material, including, but not necessarily limited to, plaques, tablets,
and corner stones.
   Z)   Kiosk: Any permanently affixed Structure , roofed or unroofed, that is
utilized to display Sign s or Bulletin Boards and is placed in areas accessible
primarily to pedestrians, such as along, or at the intersection of, or
Pedestrianway s, or within a plaza, courtyard, square, or other similar
pedestrian gathering area. Such a Building or Structure may take the form of a
booth, cubicle, open-fronted hut, stand, block, cylindrical column, or a panel
that is single or multi-sided.
   AA)   Landscape: A Sign comprised of flowers, shrubs, trees, soil, much,
stone, pavers, or other similar Landscaping materials that are located within a
planter, flower bed, garden, or open lawn area.
   BB)   Light Box: A permanently affixed Sign with an exposed frame,
translucent face, and Internal illumination .
   CC)   Light Pole: Any Banner which is affixed to the side of a light pole or
street light designed or retrofitted for such a display.
   DD)   Marquee (Sign): Any Sign that is permanently affixed to the visible
surface(s) of a Marquee .
   EE)   Miscellaneous (Sign): Any Sign that is not considered a Building
Mounted or Freestanding Sign .
   FF)   Original Art Display: A hand-painted work of visual art that is either
affixed to, or painted directly on, the exterior wall of a Structure with the
permission of the property owner but excluding mechanically produced or
computer-generated prints or images; including, but not limited to digitally
printed vinyl, electrical or Mechanical components, or changing image art
display(s).
   GG)   Pole or Pylon: Any Freestanding Sign that is permanently affixed to
the ground and is supported by one (1) or more structural elements.
   HH)   Post and Panel: Any Sign consisting of panels made of rigid material
that are mounted between two (2) posts, or hung from an arm, supported by one
(1) or more posts, permanently affixed to the ground; and may be removable to
allow convenient changing of Sign copy.
   II)   Projection: Any Sign that is projected onto a Building or Structure ,
or into the air, via digital, electrical, or other such means.
   JJ)   Roof: Any permanently affixed Sign erected and constructed wholly on
and over the roof of a Building ; supported by the roof structure; extending
vertically above the top walk or edge of a flat roof, the eave line of a
Building with a gambrel, gable, or hip roof or the deck-line of a Building with
a mansard roof.
   KK)   Roof Integral: Any permanently affixed Sign erected or constructed as
an integral part of a normal roof structure of any design such that no part of
the Sign extends above the highest portion of the roof and such that no part of
the Sign is separate from the rest of the roof by a space of more than six (6)
inches. A Sign constructed between the eaves and deck line of a mansard roof
shall be considered such a Sign.
   LL)   Sandwich Board: See “Sidewalk Sign ”.
   MM)   Sidewalk: Any Sign that is portable, typically placed on or adjacent
to a sidewalk, walkway, pathway, bikeway, or trail; and is primarily intended
to be viewed by pedestrians, including A-frame and sandwich board style signs.
Such Sign s may incorporate chalkboards, whiteboards, magnetic boards, and/or
Manual Changeable Copy.
   NN)   Suspended: Any Sign, designed to be viewed primarily by pedestrians,
which hangs, or is suspended beneath, an Awning , Canopy , Porch , patio, or
walkway cover, or is hung from a support extending from a Building or other
similar type of feature.
   OO)   Temporary: Any Sign, not otherwise defined within this Resolution,
which is not permanently affixed to the ground, a wall, a Building , or a
Structure and is typically, but not necessarily, made, in whole or in part, of
paper, cloth, canvas, plastic sheet, plywood, wallboard, cardboard, and/or
other similar materials; that a reasonable person could determine is intended
to be displayed for a limited period of time such as, but not necessarily
limited to, Sign s placed on: properties for sale, properties for rent,
properties which are opening for business, properties under construction ,
renovation, or repair; lawn Sign s, Banners not affixed to light poles, and
posters but excluding Windblown devices. Such Sign s shall be further
categorized into one of the following classifications:
      1)   Small Temporary Sign: A Temporary Sign that is eight (8) square feet
or smaller in Sign Area and less than four (4) feet in Height .
      2)   Large Temporary Sign: A Temporary Sign that exceeds eight (8) square
feet in size and/or four (4) feet in Height .
   PP)   Trailer: Any Sign which is attached to, supported by, or part of a
structure, where the structure’s primary purpose is the display of such Sign,
and where the structure is designed to move on trailer wheels, skids, or other
similar devices, or is transported, pushed, or pulled by a motor vehicle,
whether or not such trailer is parked or being towed.
   QQ)   Vehicle: Any Sign attached to or displayed on a licensed and operable
Vehicle and not otherwise considered a Trailer Sign .
   RR)   Wall: Any Sign that is permanently affixed or Attached directly and
generally parallel to, or painted on or otherwise inscribed on, a Fence,
Accessory Wall , retaining wall , or an exterior Building wall which faces a
public or private Right-of-Way , parking lot, or service drive and is confined
within the limits thereof of any Building and which projects from that surface
less than twelve (12) inches at all points.
   SS)   Windblown Device: Any Sign or device, not otherwise specifically
defined in this Resolution, which is set in motion by wind. Such devices shall
include: streamers, ribbons, Pennant s, and long, narrow strips of fabric,
plastic, or other pliable material designed to move in the wind.
   TT)   Window: Any Sign s, posters, symbols, and other types of
identification, directly attached to the window of a Building , including faux
windows and doors, or erected on the inside of a Building and visible from any
public Right-of-Way or adjacent property.
Sign Area (Sign Face) – The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of writing, representation, emblem, or any figure
of similar character together with any frame or other material or color forming
an integral part of the display or used to differentiate such Sign from the
background against which it is placed, excluding the necessary supports or
uprights on which such Sign is placed. The area of a Sign having more than one
display surface shall be computed as the total of the exposed exterior display
surface area.
Sign Height – (see Height ).
Sign Structure – The supporting unit of a Sign Face , including but not limited
to frames, braces, and poles. If the Sign Structure has a communicative element
to it, the Sign Structure shall be included in the Sign Area .
Sign Width - The maximum horizontal or semi-horizontal distance between the two
(2) points of a Sign Structure .
Single-Family Dwelling – A Dwelling which accommodates one Family .
Small Wind Project – Any wind project less than 5MW, which includes the wind
turbine generator and Anemometer .
Solar-Energy – Radiant energy (direct, diffused, or reflected) received from
the sun that can be collected and converted into thermal or electric energy.
Solar-Energy System – A system and associated facilities, including Battery
Energy Storage Systems, that collect Solar Energy, which may include, but is
not limited to, an Integrated Solar Energy System, Rooftop Solar Energy System,
or Ground Mounted Solar Energy System.
   A)   Ground Mounted Solar Energy Systems: A Solar Energy System that mounts
a solar panel or panels and facilities on or above the ground.
   B)   Integrated Solar Energy Systems: A Solar Energy System that is
incorporated into or replaces standard building materials and does not have
mounting equipment. For example, these systems may include materials that
replace traditional roofing, shingles, siding materials, awnings, canopies,
skylights, or windows.
   C)   Rooftop Solar Energy Systems: A Solar Energy System that is mounted to
a Structure or Building ’s roof on racks.
Solar Facility – A Solar Energy System and associated facilities with a single
interconnection to the electrical grid.
   A)   Solar Energy Facility, Large: Any such facility designed and capable of
operation at an aggregate capacity of fifty (50) or more megawatts.
   B)   Solar Energy Facility, Small: Any such facility designed and capable of
operation at an aggregate capacity of less than fifty (50) megawatts.
Specified Anatomical Areas –
   A)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, and female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola;
   B)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
Specified Sexual Activities –
   A)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
   B)   Acts, real or simulated, of human masturbation, sexual intercourse,
sodomy, cunnilingus, or fellatio; or
   C)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breasts.
Speech, Commercial – As it relates to Sign s, any speech proposing or promoting
a commercial transaction(s), intelligent market choice(s), directing attention
to a business, commodity, or service , and not relating to topics, ideas,
opinions, or beliefs concerning politics, religion, and/or philosophy. Such
speech may only advertise products or services that are legal in the place
where it is offered and shall not be false or misleading.
Speech, Non-Commercial – As it relates to Sign s, any speech not proposing a
commercial transaction or promoting “intelligent” market choices but, instead,
related to topics, ideas, opinions, or beliefs concerning politics, religion,
and/or philosophy.
Stable, Commercial – A facility that is primarily rented by customers for the
purpose of keeping horses and other such domestic animals or livestock,
excluding dangerous wild animals as defined and regulated by ORC 935.01(C), as
may be amended.
Stadium – A fully or partially outdoor facility specifically designed and built
to enable an audience to observe athletic events, competitions, performances,
productions, and/or motion pictures occurring in a space surrounded on most or
all sides by seating for spectators. This definition shall not include any
activity meeting the definition of a Sexually Oriented Business .
Stealth Design – Camouflaging methods applied to Telecommunication Towers,
antennas, and other such facilities, which render them more visually appealing
or blend the proposed facility into an existing Structure or visual backdrop in
such a manner as to render it minimally visible to the casual observer. Such
methods include, but are not limited to, architecturally screened roof-mounted
Antenna, Building -mounted Antenna designed to match the existing Structure ,
and facilities to resemble clock towers, bell steeples, trees, shrubs, flag
poles, and light poles.
Storage Terminal – Any outdoor establishment primarily utilized for the storage
of freight, goods, and materials, often in storage containers, excluding
animals, Junk , refuse, waste, and the like. Such an establishment may also
contain incidental Structure s necessary for operations and/or maintenance.
Storage Yard –    Any land, or portion thereof, that is primarily utilized by a
non-residential entity, or a customer renting said area, in whole or in part,
for Outdoor Storage of items other than Junk that does not otherwise qualify as
any other Use defined herein.
Story –    The part of a Building , except a mezzanine, included between the
surface of one floor and the surface of the next floor above, or if there is no
floor above, then the ceiling next above. The floor of a story may have split
levels provided that there not be more than four (4) feet difference in
elevation between the different levels of the floor. A Basement (as defined
herein) shall not be counted as a story.
Street –    See ‘Thoroughfare ’.
Structure – Anything constructed or permanently erected in a fixed location on
the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground,
including but not limited to, Principal and Accessory Buildings , entry columns
and walls, Entry Feature s, Fences, balconies, decks, sheds, Porch es, Swimming
Pool s, antennae, Sign s, built-in barbeques, outdoor fireplaces, permanently
sited grills, solar panels, verandas, wind turbines, permanent playground
equipment, raised patios/boardwalks/promenades in excess of one (1) foot in
Height , Accessory Walls, Retaining Wall s, and seating walls.
Studio –    A space or facility where art, music, photography, productions,
video, and the like are created but which does not otherwise qualify as a
Sexually Oriented Business (Nude Model Studio ).
   A)   Studio, Broadcasting and/or Recording: Any such establishment primarily
engaged in the recording and/or broadcast transmittal of audio and/or visual
programs or products that are primarily produced indoors.
   B)   Studio, Business Service: A quasi-Retail Studio establishment utilized
by an individual(s) primarily for the purpose of creating art and/or crafts,
including photography, which may utilize professional models, for non-
recreational, non-entertainment purposes but excluding broadcasting and
recording activities.
   C)   Studio, Development: Any such establishment primarily engaged in the
creation of computer programs, digital applications, software, video games, and
the like, but generally does not engage in the broadcasting or on-site
retailing of such products.
   D)   Studio, Personal-Service: A quasi-Retail Studio establishment utilized
by an individual(s) primarily for the purpose of creating their own art and/or
craft, including photography, which does not utilize professional models, for
non-recreational, non-entertainment purposes, but excluding broadcasting and
recording activities.
   E)   Studio, Production: Any such establishment primarily engaged in the
recording and/or transmitting of audio and/or visual programs or products, some
or all of which are produced outdoors.
Substance Abuse Treatment Clinic – Any establishment licensed by: the State of
Ohio, Delaware County Public Health District, or any other legitimate
governmental entity having such authority; to use drugs such as, but not
necessarily limited to, methadone, in the treatment, maintenance, or
detoxification of persons suffering from substance abuse. Such facilities that
admit, or lodge individuals overnight or longer shall be considered a Hospital
. This definition shall not include Residential Care Facilities .
Swimming Pool – Any artificially constructed receptacle Structure or natural
body of water which contains a depth of water of at least one and one-half (1
½) feet at any point used or intended to be used for swimming or bathing and
maintained by an owner or manager, including any accessory recreational
Structure s. This excludes hot tubs and swim spas with hard lockable covers
that do not exceed ten (10) feet in length and/or an average depth of four (4)
feet.
   A)   Swimming Pool, Commercial: Swimming Pools which are incidental to a
Principal Use of a Non-Residential nature (i.e., not essential or germane to
the core business), and which may or may not be open to patrons of said Use ,
such as Hotel/Motel swimming pools. This definition shall not include any Non-
Residential Uses which contain one or more Swimming Pools as a primary or core
component of the operation.
   B)   Swimming Pool, Residential: Swimming Pools installed on private
residential Lots or Tract s for personal, non-business use by the residential
inhabitants of said Lot or Tract , including neighborhood swimming pools which
primarily services residents of a specific neighborhood, Mobile Home Park ,
Multi-Family Building Complex , Residential Care Facility , Residential
Community Center , residential Planned Development , or any similar type of
residential Dwelling complex.
Tap Room – An establishment attached to any type of Brewery , Distillery , or
Winery and which is open to the public for the sale of alcoholic beverages
produced by such facility for consumption on or off-site.
Telecommunications Tower – See ORC 519.211(B)(1), as may be amended.
Temporary Structure – A transient structure that is not permanently affixed to
the ground by means of foundation , footings, or the like and is erected for a
designated time frame and then subsequently removed, such as during periods of
construction of an associated Principal or Accessory Structure , or for
Temporary Use s or Special Events.
Temporary Use – A transient, non-permanent Use permitted to exist for a
designated time, such as during periods of construction of an associated
Principal or Accessory Use , or for special events including concerts, fairs,
festivals, and performances.
Thoroughfare (i.e., Road, Street) – A recognized and designated way that
provides the means of conveying vehicles through or to property, as may be
further defined, delineated, or amended by the current Thoroughfare Plan ,
including the following types:
   A)   Arterial Street : A general term denoting a Thoroughfare primarily
designed and utilized for through traffic, carrying heavy loads and large
volumes of traffic, usually on a continuous route.
   B)   Collector Street: A Thoroughfare , whether within a residential,
industrial, commercial, or other type of development, which primarily carries
traffic from Local Street s to Arterial Street s, including the principal
entrance and circulation routes within residential subdivisions.
   C)   Cul-de-Sac: A Local Street of relatively short length with one end open
to traffic and the other end permanently terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
   D)   Dead End Street: A Street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic
and may or may not be extended or continued in the future.
   E)   Freeway: An express highway with limited or controlled access through
the means of entrance and exit ramps, regardless of whether they are tolled;
(e.g., Interstate 71).
   F)   Local Street: A Street providing access to residential, commercial, or
other abutting property that is not described or listed elsewhere in the
definition of a Thoroughfare .
   G)   Marginal Access Street: A Local or Collector Street , parallel to and
adjacent to an Arterial Street , Collector Street , or Freeway , providing
access to abutting properties and protection from said Streets .
   H)   Private Street: Any Street which is not owned or maintained by any
public or governmental agency but rather by an individual, group of
individuals, neighborhood, organization, corporation, or association.
   I)   Internal Street: A roadway which is typically not owned or maintained
by any public or governmental agency, functions independently of an Off-Street
Parking Lot , and which may or may not be named, that provides traffic
circulation around and/or through a site or development.
Thoroughfare Plan – The Official Thoroughfare Plan adopted by Delaware County,
as may be amended, establishing the location and official Right-of-Way widths
of principal highways, Streets , and road s within Delaware County.
Township Trustees – The statutory Board of Trustees of Genoa Township, Delaware
County, Ohio established and elected in accordance with the ORC .
Tract –    Any Lot or group of Lots which are Contiguous or adjacent to one
another that are intended and proposed to be constructed as a singular Planned
Development , regardless of whether construction of said development occurs in
phases. All concepts and definitions pertaining to Lots , such as Frontage ,
Lot Lines , Setback , and Yard , shall apply to Tract s.
Transportation Services and Facilities – An establishment where one or more
vehicles are stored and dispatched from for the purpose of operating a business
that transfers individuals from one location to another. Said vehicle(s) may
include, but are not necessarily limited to, bicycles, cars, vans, trucks,
taxicabs, limousines, trams, buses, and the like. Such establishments typically
contain Off-Street parking lots, garages, passenger terminals, dispatch,
Offices, and/or areas used for repair.
Tree Preservation Area (or Zone) – Unless otherwise defined in a valid Legal
Approval , a designated area in that is intended to protect existing, trees
from degradation; typically, by prohibiting injurious disturbance or outright
removal unless said tree(s) has otherwise been determined by a certified
arborist to be dead, terminally diseased, and/or a significant or immediate
threat to life and/or property.
Truck Terminal – A facility used primarily for the storage, washing, and/or
fueling of Commercial Motor Vehicle s, semi-trucks, and trailers, and/or any
such facility which transfers freight from one such vehicle or trailer to
another, but which does not typically store freight on premises for an extended
period of time. Such facilities may, but are not required to, contain, feature,
or offer scales for weighing vehicles, overnight parking, Mechanical services,
restrooms, bathing facilities, lounges for drivers, Retail , Restaurant s, and
other such amenities that cater to Commercial Motor Vehicle s and truck drivers
(local, regional, and over-the-road /long-haul).
Ultra-Light Vehicles – For the purposes of this Resolution, an unpowered or
powered ultra-light vehicle is one that is used or intended to be used for
manned operation in the air by occupant(s) for sport or recreation. Ultra-light
aircraft do not have any United States or foreign airworthiness certificate.
They weigh less than two hundred fifty-four (254) pounds empty weight and have
a fuel capacity not exceeding five (5) U.S. gallons. If powered, such vehicles
are capable of not more than fifty-five (55) knots calibrated airspeed at full
power in level flight.
Use –    The specific purpose for which land, a Structure , or a Building is
designed, arranged, intended, occupied, or maintained.
   A)   Agricultural Type Use: Use s which primarily relate to the raising of
crops and/or domesticated livestock or Agriculture as defined with ORC 519.01,
as may be amended, but which may also include incidental accessories,
utilities, features, and amenities supporting said Use and which may also be
exempt from zoning under the ORC . Any Building , Structure , Sign , or land
not directly or primarily engaged in agriculture or otherwise exempt from
zoning by the ORC shall not be included in this definition.
   B)   Non-Residential Type Use: Use s which are primarily commercial and/or
industrial in nature, including mixing such Uses with Dwelling s, and which may
also include incidental accessories, utilities, features, and amenities
supporting said Use.
   C)   Residential Type Use: Use s that primarily provide Dwelling s on
premises for humans, be they owners or renters, to reside within and which may
also include incidental accessories, utilities, features, and amenities
supporting said Use.
Utilities, Private – Any infrastructure, including Structure s, which produce,
distribute, provide, and/or support utility services in a non-Retail setting
such as, but not necessarily limited to, sewer, water, power, natural gas,
telecommunications and/or waste management, but which do not fall under the
jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) and are not
otherwise defined herein this Resolution.
Utilities, Public – Any and all activities recognized by ORC 5727, as may be
amended, and regulated by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO).
Variance – A Variance is a modification of the strict terms of this Resolution
where such modifications will not be contrary to the public interest and,
where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the
action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this Resolution would result
in unnecessary hardship. This term shall not encompass the ability to change
zoning schemes or correct errors of judgment in zoning laws.
   A)   Area Variance: A Variance that provides relief from the area
requirements, lot restrictions, and/or structural restrictions contained within
this Zoning Resolution, such as Setback s, Lot Area , Height , Structure size,
and the like, but which does not otherwise qualify as a Use Variance .
   B)   Use Variance: A Variance that permits property to be used in a way not
expressly or implicitly allowed by this Zoning Resolution.
Vending – Offering items for sale or rent by means of a standalone appliance,
machine, or stall. Such an operation does not require a Building or a human
attendant in order to function and typically uses slots, terminals, or other
similar types of devices to accept payment
   A)   Vending, Mechanical : Any such operation that issues the item being
purchased or rented by Mechanical means to the consumer.
   B)   Vending, Self-Service: Any such operation that relies on Manual efforts
of the consumer to obtain the item being purchased or rented.
Veterinary Clinic – A facility where sick and/or injured animals are examined
and/or potentially admitted for treatment(s) such as surgery by a licensed
veterinarian. Animals may or may not be kept indoors overnight or longer for
the purpose of observation and/or convalescence. Such a facility may also offer
grooming and training services. The boarding of animals that do not require
medical care/observation shall also be considered a Kennel .
Vicinity Map – A drawing which sets forth by dimensions or other means the
relationship of a property or Use to other nearby developments of landmarks and
community facilities and services within Genoa Township to better locate and
orient the area in question.
Warehouse – A fully or partially enclosed facility primarily utilized for the
wholesaling and/or storage of freight, goods, and materials, excluding animals,
Junk , refuse, waste, and the like.
   A)   Warehouse, Bulk Storage: A Warehouse establishment that often stores
items in relatively large quantities and typically for a period longer than one
(1) month, including storage of such items on pallets, in shipping containers,
and/or in original containers without packaging.
   B)   Warehouse, Distribution Center: A non-Retail Warehouse establishment
primarily engaged in the receipt, storage, and distribution of goods, products,
cargo, and/or materials, including trans-shipment by rail, motor vehicle, or
other means of transportation, and shall also include operations commonly known
as wholesale establishments and fulfillment centers but shall not include other
types of Warehouse s defined herein. Goods are typically stored on-site for no
longer than one (1) month.
   C)   Warehouse, General: A Warehouse establishment not meeting any other
Warehouse definition set forth within this Resolution.
   D)   Warehouse, Mini and/or Self-Storage: A Warehouse facility consisting of
individual self-service storage space(s) or units (interior or exterior), which
may or may not be located within a common Structure , that are available for
rent, short or long term, for the purpose of storing business, household, or
personal goods, materials, or property, including all types of vehicles but
excluding animals, so long as they are completely stored within an enclosed
space (i.e., indoors).
   E)   Warehouse, Records: A secure, often climate-controlled, Warehouse
facility utilized for the archiving and/or storage, short or long term, of
collections, documents, masters, records, sensitive data (analog or digital),
valuables, and the like. Such an operation may also include operations
necessary for the capturing, sorting, processing, maintenance, recording,
repair, and/or reproduction of such items.
   F)   Warehouse, Retail : A Warehouse facility utilized for the storage of
retail goods that are primarily pre-ordered off-site and then subsequently
picked up on-site by consumers in an industrial setting.
Waste Transfer Facility – An establishment which receives and temporarily
stores waste, including refuse, at a location other than the site where it is
generated, which may or may not involve the treatment of the waste, and/or
which facilitates the transfer of the waste to another facility for further
processing, disposal, or storage such as, but not exclusively limited to, a
Composting Facility , Junkyard , Recycling Collection Facility .
Water Impoundment – Ponds, lakes, and other such bodies of water.
Water System, Central – A water supply system approved by the appropriate
county, state, and/or federal agencies that provides a water supply to a single
development, a community, or a region.
Water System, On-Site – A well or other similar installation on an individual
lot which provides a water supply to any Structure s or Use s upon the Lot ,
subject to the approval of health and sanitation officials having jurisdiction.
Wind Farm – A Structure or establishment primarily utilized to capture wind via
a Wind Turbine for the purposes of generating power, as may be further defined
in the ORC , including any associated Battery Energy Storage System .
   A)   Wind Farm, Large: In accordance with ORC 519.213(A)(1), as may be
amended, wind turbines and associated facilities that are subject to the
jurisdiction of the power siting board under ORC 4906.20 and 4906.201, as may
be amended. Otherwise, any such facility producing five (5) or more megawatts,
and which shall include the wind turbine generator Anemometer and other
appurtenant equipment, facilities, or Structure s.
   B)   Wind Farm, Small: Per ORC 519.213(A)(1), as may be amended, wind
turbines and associated facilities that are not subject to the jurisdiction of
the power siting board under ORC 4906.20 and 4906.201, as may be amended.
Otherwise, any such facility producing less than five (5) megawatts, and which
shall include the wind turbine generator and Anemometer .
Wind Power Turbine Owner – The person or persons who owns the Wind Turbine
structure.
Wind Power Turbine Tower – The support structure to which the turbine and rotor
are attached.
Wind Power Turbine Tower Height – (See Height, Non-Residential ).
Winery –    A facility that holds a license to manufacture, store, and
distribute wine and other similar types of alcoholic beverages, excluding
liquor, liqueur, spirits, Malt or Brewed Beverages , and/or the like, as
regulated by the State of Ohio.
   A)   Winepub. Macro: A Macrowinery which also functions as a Restaurant and
may, if permitted by the State of Ohio, sell wine and other similar types of
alcoholic beverages.
   B)   Winepub. Micro: A Microwinery which also functions as a Restaurant and
may, if permitted by the State of Ohio, sell wine and other similar types of
alcoholic beverages.
   C)   Farm Winery : A facility, located on a Farm, engaging in the
Agricultural Production of wine and other similar types of alcoholic beverages,
as regulated by the State of Ohio.
   D)   Macrowinery: A Winery producing greater than ten thousand (10,000)
cases of wine per calendar year.
   E)   Microwinery: A Winery producing ten thousand (10,000) or fewer cases of
wine per calendar year.
Yard –    An open or unoccupied space other than a court on the same Lot with a
Principal Building and unobstructed by Building s or Structure s from ground to
sky except by trees or shrubbery or as otherwise provided herein. The minimum
depth of a yard shall be determined by the Setback lines as defined in this
Resolution. No part of a yard provided for any Building or Structure shall be
included as a part of any yard required for any other Building or Structure
unless specifically permitted herein. Yards shall be further defined as:
   A)   Front Yard: An open space extending the full width of the lot between a
Building or Structure and the Front Lot Line of a Street , unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as hereinafter specified. Minimum
depth shall be measured from the Front Lot Line , existing Right-of-Way line,
or proposed Right-of-Way line established on the Official Thoroughfare Plan or
by any other method specified elsewhere in this Resolution, as appropriate.
   B)   Side Yard: An open space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between a Building or Structure and the nearest Side Lot Line , unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as herein specified.
   C)   Rear Yard: An open space extending the full width of the lot between a
Building or Structure and the Rear Lot Line , unoccupied and unobstructed from
the ground upward except as herein specified.
Zoning Commission – The statutory Zoning Commission of Genoa Township, Delaware
County, Ohio established in accordance with ORC 519.
Zoning District – A set of uniform regulations applicable to one or more areas
of unincorporated land as depicted on the Zoning Map and which are
distinguishable from one another by Use s and characteristics that are similar
in nature, form, or function.
Zoning District, Non-Residential – Any one of the following Zoning Districts ,
as identified on the Zoning Map and further regulated herein: Community
Business (CB), Planned Commercial District (PCD), Light Industrial (LI),
Planned Industrial District (PID), and Planned Community Facilities District
(PCF).
Zoning District, Planned – A type of Zoning District established to regulate
Planned Development s.
Zoning District, Planned Residential – Any one of the following Planned Zoning
Districts as identified on the Zoning Map , and further regulated herein;
Planned Residential District (PRD).
Zoning District, Residential – Any one of the following Straight Zoning
Districts as identified on the Zoning Map and further regulated herein: Rural
Residential (RR) and Suburban Residential (SR).
Zoning District, Straight – A type of Zoning District established to regulate
non-Planned Development s.
Zoning Inspector – The statutory individual appointed by the Township Trustees
who is charged with administering the Genoa Township Zoning Resolution or that
appointee’s authorized representative.
Zoning Map – The Zoning Map of Genoa Township or any portion thereof, with all
amendments thereto subsequently adopted.
Zoning Map Amendment – The legal act of changing the Zoning District
classification of one or more Lots . Said action shall be considered a
legislative act and reflected on the Zoning Map .
Zoning Permit – A document issued by the Zoning Inspector certifying proposed
construction is compliant with the Zoning Resolution and/or any applicable
Legal Approvals; also known as a zoning certificate.
ARTICLE 5: Establishment of Districts, Map, and Uses
Section 501: Establishment of Districts
501.01   In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this Resolution,
Genoa Township is hereby divided into the following Zoning Districts :
      Rural Residential District   (RR)
      Suburban Residential District   (SR)
      Planned Residential District   (PRD) formerly known as PD-1
      Community Business   (CB)
      Planned Commercial District   (PCD) formerly known as PD-2
      Planned Industrial District   (PID) formerly known as PD-3
      Planned Community Facilities District   (PCF)
      Light Industrial District   (LI)
501.02   In addition to the standard Zoning Districts listed above, in order to
carry out the intents and purposes of this Resolution, Genoa Township has
subsequently established the following overlay Zoning District (s):
      Hoover Watershed Overlay District   (HOD)
501.03   Regulations, requirements, and standards applicable to the Zoning
Districts established herein shall be set forth within articles of this Zoning
Resolution.
Section 502: Official Zoning District Map
502.01   The Zoning Districts and their boundaries are shown on the Official
Zoning District Map of Genoa Township. The map, together with all explanatory
data and changes, is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Resolution.
A resolution number and date corresponding to each change may be included in an
appendix to this resolution that may be updated administratively by the Genoa
Township Development & Zoning Office. The official map is to be maintained and
kept up-to-date by the Genoa Township Development & Zoning Office. Assistance
may be provided by the Delaware County Regional Planning Commission . The
original shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of lands,
Building s, and other Structure s within the Township. The official map shall
be posted on the Township website, made available to the public in the Genoa
Township Development & Zoning Office during regular business hours, and
otherwise maintained in accordance with relevant public records laws.
Section 503: Interpretation of District Boundaries
503.01   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
Districts as shown on the Official Zoning District Map, the rules established
within this Section shall apply.
503.02   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines or
Right-of-Way lines of streets, highways, and/or alleys shall be construed to
follow such center lines or their extensions.
503.03   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted Lot Lines
shall be construed as following such lines.
503.04   Boundaries indicated as approximately following municipal limits shall
be construed as following municipal lines.
503.05   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be located midway between the main tracks.
503.06   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such center lines.
503.07   Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or extensions of, features or
lines indicated above shall be so construed. Distances not specifically
indicated on the Official Zoning District Map shall be determined by the scale
of the map.
503.08   Questions concerning the exact location of District boundary lines
shall be determined by the Zoning Inspector, subject to the owner’s right of
appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals as provided in Section
306.
503.09   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at odds
with those shown on the Official Zoning District Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by preceding subsections above, the Zoning Inspector shall
interpret the District boundaries subject to appeal to the Board of Zoning
Appeals as provided in Section
306.
503.10   Lots shall only be subject to one Zoning District . Should the Zoning
Map depict that a Lot is covered by two (2) or more Zoning Districts , the
Zoning Inspector shall determine which Zoning District prevails, subject to the
provisions below. Said determination is subject to appeal to the Board of
Zoning Appeals as provided in Section
306.
   A)   The Zoning District comprising the majority of the subject Lot Area
shall control.
   B)   Should the amount of area a Zoning District comprise on a Lot be
inconclusive, indeterminant, or otherwise unknown, the prevailing Zoning
District shall be the Zoning District present on the Lot with the most
restrictive (i.e., largest) minimum Lot Area requirement.
   C)   The foregoing shall not apply to any Lot that partially contains a
Planned Zoning District that was lawfully implemented and clearly incorporates
said Lot . In such instances, the Planned Zoning District shall prevail, and
the Lot shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Final
Development Plan unless said plan expressly states otherwise.
Section 504: Establishment of Use s
504.01   To carry out the purposes and provisions of this Resolution, the
manner in which a property and/or Structure may be utilized shall be organized
and classified into distinct Use categories.
504.02   The definition of a Use , whether Principal or Accessory , shall be as
identified in Article
4 of this Resolution unless otherwise specified within this Resolution.
504.03   Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Use s shall be incorporated into this
Article and shall apply to every Zoning District within Genoa Township,
including overlays, unless otherwise specified within this Resolution.
504.04   Section
505: Table of Authorized Accessory Use s shall be incorporated into this
Article and shall apply to every Zoning District within Genoa Township,
including overlays, unless otherwise specified within this Resolution.
504.05   The classification of Use s into Use types (e.g., Agricultural Type
Uses , Residential Type Uses , Non-Residential Type Uses ) shall be as
established and identified within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses , and Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses .
504.06   Principal and/or Accessory Uses shall be subject to Articles
16 and
17, as well as any additional provisions within this Resolution.
504.07   Principal and/or Accessory Uses shall be subject to any terms,
conditions, regulations, restrictions, and prohibitions set forth in any valid
and applicable Legal Approval .
504.08   The interpretation and classification of a Use , Principal or
Accessory , shall be conducted by the Zoning Inspector pursuant to the
definitions found within Article
4 and the spirit and intent of this Resolution. Determinations are subject to
appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals , as provided for in Section
306.
504.09   Any Structure , Lot , or Tract shall be permitted to contain more than
one (1) authorized Principal , Conditional , and/or Accessory Use pursuant to
the terms of this Resolution unless otherwise expressly restricted or specified
within this Resolution or by an applicable Legal Approval .
504.10   Genoa Township reserves the right to determine that any business,
enterprise, establishment, facility, operation, etc., qualifies as more than
one (1) Principal Use , Conditional Use , and/or Accessory Use and therefore is
subject to any provisions applicable to such Use (s).
504.11   No Accessory Use shall be permitted on a Lot or Tract unless an
associated and related Principal Use is located on the same Lot or Tract .
504.12   Unless otherwise specified within this Resolution, any Use permitted
within a given Zoning District shall also be permitted as an Accessory Use in
said Zoning District , subject to any and all applicable regulations herein.
   A)   The foregoing shall not apply to Uses permitted via Conditional Use ,
Use Variance s approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals , or Uses wholly or
partially exempt by the ORC and/or other laws from zoning control. Said Use (s)
shall only be permitted as a lawful Accessory Use when expressly authorized by
this Resolution.
504.13   All Use s, Principal and/or Accessory , not specifically authorized as
a permitted or conditionally permitted Use by the express terms of this Section
of the Zoning Resolution are hereby prohibited. This prohibition shall not be
interpreted to include any improvements, activities, or other such items
identified within Article
1, Section
117.
504.14   Any Use , Principal and/or Accessory , not abiding by the provisions
and/or procedural requirements of this Resolution may be considered a zoning
violation and subject to enforcement pursuant to Section
116.
Section 505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses
Legal Approvals may or may not be required; additional restrictions may apply
R = Permitted by Right but still subject to applicable standards within the
Zoning Resolution.
C = Permitted by Conditional Use (see Article
3,
17,
22,
23, and/or
24)
S = Permitted by Right with specific standards (see Articles
17,
22,
23,
24, and/or the regulations for the subject Zoning District )
N = Not Permitted (i.e., Prohibited)
* = Use may be wholly or partially exempted from township zoning control by
state and/or federal law. Applicable provisions herein this Resolution
otherwise still apply.
          ZONING DISTRICT
PRINCIPAL RR – Rural SR – Suburban PRD – Planned Residential District PRD – Planned Residential District HOD – Hoover Watershed Overlay CB – Community PCD – Planned Commercial LI – Light PID – Planned Industrial PCF – Planned Community
USE       Residential  Residential     w/o                                  with                                 (supersedes where applicable)    Business         District                   Industrial   District                   Facilities
                                       Conservation                         Conservation
                                                                      ZONING DISTRICT
PRINCIPAL USE                                                         RR – Rural SR – Suburban PRD – Planned Residential District PRD – Planned Residential District HOD – Hoover Watershed Overlay CB – Community PCD – Planned Commercial LI – Light PID – Planned Industrial PCF – Planned Community
                                                                      Residential  Residential     w/o                                  with                                 (supersedes where applicable)    Business         District                   Industrial   District                   Facilities
                                                                                                   Conservation                         Conservation
Agricultural Type Uses
Agriculture – see Article
1, Section
102.03 and Article                                                    R*           N*                                                                                                                         N*               N*                         N*           N*                         N*
23, Section
2302
Agritourism – see Article
1, Section                                                                                                                                                                   See the underlying Zoning
102.04 and Article                                                    N*           N*              R (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )*                            District                         N*                                          N*           N*                         N* R*
23, Section
2303
Farm Market – see Article
1, Section
102.05 and Article                                                    N*           N*                                                                                                                         R*                                          R*           R*                         R* R*
23, Section
2304
Residential Type Uses
Community Center – Residential                                      C            C               S                                    S                                                                     N                N                          N            N                          S
Dwelling (s), Live/Work                                               N            N               S                                    S                                    See the underlying Zoning        C                S                          N            N                          N
Dwellings, Row                                                        N            N               S                                    S                                    District                         N                N                          N            N                          N
Dwelling (s), Single-Family                                           R            R               R                                    R                                                                     N                N                          N            N                          N
Home, Family Care                                                     N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          R
Home for Adjustment                                                   N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          R
Home, Foster                                                          N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          R
Home, Group Care                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          R
Home, Nursing                                                         N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          R
Home, Respite                                                         N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          R
Housing, Community-based, Workforce, or Transitional                  N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          R
Housing, Senior and Disabled                                          N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          R
                                                                      See Dwelling , Single-Family per Article
Manufactured Home (permanently sited)                                 1, Section
                                                                      102.14
Mobile Home                                                           C            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          N
Mobile Home Park                                                      C            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          N
Multi-Family Building – Multiplex (small) - Duplex                  N            N               N                                    S                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          N            N                          N
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Multi-Family Building – Multiplex (small) - Triplex                 N            N               N                                    S                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          N
Multi-Family Building – Multiplex (small) - Fourplex                N            N               N                                    S                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          N
Multi-Family Building – Multiplex (medium)                          N            N               N                                    S                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          N
Multi-Family Building – Multiplex (large)                           N            N               N                                    S                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          N
Multi-Family Building - Complex                                       N            N               N                                    S                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          S
Residential Care Facilities (5 or fewer individuals) – as regulated                                                                                                        See the underlying Zoning
by Section                                                            R            R               R                                    R                                    District                         N                N                          N            N                          R
1619
Residential Care Facilities (6 or more individuals)                   N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          S
Non-Residential Type Uses
                                                                      Not permitted in any Zoning District or within any portion of Genoa Township pursuant to Township Trustees Resolution 24-0620002 adopted in accordance with ORC 3780 and 3796.29 on June 20, 2024, as may be amended – see Article
Adult Use Cannabis Operations                                         1, Section
                                                                      102.13
Amphitheater                                                          N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          N            N                          S
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Amusement Arcade                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                R                R                          R            R                          N
Amusement Park                                                        N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          S
Amusement Resort                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          S
Animal Park                                                           N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          N            N                          S
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Animal Shelter                                                        N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          S
Arena                                                                 N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          S
Auction House                                                         N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Auditorium                                                            N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          S
Automobile Detail                                                     N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Automobile Fueling/Charging Station                                   N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            S                          N
Automobile Repair                                                     N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          N
Automobile Salvage                                                    N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Automobile Wash                                                       N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          N
Aviation Facility                                                     N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   N*                               N*               N*                         N*           S*                         N*
Battery Energy Storage System (Off-Site and On-Site)                  See Public Utilities or Private Utilities
Bed and Breakfast                                                     N            N               N                                    S (as set forth in a Final           See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          N            N                          N
                                                                                                                                        Development Plan )                   District
Billboard                                                             See Article
                                                                      18, Sign s
Biodiesel Production – see Article
1, Section                                                            N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                                                    N*               N*                         N*           S*                         N*
102.11
Biologically Derived Methane Gas Production – see Article
1, Section                                                            N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                                                    N*               N*                         N*           S*                         N*
102.11
Biomass Energy Production – see Article                                                                                                                                    See the underlying Zoning
1, Section                                                            N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   District                         N*               N*                         N*           S*                         N*
102.11
Boarding House                                                        N            C               N                                    S (as set forth in a Final                                            N                N                          N            N                          S
                                                                                                                                        Development Plan )
Brewery – Brewpub, Macro                                            N            N               N                                    N                                                                     N                R                          N            R                          N
Brewery – Brewpub, Micro                                            N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          N
Brewery – Farm Brewery                                              N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                                                    R*               N*                         R*           N*                         N*
Brewery – Macrobrewery (with or without Tap Room )                  N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            R                          N
Brewery – Microbrewery (with Tap Room )                             N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Brewery – Microbrewery (without Tap Room )                          N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          R            R                          N
Building Materials Sales and Storage                                  N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                C                S                          C            S                          N
Bulk Fuel Storage                                                     N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Campground                                                            C            N               N                                    N                                                                     N                N                          N            N                          S
Cashing and/or Lending Business                                       N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        C                S                          C            S                          N
Cemetery                                                              C            C               N                                    N                                    District                         N                N                          N            N                          S
Club                                                                  N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Commercial and/or Private Recreation Facility                         N            N               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             C                                                 S                          C            S                          S
Commercial Kitchen                                                    N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                R                R                          R            R                          R
Community Center – Non-Residential                                  C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             See the underlying Zoning        C                S                          C            S                          S
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Composting Facility                                                   N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   N*                               N*               N*                         N*           S*                         N*
Concrete or Asphalt Batch Plant                                       N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Conference or Convention Center                                       N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            S                          S
Contractor’s Yard                                                   N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          N
Correctional Facility                                                 N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Country Club                                                          C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          N            N                          S
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Crematorium                                                           C            C               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          R            S                          See Cemetery
Cultural Center                                                       N            N               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             See the underlying Zoning        N                S                          N            N                          S
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Data Center                                                           N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          N
Day Care Center Establishment                                         C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                                                              C                S                          C            S                          S
Day Care Center, Type A                                               N            N               R                                    R                                                                     N                N                          N            N                          S
Day Care Center, Type B                                               C            C               R                                    R                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          N            N                          S
Distillery – Distillery Pub. Macro                                  N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         N                R                          N            R                          N
Distillery – Distillery Pub. Micro                                  N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          N
Distillery – Farm Distillery                                        N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                                                    R*               N*                         R*           N*                         N*
Distillery – Macrodistillery (with or without Tap Room )            N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            R                          N
Distillery – Microdistillery (with Tap Room )                       N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Distillery - Microdistillery (without Tap Room )                      N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            R                          N
Donation Center                                                       N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          S
Drinking Establishment                                                N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Drive-Through Facilities                                              N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                C                S                          C            S                          S
Dry-Cleaning Plant                                                    N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Educational Institution , Private - Early Childhood , Elementary,     C1           C1              S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )1                                                             C1               S1                         C1           S1                         S1
Intermediary , or Secondary1                                                                                                                                                 See the underlying Zoning
Educational Institution , Private – Post-Secondary1                 N1           N1              N1                                   S (as set forth in a Final           District                         C1               S1                         C1           S1                         S1
                                                                                                                                        Development Plan )1
Educational Institution , Private – Technical                       N            N               N                                    N                                                                     C                S                          C            S                          S
                                                                      See Article
Educational Institution , Public                                      1, Section
                                                                      102.07
Electric or Heat Energy Production – see Article
1, Section                                                            N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   See the underlying Zoning        N*               N*                         N*           S*                         N*
102.11                                                                                                                                                                       District
Emergency Services , Private                                          N            N               N                                    N                                                                     C                S                          C            S                          S
                                                                      See Article
Emergency Services , Public                                           1, Section
                                                                      102.07
Event Facility                                                        N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                S                          N            S                          S
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Fairground                                                            N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            N                          S
Financial Institution                                                 N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
Flex Space, Commercial                                                N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         R                R                          R            R                          N
Flex Space, Industrial                                                N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          N
Food Hall                                                             N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            S                          S
Food Preparation/Wholesale Plant                                      N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          R            S                          N
Food Processing and Packaging Plant                                   N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Fuel Generation Plant                                                 N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Funeral Home/Mortuary                                                 N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                C                S                          C            S                          S
Gallery                                                               N            N               R (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Games of Chance Establishment                                         N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            S                          N
                                                                      See Article
Governmental Facilities                                               1, Section
                                                                      102.07
Health Spa                                                            N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Hospital                                                              N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            S                          S
Hotel/Motel                                                           N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            S                          N
Junkyard                                                              N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Kennel                                                                C            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        C                S                          C            S                          N
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Kiosk  Facility, Self-Service                                        N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                R                R                          R            R                          R
Laboratory                                                            N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          R            R                          N
Landfill /Incinerator                                                 N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Laundromat                                                            N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
Makerspace , Small                                                    N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         R                R                          R            R                          N
Makerspace , Large                                                    N            N               N                                    N                                                                     N                N                          R            R                          N
Manufacturing , Heavy (including qualifying Pilot Manufacturing       N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
operations)
Manufacturing , Light (including qualifying Pilot Manufacturing       N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          R            R                          N
operations)
                                                                      Not permitted in any Zoning District or within any portion of Genoa Township pursuant to Township Trustees Resolution 17-0720002 adopted in accordance with ORC 3796.29 on July 20, 2017, as may be amended – see Article
Marijuana - Cultivation, Dispensary, and/or Processing                1, Section
                                                                      102.13
                                                                      Not permitted in any Zoning District or within any portion of Genoa Township pursuant to Township Trustees Resolution 24-0620002 adopted in accordance with ORC 3780 and 3796.29 on June 20, 2024, as may be amended – see Article
Marijuana, Medical – Cultivators, Processors, and Retail Dispensarie1, Section
                                                                      102.13
Marina                                                                C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                                                              C                S                          C            S                          S
Marketplace, Indoor                                                   N            N               N                                    N                                                                     C                S                          C            S                          N
Marketplace, Outdoor                                                  N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        C                S                          C            S                          N
Medical Clinic , Small                                                N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         R                R                          R            R                          R
Medical Clinic , Medium                                               N            N               N                                    N                                                                     N                R                          R            R                          R
Medical Clinic , Large                                                N            N               N                                    N                                                                     N                S                          C            S                          S
Mobile Enterprise                                                     N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                C                S                          C            S                          N
Mobile Enterprise Court                                               N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        C                S                          C            S                          S
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Mobile Service Business                                               N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                C                S                          C            S                          N
Mobile Vending Business                                               N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        C                S                          C            S                          S
Museum                                                                N            N               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             Ristrict                                          R                          R            R                          R
Natural Resource Extraction (excluding Oil and Gas Production )       N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            N                          N
Natural Resource Protection                                           R            R               R                                    R                                    R                                R                R                          R            R                          R
Nightclub                                                             N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            S                          N
Nursery , Retail                                                      N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                                                    R*               S*                         R*           S*                         N*
Nursery , Wholesale                                                   C*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   See the underlying Zoning        N*               N*                         N*           S*                         N*
Office – Small                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         R                R                          R            R                          R
Office – Medium                                                     N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Office – Large                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                                                     N                S                          C            S                          N
Oil and Gas Production – Article
1, Section                                                            N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   N*                               N*               N*                         N*           S*                         N*
102.10
Open Space (any type, including greenspace and landscape buffers)     R            R               R                                    R                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
                                                                                                                                                                             District
                                                                      See Article
Outdoor Advertising                                                   1, Section
                                                                      102.09 and Article
                                                                      18 - Sign s
Parking Facility                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            S                          N
Parking Lot, Off-Street                                               N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
                                                                      See Article
Public Service Facility                                               1, Section
                                                                      102.07
Publishing Facility                                                   N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                R                R                          R            R                          N
Racetrack                                                             N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Recreation and/or Instructional Facility , Indoor                     N            N               R (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Recreation and/or Instructional Facility , Outdoor                    N            N               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             N                                C                S                          C            S                          S
Recycling Collection Facility , Large                                 N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            R                          N
Recycling Collection Facility , Small                                 N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          R            R                          N
Religious Establishment                                               C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             See the underlying Zoning        C                S                          C            S                          S
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Research and Development Facility                                     N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          R            R                          N
Restaurant, Delivery-Only                                             N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          N
Restaurant, Full-Service                                              N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
Restaurant, Limited-Service                                           N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         R                R                          R            R                          N
Retail Establishment , Small                                          N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          N
Retail Establishment , Medium                                         N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                R                R                          R            R                          N
Retail Establishment , Large                                          N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            N                          N
Sales, Rental, and Service , Commercial Motor Vehicle                 N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Sales, Rental, and Service , Event                                    N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          N
Sales, Rental, and Service , Heavy Equipment                          N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Sales, Rental, and Service , Light Equipment                          N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                R                R                          R            R                          N
Sales, Rental, and Service , Machine                                  N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                C                S                          C            S                          N
Sales, Rental, and Service , Manufactured, Mobile, or Recreational    N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          C            S                          N
Building/Vehicle                                                                                                                                                             District
Sales, Rental, and Service , Vehicle                                  N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            S                          N
Sales, Rental, and Service , Watercraft                               N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            S                          N
Service Business – Charitable                                       N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Service Business – Contract                                         N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          N
Service Business – Education                                        N            N               R (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             Ree the underlying Zoning                         R                          R            R                          R
Service Business – In-Home                                          N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         R                R                          R            R                          R
Service Business – Personal Care                                    N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Service Business – Pet                                              C            N               N                                    N                                                                     C                S                          C            S                          N
Service Business – Professional                                     N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          N
Service Business – Repair                                           N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
Service Business – Support                                          N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         N                N                          R            R                          N
Sexually Oriented Business                                            N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            N                          N
Shopping Center , Neighborhood                                        N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                S                          N            N                          N
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Shopping Center , Community                                           N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            N                          N
Shopping Center , Regional                                            N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          N            N                          N
Short-Term Rental                                                     C            C               N                                    S (as set forth in a Final           See the underlying Zoning        C                S                          N            N                          N
Short-Term Rental Complex                                             N            N               N                                    Development Plan )                   District                         C                S                          N            N                          N
Sign s                                                                See Article
                                                                      18, Signs
Solar Facility , Large                                                N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   N*                               N*               N*                         C*           S*                         N*
Solar Facility , Small - see Article
1, Section                                                            N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            R                          N
102.15
Stables, Commercial /Riding Academy                                   C*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   See the underlying Zoning        N*               N*                         N*           N*                         N*
Stadium                                                               N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         N                N                          N            N                          S
Storage Terminal                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Storage Yard                                                          N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          N
Studio, Broadcasting and/or Recording                                 N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                R                R                          R            R                          R
Studio, Business-Service                                              N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                R                R                          R            R                          N
Studio, Development                                                   N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
Studio, Personal-Service                                              N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         R                R                          R            R                          N
Studio, Production                                                    N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Substance Abuse Treatment Clinic                                      N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Telecommunications Tower – as regulated by Section 2204             N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   N*                               N*               N*                         C*           S*                         N*
Temporary Use s and Special Events                                    See Article
                                                                      24, Temporary Use s and Structure s
Transportation Services and Facilities                                N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          N
Truck Terminal                                                        N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Utilities, Private                                                    N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          N
                                                                      See Article
Utilities, Public                                                     1, Section
                                                                      102.06
Veterinary Clinic                                                     N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Warehouse, Bulk Storage                                               N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            S                          N
Warehouse, Distribution Center                                        N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Warehouse, General                                                    N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          R            R                          N
Warehouse, Mini and/or Self-Storage                                   N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Warehouse, Records                                                    N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          R            R                          N
Warehouse, Retail                                                     N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          C            R                          N
Waste Transfer Facility                                               N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
                                                                      See Article
Wind Farm, Large                                                      22, Section
                                                                      2205.03
Wind Farm, Small - see Article
1, Section
102.15 and Article                                                    C            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          C            S                          N
22, Section                                                                                                                                                                  District
2205
Winery – Winepub. Macro                                             N            N               N                                    N                                                                     N                R                          N            R                          N
Winery – Winepub. Micro                                             N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          N
Winery – Farm Winery                                                N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   See the underlying Zoning        R*               N*                         R*           N*                         N*
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Winery – Macrowinery (with or without Tap Room )                    N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            R                          N
Winery - Microwinery (with Tap Room )                                 N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
                                                                                                                                                                             District
Winery – Microwinery (without Tap Room )                            N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            R                          N
 
1This Use shall be permitted on any Lot or Tract containing a Religious
Establishment , regardless of Zoning District designation, subject to Article
17.
Section 506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses
Legal Approvals may or may not be required; additional restrictions may apply
R = Permitted by Right but still subject to applicable standards within the
Zoning Resolution.
C = Permitted by Conditional Use (see Article
3,
17,
22,
23, and/or
24)
S = Permitted by Right with specific standards (see Articles
17,
22,
23,
24, and/or the regulations for the subject Zoning District )
N = Not Permitted (i.e., Prohibited)
* = Use may be wholly or partially exempted from township zoning control by
state and/or federal law. Applicable provisions herein this Resolution
otherwise still apply.
          ZONING DISTRICT
ACCESSORY RR – Rural SR – Suburban PRD – Planned Residential District PRD – Planned Residential District HOD – Hoover Watershed Overlay CB – Community PCD – Planned Commercial LI – Light PID – Planned Industrial PCF – Planned Community
USE       Residential  Residential     w/o                                  with Conservation                    (supersedes where applicable)    Business         District                   Industrial   District                   Facilities
                                       Conservation
                                                                        ZONING DISTRICT
ACCESSORY USE                                                           RR – Rural SR – Suburban PRD – Planned Residential District PRD – Planned Residential District HOD – Hoover Watershed Overlay CB – Community PCD – Planned Commercial LI – Light PID – Planned Industrial PCF – Planned Community
                                                                        Residential  Residential     w/o                                  with Conservation                    (supersedes where applicable)    Business         District                   Industrial   District                   Facilities
                                                                                                     Conservation
General Use s
                                                                        Not permitted in any Zoning District or within any portion of Genoa Township pursuant to Township Trustees Resolution 24-0620002 adopted in accordance with ORC 3780 and 3796.29 on June 20, 2024, as may be amended – see Article
Adult Use Cannabis Operations                                           1, Section
                                                                        102.13
Accessory Buildings and Structures                                      R            R               R                                    R                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Accessory Storage                                                       R            R               R                                    R                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Agriculture – see Article
1, Section
102.03 and Article                                                      R*           N*              R (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )*                            N*                                                N*                         N*           N*                         N*
23, Section                                                                                                                                                                    See the underlying Zoning
2302                                                                                                                                                                           District
Agritourism – see Article
1, Section
102.04 and Article                                                      N*           N*              R (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )*                            N*                                                N*                         N*           N*                         R*
23, Section
2303
                                                                        R - See Article
                                                                        1, Section
Amateur Radio Service Communications                                    102.16 and Article
                                                                        22, Section
                                                                        2203
Amusement Arcade                                                        N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
                                                                                                                                                                               District
                                                                        R/S - See Article
Antennas, Aerial or Satellite Dish                                      22, Section
                                                                        2203
Automobile Wash (open to the public or members)                         N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                S                          C            S                          N
                                                                                                                                                                               District
Automobile Wash (internal use only, not open to the public)             N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
Aviation Facility                                                       C*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   District                         C*               S*                         C*           S*                         S*
Battery Energy Storage System , Off-Site                                See Public Utilities or Private Utilities *
                                                                        R – See Article
Battery Energy Storage System , On-Site                                 22, Section
                                                                        2207*
Billboard                                                               R - See Article
                                                                        18, Sign s
Clubhouse                                                               C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                                                              C                S                          C            S                          S
Community Storage Lot                                                   C            C               S                                    S                                                                     N                N                          N            N                          N
Day Care Center, Type A                                                 C            C               R                                    R                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          N            N                          S
Day Care Center, Type B                                                 C            C               R                                    R                                    District                         N                N                          N            N                          S
Donation Center                                                         N            N               N                                    N                                                                     C                S                          C            S                          S
Drive-Through Facilities                                                N            N               N                                    N                                                                     C                S                          C            S                          S
Dwelling , Accessory1                                                   C1           C1              S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )1                            N1                                                N1                         N1           N1                         N1
                                                                        R – See Article
Electric Vehicle Chargers (exterior/outside units)                      16, Section
                                                                        1621
                                                                        R - See Article
Entry Feature s                                                         16, Section
                                                                        1605
Facilities Support                                                      R (only when constructed in conjunction with a permitted Principal Use and, if applicable, as set forth in a Final Development Plan ,   R                R                          R            R                          R
                                                                        otherwise N)
Farm Market – see Article
1, Section                                                                                                                                                                     See the underlying Zoning
102.05 and Article                                                      N*           N*              N*                                   N*                                   District                         R*               R*                         R*           R*                         R*
23, Section
2304
                                                                        R - See Article
Fences                                                                  16, Section
                                                                        1603
                                                                                                     S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan for a Country Club , Golf
Fleet Maintenance Facility                                              C            C               Course , a public entity, or to service the subject Planned Development   See the underlying Zoning        C                S                          C            S                          C
                                                                                                     only; otherwise, N)                                                       District
Games of Chance Establishment                                           N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          N
Game Fields/Courts                                                      R            R               R                                    R                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Golf Course                                                             C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          N            N                          S
                                                                                                                                                                               District
Guest House                                                             See Dwelling , Accessory
Home Occupation, No-Impact                                              R            R               R                                    R                                                                     R (only in conjunction with a Dwelling , otherwise N)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C (only in
                                                                                                                                                                               C (only in conjunction with a                     S (as set forth in a Final conjunction  S (as set forth in a Final S (as set forth in a
Home Occupation, Low Impact                                             C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             Dwelling , otherwise N)                           Development Plan )         with a       Development Plan )         Final Development Plan )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Dwelling ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            otherwise N)
Laboratory                                                              N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
Landing Pad/Strip                                                       C            N               N                                    N                                    District                         N                S                          N            S                          S
Landscaping Feature (s)                                                 R            R               R                                    R                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Lounge                                                                  R (only when constructed in conjunction with a permitted Principal Use and, if applicable, as set      R                                R                R                                       R                          R
                                                                        forth in a Final Development Plan ; otherwise, N)
Makerspace                                                              N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Manufacturing , Light (including qualifying Pilot Manufacturing         N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
operations)
                                                                        Not permitted in any Zoning District or within any portion of Genoa Township pursuant to Township Trustees Resolution 17-0720002 adopted in accordance with ORC 3796.29 on July 20, 2017, as may be amended – see Article
Marijuana Cultivation, Dispensary, and/or Processing                    1, Section
                                                                        102.13
Marijuana, Medical – Cultivators, Processors, and Retail Dispensaries Not permitted in any Zoning District or within any portion of Genoa Township pursuant to Township Trustees Resolution 24-0620002 adopted in accordance with ORC 3780 and 3796.29 on June 20, 2024, as may be amended – see Article
and/or Adult Use Cannabis Operators                                     1, Section
                                                                        102.13
Medical Clinic – Ancillary                                            N            N               N                                    R (as set forth in a Final                                            R                R                          R            R                          R
                                                                                                                                          Development Plan )
Mobile Enterprise                                                       N            N                                                                                         C                                                 S (as set forth in a Final C
Mobile Service Business                                                 N            N               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             C                                C                Development Plan )                      S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )
Mobile Vending Business                                                 N            N                                                                                         C                                C
Office - Ancillary                                                      N            N               N                                    R (as set forth in a Final           See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
                                                                                                                                          Development Plan )                   District
Off-Road Motorized Vehicle Track                                        C            N               N                                    N                                                                     N                N                          N            N                          N
Open Space (any type including greenspace and landscape buffers)        R            R               R                                    R                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Outdoor Collection                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                                                     C                S                          C            S                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                R - See Article
Outdoor Display                                                         N            N               N                                    N                                                                     16, Section
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1610
                                                                        R - See Article
Outdoor Storage                                                         16, Section
                                                                        1610
Parking Facility                                                        N            N               S                                    S                                    N                                R                R                          R            R                          R
Parking Lot, Off-Street (for Non-Residential Use )                      R (only when constructed in conjunction with a permitted Principal Use and, if applicable, as set      See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
                                                                        forth in a Final Development Plan , otherwise N)                                                       District
Parking Lot, Off-Street (for Residential Use )                          R            R               R                                    R                                    R                                R                R                          R            R                          R
Pool House                                                              R            R               R                                    R                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          N            N                          N
                                                                                                                                                                               District
                                                                        R- See Article
Portable Storage Unit s                                                 24, Section
                                                                        2405
Restaurant, Delivery-Only                                               N            N               N                                    R (as set forth in a Final           See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
Restaurant, Limited-Service                                             N            N               N                                    Development Plan )                   District                         R                R                          R            R                          R
Retail , Ancillary                                                      N            N               N                                                                                                          R                R                          R            R                          R
Sales, Rental, and Service , Heavy Equipment                            N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            S                          N
Sales, Rental, and Service , Light Equipment                            N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          N
                                                                                                                                                                               District
Sales, Rental, and Service , Machine                                    N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                C                S                          C            S                          N
Sales, Rental, and Service , Vehicle (rental only) – Excludes         N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                S                          C            S                          N
Commercial Motor Vehicle s
Service Business (all sub-types)                                        N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
                                                                                                                                                                               District
Sexually Oriented Business                                              N            N               N                                    N                                    N                                N                N                          N            N                          N
Short-Term Rental                                                       C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          N            N                          N
                                                                                                                                                                               District
Sign s                                                                  R - See Article
                                                                        18, Signs
Solar Facility , Small - see Article
1, Section
102.15 and Article                                                      C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                                                              C                S                          C            S                          S
22, Section                                                                                                                                                                    See the underlying Zoning
2206                                                                                                                                                                           District
                                                                                                                                                                                                                R- See Article
Swimming Pool, Commercial                                               N            N               N                                    N                                                                     16, Section
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1614
                                                                        R - See Article
Swimming Pool, Residential                                              16, Section
                                                                        1614
                                                                        R - See Article
Telecommunications, Accessory                                           22, Section
                                                                        2204
Temporary Structure s – Contractor’s Offices                        R - See Article
                                                                        24, Temporary Use s and Structure s
Temporary Structure s – Real Estate Offices                           R - See Article
Temporary Structure s – Roadside Stands                               24, Temporary Use s and Structure s
Temporary Use s and Special Events
                                                                        R - See Article
Utilities, Public                                                       1, Section
                                                                        102.06
Utilities, Private                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        N                N                          R            R                          N
Vending, Mechanical                                                     N            N               N                                    N                                    District                         R                R                          R            R                          R
Vending, Self-Service                                                   N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
                                                                        R - See Article
Wall, Accessory                                                         16, Section
                                                                        1603
                                                                        R - See Article
Wall, Retaining                                                         16, Section
                                                                        1603
Warehouse, Bulk Storage                                                 N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Warehouse, General                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Warehouse, Records                                                      N            N               N                                    N                                                                     R                R                          R            R                          R
Warehouse, Retail                                                       N            N               N                                    N                                    See the underlying Zoning        R                R                          R            R                          R
Wind Farm, Small – see Article                                                                                                                                               District
1, Section
102.15 and Article                                                      C            C               S (as set forth in a Final Development Plan )                             C                                                 S                          C            S                          S
22, Section
2205
 
1Accessory Dwellings shall be permitted on any Lot or Tract containing a
Religious Establishment , regardless of Zoning District designation, subject to
Article
17.
ARTICLE 6: Rural Residential District (RR)
Section 601: Introduction
601.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   The intent of the Rural Residential District is to create a residential
Zoning District that protects public health, safety, and general welfare, and
preserves and protects surface and groundwater quality, retains open space ,
preserves woodlands, wetlands and other environmentally sensitive areas, and
permits low Density residential development that fits the natural landscape.
601.02   Applicability.
   A)   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all lands zoned Rural
Residential District (RR) subject to Article
1 of this Resolution.
   B)   Any Lot depicted on the Zoning Map as being wholly or partially within
the Hoover Reservoir Watershed shall also be subject to the additional
provisions established within Article
7 of this Zoning Resolution, the Hoover Watershed Overlay District (HOD).
Should these two articles conflict with one another, the requirements of
Article
7 shall apply unless otherwise expressly stated within this Resolution.
Section 602: Use s
602.01   Permitted Principal Uses shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses
602.02   Permitted Accessory Uses shall be as established within Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses.
602.03   Permitted Conditional Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses and Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses. Authorized Conditional Use s shall
adhere to Article
3 of this Resolution and shall demonstrate compliance with any applicable
conditions established for said Use within Articles
17,
22,
23, and/or
24.
602.04   All Use s not specifically authorized as a permitted or conditionally
permitted Use by Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses, Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses, or another applicable portion of this
Zoning Resolution, are hereby prohibited.
602.05   Except as specifically permitted by Article
22, no Telecommunications Tower as defined in ORC 211(B)(1), as may be amended,
shall be allowed in this District.
602.06   Commercial or business Use of a Lot .
   A)   Any commercial, business, or similar Non-Residential Type Use on a Lot
in this District shall be prohibited unless otherwise specified within this
Resolution or operating as a lawful Home Occupation . This shall include, but
is not limited to, the parking of vehicles or equipment used in a business on a
residential Lot or the operation of a service-type business where no work takes
place on the site. An exception to the foregoing shall be made for any vehicle
owned by an individual who resides on the Lot in question and any Use permitted
within this Zoning District . No more than two (2) such vehicles may be
permitted.
   B)   Any rental or subletting of any component of, or amenity on, a Lot to
the general public for compensation shall be prohibited in this District.
Examples include Accessory Structures , fire pits, garages, gardens, patios,
recreational equipment , rooms, Swimming Pool s, treehouses, and yard space.
This prohibition shall not apply to any Use otherwise expressly permitted
elsewhere in, and in compliance with, this Resolution.
602.07   A Zoning Permit shall be obtained before any Use is initiated,
changed, or significantly altered in accordance with Section
115.02.
Section 603: Dimensional Requirements
603.01   Minimum Lot Area :
   A)   Two (2) acres.
   B)   Any portion of a Lot within a Common Access Driveway (CAD) easement(s)
or Street  Right-of-Way (existing or proposed) shall not count towards the
minimum Lot Area requirement.
   C)   Lots designated solely for the purpose of Governmental Facilities ,
Right-of-Way , designated Open Space preservation, Public Utilities , or
stormwater management shall be exempt from any Lot Area requirements. Such
designation shall be reflected in the Zoning Permit issued for the creation of
the Lot if one is required by this Resolution.
603.02   Minimum Lot  Frontage : One hundred fifty (150) feet, unless otherwise
specified below.
   A)   Corner Lots : One hundred fifty (150) feet, total.
   B)   Lots with Frontage on Streets with extreme curvature, e.g., cul-de-sac
s: Ninety-five (95) feet. No more than three (3) such Lots shall be permitted
along the same curvature. Said Lots shall not be considered Flag Lot s.
   C)   Flag Lots : Sixty (60) feet. Stacking Flag Lot s in a manner that would
result in the “pole” sections of two (2) or more Flag Lot s being Contiguous to
one another shall not be permitted.
   D)   Landlocked Lots : One hundred fifty (150) feet.
   E)   Lots meeting the criteria set forth in Section
603.01.C above shall be exempt from Frontage requirements.
603.03   Landlocked Lots shall be accessed by a Common Access Driveway (CAD) as
regulated by Section
1604. This provision shall not be interpreted as a prohibition of Flag Lot s or
any other Lot design otherwise permitted in Section
603.02.A - C.
603.04   Lot Width :
   A)   All Lots shall be at least sixty (60) feet wide between its required
Frontage and the required Front Yard  Setback .
   B)   All Lots shall be one hundred fifty (150) feet wide at the required
Front Yard  Setback .
   C)   Lots meeting the criteria set forth in Section
603.01.C above shall be exempt from Lot Width requirements.
603.05   Minimum Front Yard  Setback depth: Seventy-five (75) feet from the
Front Lot Line , unless otherwise specified below.
   A)   Lots in new subdivisions with platted Streets having a carrying
capacity of less than 2,000 vehicles per day, defined by ADT (Average Daily
Traffic) and served by public water and sewer, shall be permitted a minimum
Front Yard  Setback depth of fifty (50) feet from the Front Lot Line .
   B)   The Front Yard  Setback depth of a Flag Lot , or a Lot with Frontage on
a Street with extreme curvature, shall be fifty (50) feet, measured from the
point at which said Lot reaches one hundred fifty (150) feet in width.
603.06   Minimum Side Yard  Setback width, each side: Twenty-five (25) feet
from the Side Lot Line (s).
603.07   Minimum Rear Yard  Setback depth: Fifty (50) feet from the Rear Lot
Line .
603.08   Building or Structure Height limits: Unless otherwise permitted by
this Resolution, no Building or Structure in this District shall exceed thirty-
five (35) feet in height.
603.09   Lot Coverage Maximums:
   A)   Building  Lot Coverage shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the Lot
Area .
   B)   Impervious Surface Lot Coverage shall not exceed twenty-five (25%) of
the Lot Area .
603.10   All Accessory Buildings and Structures shall conform to the
requirements of Section
1609.
603.11   Parking and Driveways.
   A)   Parking activities, including spaces, drive aisles, and loading areas,
shall comply with Article
19 unless otherwise specified.
   B)   All driveways or pavement shall have a Setback of no less than two (2)
feet from the Lot Line .
   C)   All sideload garages shall have a turning pad of no less than twenty-
four (24) feet.
   D)   No driveway shall be located so that it enters a Street within forty
(40) feet of the intersection of the edge of the Contiguous  Right-of-Way of
any two (2) Streets .
   E)   Driveways within this District shall not be subject to the restrictions
of
1903.04.
603.12   Minimum Floor Area and Other Requirements.
   A)   The minimum residential Floor Area per Dwelling Unit within this Zoning
District shall be as established herein below. The minimum square footage of
Floor Areas listed above shall be exclusive of Porch es, breezeways, utility
areas, storage areas, unheated areas, unfinished areas, Basements, and Attached
Garages.
      1)   Dwelling Type:
         a)    One Story : One thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet of
Floor Area above grade.
         b)    1 ½/Split Level/Bi-level/Walkout: One thousand two hundred
(1,200 square feet of Floor Area with nine hundred (960) square feet on the
first floor above grade.
         c)    Two or more Stories : One thousand four hundred (1,400) square
feet of Floor Area with eight hundred (800) square feet on the first floor
above grade.
   B)   All Dwelling Units shall have a two (2) car Garage.
Section 604: District Standards
604.01   The provisions of Article
16, General Standards, shall apply to this Zoning District except as may
otherwise be modified within this document.
604.02   Landscaping Standards set forth in Article
20 shall only apply to Lots within this Zoning District containing Agricultural
Type Uses , Non-Residential Type Uses , and the following Residential Type Uses
: Community Center and Mobile Home Park .
604.03   Lighting:
   A)   Exterior lighting for parking facilities, Non-Residential Building s or
Structure s, Streets , public Swimming Pool s, and other similar types of
recreational amenities, as well as athletic fields, courts , and the like
(public or private), shall be installed in accordance with Article
21 of this Zoning Resolution.
   B)   Freestanding lighting fixtures and lanterns not otherwise regulated
herein shall be no taller than twenty-five (25) feet in Height , measured from
the base of the fixture, inclusive of any supporting or protective bases.
   C)   Lighting shall be permitted to have colors or shades that change, but
shall not be permitted to flash, change, move, and/or pulse in a rapid and
hazardous manner.
   D)   All other lighting or lighting characteristics within this District not
otherwise regulated herein shall be exempt from Article
21 (e.g., coach lights, chandeliers, uplighting, accent lighting, pathway
lighting, security lighting, and holiday décor).
604.04   Sign s shall be subject to the provisions within Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
604.05   Cluster Box Units (CBUs) shall be subject to the provisions within
Article
16, Section
1620 of this Zoning Resolution.
604.06   Swimming Pool s and Water Impoundments shall be subject to the
provisions within Section
1614 of this Zoning Resolution.
604.07   Waste, including debris, Junk , garbage, litter, refuse, and trash, as
well as compost and recyclables, shall be controlled and stored in containers.
Dumpsters, and other similar types of large waste containers that are typically
not moved by Manual means, and which are not considered to be a Portable
Storage Unit , shall not be permitted in a required Front Yard and shall be
enclosed and screened in accordance with Section
2004.
604.08   Outdoor Storage and Displays shall be regulated by Section
1610 of this Zoning Resolution.
604.09   Portable Storage Unit s shall be regulated by Section
2405 of this Zoning Resolution.
Section 605: Administration and Enforcement
605.01   Applications for Rezoning to the Rural Residential District shall be
administered in accordance with Article
26.
605.02   Applications for Zoning Permit s and Certificates of Compliance shall
be administered in accordance with Section
115 as well as all other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
605.03   Applications for Variance s, Conditional Use s, and Administrative
Appeals shall be administered in accordance with Article
3.
605.04   A Zoning Permit shall be required for any subdivision of property
within the Rural Residential District that requires the signature of the Genoa
Township Zoning Inspector.
605.05   Enforcement shall be conducted pursuant to Section
116 as well as all other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
605.06   Non-conforming Lot s, Use s, and Structure s shall be subject to
Article
25.
ARTICLE 7: Hoover Watershed Overlay District (HOD)
Section 701: Introduction
701.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   Hoover Reservoir and its associated watershed are important and
invaluable assets to Genoa Township as they both comprise a significant portion
of the Township, are a primary source of potable water for the region, offer
numerous opportunities for recreation, promote tourism, enhance property
values, and serve as a vital habitat for a variety of species of native plants
and animals, thus positively contributing to the overall wellness of the
community. As such, it is within the interests of the public’s health, safety,
and general welfare to take proper measures to conserve and protect these
unique and critical resources, to the greatest extent possible, from
degradation, unbalanced runoff, erosion, excessive sedimentation, pollution of
all types, traffic congestion, and over-development.
   B)   It is the policy of the Township to permit the creation of the Hoover
Watershed Overlay District (HOD) to:
      1)   Establish restrictive regulations that supplement and/or supersede
other standards within this Zoning Resolution to protect the water quality,
natural character, recreational amenities, riparian zones, and scenic beauty of
Hoover Reservoir, its watershed, and its tributaries, while still providing for
reasonable economic use of such property within Genoa Township.
      2)   Promote responsible development that is context-sensitive ,
Pedestrian-Friendly , and environmentally conscious by incorporating certain
best practices regarding land management and stewardship.
      3)   Create opportunities for the public to access, study, and enjoy
Hoover Reservoir, its watershed, and associated environs via interconnected
greenways and waterways.
      4)   Preserve the remaining agricultural, forested, and/or undeveloped
lands within the subject watershed to the greatest extent practical and
possible by requiring larger and/or more robust landscape buffers.
      5)   Retain and/or establish viewsheds, vistas, night sky visibility,
rural character, and corridors for native vegetation and wildlife to the
greatest extent practical by means of protected open space , critical resource
protection measures, and stringent lighting controls.
      6)   Restrict land Use s to those that: are comparatively less intense in
nature, are relatively clean in operation, serve the typical, daily needs of
nearby residents, enhance the area’s more passive, bucolic ambiance, and/or are
not vehicular-centric.
      7)   Provide for consistency with the Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan .
701.02   The standards within this Article shall apply to all Lots or Tract s
within Genoa Township that are located wholly or partially within the Hoover
Reservoir Watershed , as further depicted on the Zoning Map , regardless of
their existing or proposed Zoning District classification, subject to Article
1 of this Resolution. This overlay zoning designation shall not remove or
replace any existing zoning designation, but rather shall be considered in
addition to, and co-existing with, the existing underlying Zoning District .
701.03   Unless otherwise stated, the standards within this Article
7 shall supersede and control over any other conflicting standard within this
Resolution. Any ambiguity shall be determined by the standards in this Article.
701.04   Unless otherwise stated or superseded, all other provisions within
this Zoning Resolution shall remain applicable to properties subject to this
overlay district.
Section 702: Reserved
Section 703: Design Standards for Planned Development s
703.01   The standards within this Section shall apply to all Planned Zoning
Districts , whether existing or proposed, within the Hoover Watershed Overlay
District (HOD), as well as all existing or proposed Planned Development s
within the HOD. The requirements and restrictions of the base District,
existing or proposed, shall still apply for any standard not expressly
regulated, supplemented, or altered herein. Should a conflict between
regulations exist, the stricter requirement shall apply pursuant to Sections
701.02 –
04 of this Article.
703.02   Permitted Density shall be regulated by the underlying Planned
District, existing or proposed.
703.03   Open Space areas shall be provided around the entire perimeter of the
Lot or Tract . Such areas shall count towards the Planned Development’s
required Open Space acreage.
   A)   Perimeter buffers shall be required as follows:
      1)   A fifty (50) foot wide No Build Zone shall be provided immediately
adjacent to any Lot containing Hoover Reservoir and owned by the City of
Columbus (or its successors). Measurements shall be taken from the shared Lot
Line . Sidewalks, trails, multi-use paths, boardwalks, residential docks, and
other such conservation-related land uses, or recreational amenities shall be
permitted within the No Build Zone .
      2)   A fifty (50) foot wide Common Open Space and/or Improved Common Open
Space buffer shall be provided immediately adjacent to any No Build Zone
required by Section
703.03.A.1.
      3)   A One hundred (100) foot Common Open Space and/or Improved Common
Open Space buffer shall be provided along any Contiguous  Lot or Tract not
otherwise regulated by Section
703.03.A.1 above. Measurements shall be taken from the shared Lot Line .
      4)   A One hundred seventy (170) foot Common Open Space and/or Improved
Common Open Space buffer shall be provided along any of the Tract’s perimeter
street Frontage , measured from the Right-of-Way line.
   B)   The perimeter of said area shall be planted as follows:
      1)   A mixture of erosion and pollution control plantings shall be
planted at a rate of one (1) native deciduous or evergreen tree and three (3)
native shrubs or tall grasses for every fifty (50) feet of site perimeter
immediately adjacent to any Lot or Tract containing Hoover Reservoir and owned
by the City of Columbus (or its successors).
      2)   Two (2) native evergreen trees and three (3) native deciduous trees
for every fifty (50) feet of linear site perimeter not immediately adjacent to
a Lot or Tract not otherwise regulated by Section
703.03.B.1.
      3)   Required plantings shall be planted in staggered rows or groupings
to create a natural-looking landscape buffer but shall still generally cover
the entire linear perimeter of the Lot or Tract .
      4)   In sections where existing woody vegetation, which is proven to be
healthy, mature, and abundant enough to serve as a visual screen, occurs along
the perimeter of the Lot or Tract , said vegetation may be credited towards the
above planting requirements. Such sections shall be clearly depicted, defined,
and identified on a site or landscape plan drawing.
      5)   If a designated low-mow or no-mow zone is provided in Common Open
Space sections abutting existing and designated Common Open Space areas on
immediately adjacent properties, the linear footage shall not count towards the
number of plantings required herein, thereby resulting in a reduction in the
number of required plantings.
         a)   A no-mow zone shall be considered to be any portion of land on
which mowing is expressly prohibited to allow for natural biological
progression and habitation.
         b)   A low-mow zone shall be considered to be any portion of land on
which mowing is expressly restricted to no more than one (1) time every six (6)
months.
         c)   To qualify for the reduction, an individual low-mow or no-mow
zone shall be at least fifty (50) feet wide by one hundred (100) feet long.
         d)   Such a zone(s) shall be clearly depicted, defined, and identified
on a site or landscape plan drawing.
      6)   If a designated low-mow or no-mow zone is provided within the street
Frontage buffer required by Section
703.03.A.4, the number of required plantings for said area shall be reduced by
fifty percent (50%), subject to the provisions of Sections
703.03.B.5.a through
703.03.B.5.d. Should an odd number of plantings be initially required, the
permitted reduction shall round down to the nearest whole number.
      7    The targeted removal of dead, dying, noxious, and/or invasive
vegetation of any type and that is determined to be posing an immediate threat
to health, safety, or general welfare in such an area shall be permitted,
subject to any established re-vegetation or replacement policies.
   C)   No Building or Structure shall be permitted within said area unless
approved as part of the Planned Development’s Common Open Space .
   D)   No Limited Common Element Area shall be permitted within said area.
703.04   Critical Resource Protection.
   A)   All Building s, Structure s, Street s, and Lots to be developed shall
be set back at least one hundred (100) feet from any Lot containing Hoover
Reservoir.
   B)   All Building s, Structure s, Street s, and Lot Lines shall be set back
at least fifty (50) feet from any Primary Conservation Area (s).
   C)   Sidewalks, trails, multi-use paths, boardwalks, residential docks, and
other such conservation-related land uses, or recreational amenities shall be
exempt from the above Setback requirements.
   D)   Parking lots, clubhouses, and other similar facilities shall not be
exempt from the above requirements unless said facility is pre-existing. Pre-
existing facilities within the Setback s herein may be improved but not
expanded.
   E)   No Limited Common Element Area shall be permitted within the required
Setback s for any critical resource protection area herein.
703.05   Reserved.
703.06   Layout.
   A)   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of Lots consisting of Dwelling s
within the Planned Development shall abut a designated Open Space of at least
half (1/2) an acre in size. A minimum of sixty (60) continuous linear feet per
Lot shall abut a designated Open Space to count towards this requirement.
703.07   Stormwater Management.
   A)   Except for underground basins, any basin located closer than fifty (50)
feet to a Street  Right-of-Way or within a required Common Open Space perimeter
buffer or setback shall be designed as a wet basin or as a naturalized basin
unless otherwise restricted or prohibited by the Delaware County Engineer.
   B)   Setback s.
      1)   All above-ground stormwater basins shall be set back a minimum of
twenty (20) feet from: Lot Lines , Structure s, designated Building Envelopes ,
and designated Limited Common Element Areas.
      2)   The setback distance shall be measured landward from the maximum one
hundred (100) year stormwater surface elevation of the basin during a one
hundred (100) year storm.
   C)   Landscaping .
      1)   All above-ground basins shall have a landscape buffer around their
entire perimeter. For every one hundred (100) feet of basin perimeter to be
buffered, the following minimum quantities and types of plant materials shall
be required:
         a)   Two (2) native evergreen trees.
         b)   Two (2) native ornamental trees.
         c)   One (1) native canopy tree.
      2)   All plantings, required or otherwise, shall be installed to not
interfere with the proper function of the basin.
         a)   Plantings shall not be installed on any Fill embankment or within
ten (10) feet of the toe or top of a slope.
         b)   Required plantings that cannot be placed due to functionality
restrictions shall be placed as close to the subject basin as possible.
703.08   Parking and Loading Areas.
   A)   No parking lot shall be located closer than one hundred seventy (170)
feet from the edge of the Contiguous  Street  Right-of-Way .
   B)   Parking lots shall be landscaped and screened in accordance with
Articles
19 and
20. In addition, the following shall also be required:
      1)   One planting island shall be provided every fifteen (15) parking
spaces and at the end of each parking row unless an end cap is required. No
more than fifteen (15) parking spaces may be situated between planting islands.
      2)   An end cap planting island shall be provided at the end of each row
of parking.
      3)   The pervious area of all required planting islands shall be at least
twelve (12) feet wide and fifteen (15) feet long.
      4)   Every required parking island shall be planted with one (1) native
deciduous tree with a clear trunk at least six (6) feet above the finished
grade to allow vehicular circulation and visibility beneath the canopy .
   C)   Parking activities, including spaces, drive aisles, and loading areas,
shall comply with Article
19 unless otherwise specified.
703.09   Streets .
   A)   Dead-end stub Streets , including full or quasi hammerheads, Y-turns,
and the like, as well as Common Access Driveways (CAD) shall not be permitted
unless otherwise required by the Genoa Township Fire Marshal or the Delaware
County Engineer. This standard shall not be interpreted to be a prohibition of
cul-de-sac s designed to public standards or stub streets being provided to
allow for future connection to an immediately adjacent Lot or Tract .
703.10   Sidewalks, Multi-Use Paths , and Trails.
   A)   Sidewalks along Streets .
      1)   New Streets . Paved sidewalks and/or Multi-Use Paths shall be
provided along both sides of any new public or private Street .
      2)   Existing Streets . Paved sidewalks and/or Multi-Use Paths shall be
provided along any existing public or private Street within or immediately
abutting the Planned Development .
      3)   Whether a sidewalk or Multi-Use Path is installed shall be
determined based on the context of the surrounding area. Consistency in the
type (sidewalk or Multi-Use Path ) with neighboring properties and/or with any
paved pedestrian network already established along the subject Street corridor
shall be maintained and continued whenever possible, logical, and safe to do
so.
      4)   A Divergence shall be required to not install required sidewalks
and/or Multi-Use Paths . For such a Divergence to be warranted, in addition to
the standards of Article
27, Section
2707, easements allowing for future construction and maintenance by the
Township, or its assignee, and public pedestrian access shall be provided in
lieu of the above. Easements shall be recorded with the Delaware County
Recorder prior to the issuance of a Zoning Permit for any Building within the
Planned Development .
         a)   The width of said easement shall be at least twenty (20) feet.
         b)   Easements shall be recorded prior to the issuance of any Zoning
Permit for Building s within the Planned Development .
   B)   A Multi-Use Path or Trail system shall be provided in any required Open
Space buffer required by Section
703.04 herein in accordance with Sections
703.10.A.3 and
703.10.A.4 above.
   C)   Sidewalks shall be at least five (5) feet wide and constructed of
concrete or another similar type of surface.
   D)   Multi-Use Paths shall be at least ten (10) feet wide and constructed of
asphalt or another similar type of surface.
   E)   Trails, where provided, shall be at least four (4) feet wide and may be
paved or unpaved but must be visually delineated in some fashion.
703.11   Sign s shall be subject to the provisions within Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
703.12   Landscaping .
   A)   The types and sizes of all required landscape plantings shall adhere to
Sections
2005 and
2006 of this Resolution.
   B)   All required Landscaping in the Final Development Plan /Amendment shall
be maintained. Dead and dying plants shall be replaced with a plant of a
similar type no later than the subsequent planting season.
703.13   Waste, including debris, Junk , litter, refuse, and trash, as well as
compost and recyclables, shall be controlled and stored in containers.
Dumpsters, and other similar types of large waste containers which are
typically not moved by Manual means, and which are not considered to be a
Portable Storage Unit , shall not be permitted in a required Front Yard and
shall be enclosed and screened in accordance with Section
2004.
703.14   Non-Residential Building s, Structure s, and Surfaces.
   A)   Total land occupancy by all non-residential Building s, Structure s,
and Impervious Surfaces shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the area of the
Lot or Tract .
   B)   No Structure shall exceed 20,000 square feet in gross Floor Area . A
Commonly Controlled Business Operation shall not exceed the usage of 20,000
square feet of gross Floor Area within one or more Structure s.
703.15   Lighting.
   A)   Light fixtures taller than eight (8) feet and intended to service the
entire Planned Development shall only be permitted in the following locations:
      1)   Vehicular access point(s) into the Planned Development ;
      2)   Street intersections within the Planned Development ;
      3)   Where any Street intersects with a pedestrian route, such as, but
not necessarily limited to, sidewalks, trails, crosswalks, and Multi-Use Paths
;
      4)   Where any cluster mail kiosks are provided;
      5)   Adjacent to a recreational amenity, such as, but not necessarily
limited to, playground equipment, exercise stations, pools, playfields, game
courts , and the like;
      6)   Adjacent to parking lots; and/or
      7)   Adjacent to any waste collection area, such as, but not necessarily
limited to, dumpsters.
   B)   The restrictions established within Section
703.15.A above shall not apply to, or be considered a prohibition of, the
installation of architectural lighting, landscape lighting, decorative
lighting, and/or Sign lighting.
   C)   All lighting pertaining to Sign s shall comply with all applicable
provisions of Article
18.
   D)   All lighting not pertaining to Sign s and not otherwise regulated
herein shall comply with the applicable provisions of Article
21 if required by the underlying Zoning District .
Section 704: Uses
704.01   Permitted Principal Use s for all properties subject to the Hoover
Watershed Overlay District, regardless of their underlying Zoning District ,
shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses. Unless otherwise specified, a
Principal Use must also be permitted in the underlying Zoning District in order
to be authorized.
704.02   Unless otherwise specified, all lawful Accessory Uses permitted within
an underlying Zoning District shall continue to be permitted within said
District in accordance with any regulations or stipulations set forth within
Article
16 and/or the underlying Zoning District applicable to the given Lot or Tract .
704.03   Unless otherwise specified, all lawful Conditional Use s permitted
within an underlying Zoning District shall continue to be permitted within said
District in accordance with Article
3, any supplemental regulations specified in Articles
17,
22,
23, and/or
24, and the underlying Zoning District applicable to the given Lot or Tract .
704.04   Unless otherwise specified, Use s that are prohibited within an
underlying Zoning District applicable to the given Lot or Tract shall remain
prohibited within said District.
704.05   Unless otherwise specified or controlled by Sections
704.02 or
704.03, Principal Use s that are permitted within an underlying Zoning District
applicable to a given Lot or Tract but not expressly listed as permitted within
this Section shall be considered prohibited for any Lot or Tract within the
Hoover Watershed Overlay District.
704.06   No permitted Use subject to this overlay district, be it Principal ,
Accessory , or Conditional , shall be permitted to operate a Drive-Through
Facility .
704.07   A Zoning Permit shall be obtained before any Use is initiated,
changed, or significantly altered in accordance with Section
115.02.
Section 705: Administration and Enforcement
705.01   All property subject to the Hoover Watershed Overlay District, as
further described within Section
701.02, shall be displayed on the Zoning Map and shall be considered to have
been zoned with said overlay upon successful adoption of this Article. As such:
   A)   Any Legal Approvals granted within the subject District, other than
Rezoning . shall be considered a ministerial act and shall not be considered an
amendment to the Genoa Township Zoning Resolution.
   B)   The existence of this overlay District shall not prohibit or preclude
the Re-Zoning of a Lot or Tract from one underlying Zoning District to another.
   C)   The Re-Zoning of a Lot or Tract within this overlay District from one
underlying Zoning District to another shall not void or invalidate the
applicability of the Hoover Watershed Overlay District.
   D)   The Re-Zoning of a Lot or Tract within this overlay District from one
underlying Zoning District to another shall be subject to the applicable
provisions of Article
26 and/or Article
27.
   E)   No additional property shall be re-zoned to add the Hoover Watershed
Overlay District designation unless it can be demonstrated that it is partially
or wholly located within the Hoover Reservoir Watershed . Any such re-zoning
shall be subject to the procedures set forth for Zoning Map Amendment s in
Article
26.
705.02   Applications for Zoning Permit s and Certificates of Compliance shall
be administered in accordance with Section
115 as well as all other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
705.03   Applications for Variance s, Conditional Use s, and Administrative
Appeals shall be administered in accordance with Article
3.
705.04   Applications and requests pertaining to Planned Development s shall be
administered in accordance with Article
27.
705.05   A Zoning Permit shall be required for any subdivision of property
within the Hoover Watershed Overlay District that requires the signature of the
Genoa Township Zoning Inspector.
705.06   Enforcement shall be conducted pursuant to Section
116 as well as any other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
705.07   Non-conforming Lot s, Use s, and Structure s shall be subject to
Article
25.
ARTICLE 8: Suburban Residential District (SR)
Section 801: Introduction
801.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   The intent of the Suburban Residential District is to create a
residential Zoning District that protects public health, safety, and general
welfare, and recognizes the demand for Single-Family residential Lots of low to
medium Density located Contiguous to urban areas.
801.02   Applicability.
   A)   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all lands zoned Suburban
Residential District (SR) subject to Article
1 of this Resolution.
   B)   The District is to be applied to areas currently served by central
water, central sewer wastewater treatment plants operated by the Delaware
County Sanitary Engineer, and by other Essential Services . The foregoing shall
not preclude any property not meeting this standard but already within this
District from being developed in accordance with the terms of this Zoning
Resolution.
   C)   Any Lot depicted on the Zoning Map as being wholly or partially within
the Hoover Reservoir Watershed shall also be subject to the additional
provisions established within Article
7 of this Zoning Resolution, the Hoover Watershed Overlay District (HOD).
Should these two articles conflict with one another, the requirements of
Article
7 shall apply unless otherwise expressly stated within this Resolution.
Section 802: Use s
802.01   Permitted Principal Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses.
802.02   Permitted Accessory Uses shall be as established within Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses.
802.03   Permitted Conditional Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses and Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses. Authorized Conditional Use s shall
adhere to Article
3 of this Resolution and shall demonstrate compliance with any applicable
conditions established for said Use within Articles
17,
22,
23, and/or
24.
802.04   All Use s not specifically authorized as a permitted or conditionally
permitted Use by Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses, Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses, or another applicable portion of this
Zoning Resolution, are hereby prohibited.
802.05   Except as specifically permitted by Article
22, no Telecommunications Tower as defined in ORC 519.211(B)(1), as may be
amended, shall be allowed in this District.
802.06   Commercial or business Use of a Lot .
   A)   Any commercial, business, or similar Non-Residential Type Use on a Lot
in this District shall be prohibited unless otherwise specified within this
Resolution or operating as a lawful Home Occupation . This shall include, but
is not limited to, the parking of vehicles or equipment used in a business on a
residential Lot or the operation of a service-type business where no work takes
place on the site. An exception to the foregoing shall be made for any vehicle
owned by an individual who resides on the Lot in question and any Use permitted
within this Zoning District . No more than two (2) such vehicles may be
permitted.
   B)   Any rental or subletting of any component of, or amenity on, a Lot to
the general public for compensation shall be prohibited in this District.
Examples include Accessory Structures , fire pits, garages, gardens, patios,
recreational equipment , rooms, Swimming Pool s, treehouses, and yard space.
This prohibition shall not apply to any Use otherwise expressly permitted
elsewhere in, and in compliance with, this Resolution.
802.07   A Zoning Permit shall be obtained before any Use is initiated,
changed, or significantly altered in accordance with Section
115.02.
Section 803: Dimensional Requirements
803.01   Minimum Lot Area :
   A)   Thirty thousand (30,000) square feet.
   B)   Regardless of sewer service, any portion of a Lot within a Common
Access Driveway (CAD) easement(s) or Street  Right-of-Way (existing or
proposed) shall not count towards the minimum Lot Area requirement.
   C)   Lots designated solely for the purpose of Governmental Facilities ,
Right-of-Way , designated Open Space preservation, Public Utilities , or
stormwater management shall be exempt from any Lot Area requirements. Such
designation shall be reflected in the Zoning Permit issued for the creation of
the Lot if one is required by this Resolution.
803.02   Minimum Lot  Frontage ; Eighty-five (85) feet, unless otherwise
specified below.
   A)   Corner Lots : Eighty-five (85) feet, total.
   B)   Lots with Frontage on Streets with extreme curvature, e.g., cul-de-sac
s: Sixty-five (65) feet. No more than three (3) such Lots shall be permitted
along the same curvature. Said Lots shall not be considered Flag Lot s.
   C)   Flag Lots : Sixty (60) feet. Stacking Flag Lots in a manner that would
result in the “pole” of sections of two (2) or more Flag Lot s being Contiguous
to one another shall not be permitted.
   D)   Landlocked Lots : Eighty-five (85) feet.
   E)   Lots meeting the criteria set forth in Section
803.01.C above shall be exempt from Frontage requirements.
803.03   Landlocked Lots shall be accessed by a Common Access Driveway (CAD) as
regulated by Section
1604. This provision shall not be interpreted as a prohibition of Flag Lot s or
any other Lot design otherwise permitted in Section
803.02.A - C.
803.04   Lot Width :
   A)   All Lots shall be at least sixty (60) feet wide between its required
Frontage and the required Front Yard  Setback .
   B)   All Lots shall be at least eighty-five (85) feet wide at the required
Front Yard  Setback .
   C)   Lots meeting the criteria set forth in Section
803.01.C above shall be exempt from Lot Width requirements.
803.05   Minimum Front Yard  Setback depth: Fifty (50) feet from the Front Lot
Line , unless otherwise specified below.
   A)   The Front Yard  Setback depth of a Flag Lot , or a Lot with Frontage on
a Street with extreme curvature, shall be fifty (50) feet, measured from the
point at which said Lot reaches eighty-five (85) feet in width.
803.06   Minimum Side Yard  Setback width, each side: Twelve (12) feet from the
Side Lot Line (s).
803.07   Minimum Rear Yard  Setback depth: Fifty (50) feet from the Rear Lot
Line .
803.08   Building or Structure Height limits: Unless otherwise permitted by
this Resolution, no Building or Structure in this District shall exceed thirty-
five (35) feet in Height .
803.09   Lot Coverage Maximums:
   A)   Building Coverage shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the Lot Area
.
   B)   Impervious Surface Lot Coverage shall not exceed thirty-five (35%) of
the Lot Area .
803.10   All Accessory Buildings and Structures shall conform to the
requirements of Section
1609.
803.11   Parking and Driveways.
   A)   Parking activities, including spaces, drive aisles, and loading areas,
shall comply with Article
19 unless otherwise specified.
   B)   All driveways or pavement shall have a Setback of no less than two (2)
feet from the Lot Line .
   C)   All sideload garages shall have a turning pad of no less than twenty-
four (24) feet.
   D)   No driveway shall be located so that it enters a Street within forty
(40) feet of the intersection of the edge of the Contiguous  Right-of-Way of
any two (2) Streets .
   E)   All driveways and parking areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic
concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, or permeable pavement.
803.12   Minimum Floor Area and Other Requirements.
   A)   The minimum residential Floor Area per Dwelling Unit within this Zoning
District shall be as established herein below. The minimum square footage of
Floor Areas listed above shall be exclusive of Porch es, breezeways, utility
areas, storage areas, unheated areas, unfinished areas, Basements, and Attached
Garages.
      1)   Dwelling Type:
         a)    One Story : One thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet of
Floor Area above grade.
         b)    1 ½/Split Level/Bi-level/Walkout: One thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet of Floor Area with nine hundred (960) square feet on the
first floor above grade.
         c)    Two or more Stories : One thousand four hundred (1,400) square
feet of Floor Area with eight hundred (800) square feet on the first floor
above grade.
   B)   All Dwelling Units shall have a two (2) car Garage.
Section 804: District Standards
804.01   The provisions of Article
16, General Standards, shall apply to this Zoning District except as may
otherwise be modified within this document.
804.02   Landscaping Standards set forth in Article
20 shall only apply to Lots within this Zoning District containing Agricultural
Type Uses , Non-Residential Type Use s, and the following Residential Type Uses
: Community Center and Mobile Home Park .
804.03   Lighting:
   A)   Exterior lighting for parking facilities, Non-Residential Building s or
Structure s, Streets , public Swimming Pool s, and other similar types of
recreational amenities, as well as athletic fields, courts , and the like
(public or private), shall be installed in accordance with Article
21 of this Zoning Resolution.
   B)   Freestanding lighting fixtures and lanterns not otherwise regulated
herein shall be no taller than twenty-five (25) feet in Height , measured from
the base of the fixture, inclusive of any supporting or protective bases.
   C)   Lighting shall be permitted to have colors or shades that change, but
shall not be permitted to flash, change, move, and/or pulse in a rapid and
hazardous manner.
   D)   All other lighting or lighting characteristics within this District not
otherwise regulated herein shall be exempt from Article
21 (e.g., coach lights, chandeliers, uplighting, accent lighting, pathway
lighting, security lighting, and holiday décor).
804.04   Sign s shall be subject to the provisions within Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
804.05   Cluster Box Units (CBUs) shall be subject to the provisions within
Article
16, Section
1620 of this Zoning Resolution.
804.06   Swimming Pool s and Water Impoundments shall be subject to the
provisions within Section
1614 of this Zoning Resolution.
804.07   Waste, including debris, Junk , garbage, litter, refuse, and trash, as
well as compost and recyclables, shall be controlled and stored in containers.
Dumpsters, and other similar types of large waste containers that are typically
not moved by Manual means, and which are not considered to be a Portable
Storage Unit , shall not be permitted in a required Front Yard and shall be
enclosed and screened in accordance with Section
2004.
804.08   Outdoor Storage and Displays shall be regulated by Section
1610 of this Zoning Resolution.
804.09   Portable Storage Unit s shall be regulated by Section
2405 of this Zoning Resolution.
Section 805: Administration and Enforcement
805.01   Applications for Rezoning to the Suburban Residential District shall
be administered in accordance with Article
26.
805.02   Applications for Zoning Permit s and Certificates of Compliance shall
be administered in accordance with Section
115 as well as all other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
805.03   Applications for Variance s, Conditional Use s, and Administrative
Appeals shall be administered in accordance with Article
3.
805.04   A Zoning Permit shall be required for any subdivision of property
within the Suburban Residential District that requires the signature of the
Genoa Township Zoning Inspector.
805.05   Enforcement shall be conducted pursuant to Section
116 as well as all other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
805.06   Non-conforming Lot s, Use s, and Structure s shall be subject to
Article
25.
ARTICLE 9: Planned Residential District (PRD)
Section 901: Introduction
901.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   The Township recognizes that with increased suburbanization and
population growth come increased demands for well-organized residential areas
that take into account unique natural features, contemporary land use concepts,
and a balanced residential environment. The Planned Residential District is
intended to promote flexibility of land development for residential purposes
while still preserving and enhancing the public health, safety, morals, and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the Township.
   B)   It is the policy of the Township to permit the creation of a Planned
Residential District to:
      1)   Preserve and extend the charm and beauty existent in, and inherent
to, the rural residential character of Genoa Township;
      2)   Provide the economic and social advantages resulting from an orderly
planned use of large parcels of land;
      3)   Provide a more useful pattern of Open Space and recreation areas;
      4)   Promote development patterns, that preserve and utilize natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees, and other vegetation,
and prevent the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
      5)   Promote a more efficient use of land than is generally achieved
through conventional development, resulting in substantial savings in utility
and street extensions; and
      6)   Promote development patterns in harmony with land use Density ,
transportation facilities, and community facilities.
      7)   Provide housing and Use s that are generally consistent with the
characteristics typical of a primarily residential neighborhood.
      8)   Provide for consistency with the Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan .
901.02   This Article establishes standards for Planned Residential Districts
in areas served by central sanitary sewers and Central Water Systems, or
developments utilizing other sewage treatment options approved in the
development plan, subject to Article
1 of this Resolution. The foregoing shall not preclude any property not meeting
this standard but already within this District from being developed in
accordance with the terms of this Zoning Resolution.
Section 902: Contiguity of Land and Project Ownership
902.01   All land within a proposed Planned Development shall be Contiguous and
shall not be divided into parts by any state or federal limited access highway
or by any railroad Right-of-Way .
902.02   The Planned Development area shall be under contract for purchase by a
single entity or owned by a single entity at the time of application. For the
purpose of this subsection, a single entity includes, but is not limited to,
the following: a married couple; a corporation; a partnership; or two or more
property owners who have entered a general development plan for a Planned
Development .
Section 903: General Requirements
903.01   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all lands zoned in the
Planned Residential District (PRD). Only parcels of at least twenty-five (25)
acres in size or under application for Rezoning to PRD that collectively sum
twenty-five (25) acres or more within the same proposed Planned Development
shall be considered for Planned Residential District zoning (PRD).
   A)   Any Lot or Tract depicted on the Zoning Map as being wholly or
partially within the Hoover Reservoir Watershed shall also be subject to the
additional provisions established within Article
7 of this Zoning Resolution, the Hoover Watershed Overlay District (HOD).
Should these two articles conflict with one another, the requirements of
Article
7 shall apply unless otherwise expressly stated within this Resolution.
903.02   Unless otherwise permitted via a Divergence that has been reviewed and
approved in accordance with the standards set forth in Section
2707 of this Resolution, the Density of land use within a Planned Residential
District shall not exceed:
   A)   1.0 Dwelling s per Net Developable Acre when Conservation Development
Standards are not utilized.
   B)   1.25 Dwelling s per Net Developable Acre when Conservation Development
Standards are utilized.
903.03   Open Space areas shall be provided around the entire perimeter of a
Tract . Such areas shall count towards the Planned Development’s required Open
Space acreage.
   A)   The required widths of said area shall be:
      1)   Fifty (50) feet from any Lot within a Planned Residential Zoning
District .
      2)   One hundred (100) feet from any Lot located within a Residential or
Non-Residential Zoning District .
      3)   One hundred (100) feet from the Right-of-Way line of any Street that
is not classified as an Arterial or Collector Street .
      4)   One hundred seventy (170) feet from the Right-of-Way line of any
Arterial or Collector Street .
   B)   The perimeter of said area shall be planted with two (2) evergreen
trees and three (3) deciduous trees for every fifty (50) feet of site
perimeter.
      1)   Required plantings shall be planted in staggered rows or groupings
to create a natural-looking landscape buffer but shall still generally cover
the entire linear perimeter of the Tract .
      2)   Required plantings shall adhere to the size requirements found in
Section
2006.
      3)   In sections where existing woody vegetation, which is healthy,
mature, and abundant enough to serve as a visual screen, occurs along the
perimeter of the Tract , said vegetation may be credited towards the above
planting requirements.
   C)   No Building or Structure shall be permitted within said area unless
approved as part of the Planned Development’s Common Open Space as further
regulated in Sections
906 and
908 -
911.
   D)   No Limited Common Element Area shall be permitted within said area.
903.04   Critical Resource Protection
   A)   All Building s, Structure s, Street s, and Lot Lines shall be set back
at least twenty (20) feet from any Primary Conservation Area (s).
903.05   Access
   A)   All Planned Development s within this District shall have at least one
(1) direct vehicular access point to an Arterial or Collector Street .
   B)   Planned Development s consisting of more than thirty (30) Lots or
Building Envelopes shall have a second vehicular access point, at least six
hundred (600) feet apart from one another to a Street of any type, subject to
the approval of the Delaware County Engineer. Open Space  Lots and other
similar types of Lots not containing any Building s shall not count towards the
aforementioned standard.
      1)   Such access may be achieved by providing a vehicular connection to
an existing Street within an adjacent Planned Development with its own direct
vehicular access point. Drives restricted to emergency and/or maintenance
vehicles only shall not count towards this requirement.
903.06   Reserved.
903.07   Stormwater Management
   A)   Setback s.
      1)   All stormwater basins shall be set back a minimum of twenty (20)
feet from: Lot Lines , Structure s, designated Building Envelopes , and
designated Limited Common Element Areas.
      2)   The setback distance shall be measured landward from the maximum one
hundred (100) year stormwater surface elevation of the basin during a one
hundred (100) year storm.
   B)   Stormwater basins and pond perimeters shall be landscaped in accordance
with Section
2004.
   C)   All site plans must have a stormwater management plan, approved by the
Delaware County Engineer’s Office, with the improvements constructed before a
Zoning Permit will be issued for the construction of Building s.
   D)   Should any of the above contradict or conflict with the regulations of
any County, State, or Federal agency having jurisdiction over such matter, the
regulations of said agency shall supersede.
903.08   Parking and Loading Areas
   A)    Parking activities, including spaces, drive aisles, and loading areas,
shall comply with Article
19 unless otherwise specified.
   B)   All automobile parking lots shall be screened from adjoining streets
and adjoining residential properties in accordance with Articles
19 and
20.
   C)   No parking lot shall be closer than seventy-five (75) feet from the
edge of the Contiguous  Street  Right-of-Way in a Planned Residential District.
903.09   Streets
   A)   All Street drainage shall be enclosed.
   B)   Curbs and gutters shall be installed.
   C)   Minimum Street width shall be as required by the Delaware County
Engineer.
   D)   The minimum width of any landscape strip between the back of a curb and
a sidewalk or Multi-Use Path shall be at least six (6) feet. This width may be
reduced when necessary, without a Divergence , to accommodate street crossings,
accessibility, public services, utilities, and/or on-street parking.
   E)   All Streets , including private Streets , shall conform to all
applicable Delaware County specifications.
   F)   Any non-thru Street , not otherwise intended to serve as a future road
connection, shall terminate in a cul-de-sac designed in accordance with the
provisions of the Delaware County Engineer and the Genoa Township Fire
Department.
   G)   Common Access Driveways (CADs) shall not be permitted.
903.10   Sidewalks, Multi-Use Paths , and Trails
   A)   Sidewalks along Streets .
      1)   New Streets . Paved sidewalks and/or Multi-Use Paths shall be
provided along both sides of any new public or private Street .
      2)   Existing Streets . Paved sidewalks and/or Multi-Use Paths shall be
provided along any existing public or private Street within, abutting, or
adjacent to a Planned Development .
      3)   Whether a sidewalk or Multi-Use Path is installed shall be
determined by the context of the surrounding area. Consistence in the type
(sidewalk or Multi-Use Path ) with neighboring properties and/or with any paved
pedestrian network already established along the subject Street corridor shall
be maintained and continued whenever possible and logical to do so.
      4)   A Divergence shall be required to not install required sidewalks
and/or Multi-Use paths . For such a Divergence to be warranted, in addition to
the standards of Article
27, Section
2707, easements allowing for future construction and maintenance by the
Township, or its assignee, and public pedestrian access shall be provided in
lieu of the above.
         a)   The width of said easement shall be at least twenty (20) feet.
         b)   Easements shall be recorded prior to the issuance of any Zoning
Permit for Building s within the Planned Development .
   B)   Sidewalks shall be at least five (5) feet wide and constructed of
concrete or another similar type of surface.
   C)   Multi-Use Paths shall be at least ten (10) feet wide and constructed of
asphalt or another similar type of surface.
   D)   Trails, where provided, shall be at least four (4) feet wide and may be
paved or unpaved but must be visually delineated in some fashion.
903.11   Landscaping  
   A)    Landscaping  Standards set forth in Article
20 of this Resolution shall apply to the Planned Development  Tract . Said
standards shall also apply to all Lots  and Building s within the tract except
for those containing the following Use s: Manufactured Home , Mobile Home,
Residential Care Facility  (5 or less individuals), Row Dwelling , and Single-
Family Dwelling .
   B)   All yards, front, side, and rear shall be landscaped, and all
nonresidential Use areas shall be landscaped. Each platted Lot shall be seeded
or sodded in accordance with the approved development plan before a Certificate
of Zoning Compliance is issued.
   C)   Street Trees shall comply with Section
2005.
   D)   All required Landscaping in the Final Development Plan shall be
maintained. Dead and dying plants shall be replaced with a plant of a similar
type no later than the subsequent planting season.
Section 904: Use s
904.01   Permitted Use s without Conservation Development Standards. Within a
Planned Residential District, without the use of Conservation Development
Standards, the following Use s are permitted subject to the area, size, Density
, and other provisions set forth in this Resolution.
   A)   Permitted Principal Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses.
   B)   Permitted Accessory Uses shall be as established within Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses.
   C)   All Use s not specifically authorized as a permitted or conditionally
permitted Use by Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses or Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses, both located within Article
5 of this Zoning Resolution, are hereby prohibited.
904.02   Permitted Use s with Conservation Development Standards.
   A)   Permitted Principal Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses.
   B)   Permitted Accessory Uses shall be as established within Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses.
   C)   All Use s not specifically authorized as a permitted or conditionally
permitted Use by Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses or Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses, both located within Article
5 of this Zoning Resolution, are hereby prohibited.
904.03   Commercial or business Use of a Lot .
   A)   Any commercial, business, or similar Non-Residential Type Use on a Lot
in this District shall be prohibited unless otherwise specified within this
Resolution or operating as a lawful Home Occupation . This shall include, but
is not limited to, the parking of vehicles or equipment used in a business on a
residential Lot or the operation of a service-type business where no work takes
place on the site. An exception to the foregoing shall be made for any vehicle
owned by an individual who resides on the Lot in question and any Use permitted
within this Zoning District . No more than two (2) such vehicles may be
permitted.
   B)   Any rental or subletting of any component of, or amenity on, a Lot to
the general public for compensation shall be prohibited in this District.
Examples include Accessory Structures , fire pits, garages, gardens, patios,
recreational equipment , rooms, Swimming Pool s, treehouses, and yard space.
This prohibition shall not apply to any Use otherwise expressly permitted
elsewhere in, and in compliance with, this Resolution.
904.04   Except as specifically permitted by Article
22, no Telecommunications Tower as defined in ORC 519.211(B)(1), as may be
amended, shall be allowed in this District.
904.05   Agriculture , Agritourism , and Farm Market s not otherwise exempted
from zoning by the ORC , unless incorporated into an approved Planned
Development as either a permitted Use and/or designated Open Space . Such Use
and/or designation, where expressly authorized, shall be intended solely for
the operation, use, and enjoyment of residents within said Planned Development
and subject to Sections
2302,
2303, and
2304, respectively.
904.06   A Zoning Permit shall be obtained before any Use is initiated,
changed, or significantly altered in accordance with Section
115.02.
Section 905: Dimensional Requirements
905.01   Dimensional Requirements without Conservation Development Standards.
   A)   Minimum Lot Area :
      1)   Ten thousand (10,000) square feet or greater for any detached
Single-Family Dwelling situated on its own individual Lot .
      2)   The Building Envelope of Detached Dwelling s situated on land
commonly owned by a condominium or other similar type of association shall be
at least sixty (60) feet wide and one hundred twenty (120) feet deep.
      3)   Lots for any other type of Dwelling or Building shall be at least
thirty thousand (30,000) square feet in size.
      4)   Lots designated solely for the purpose of Governmental Facilities ,
Right-of-Way , designated Open Space preservation, Public Utilities , or
stormwater management shall be exempt from minimum Lot Area requirements. Such
designation shall be reflected in the Zoning Permit issued for the creation of
the Lot if one is required by this Resolution.
   B)   Minimum Yard  Setback requirements:
      1)   Front , Side , and Rear Yard  Setback s for detached Single-Family
Dwelling s on Lots ten thousand (10,000) square feet or greater shall be
designed so that no residential Dwelling is closer than twenty (20) feet to any
other residential Dwelling . Such Dwelling s shall be located no closer than
thirty (30) feet to any private Street or public Street  Right-of-Way .
      2)   Front , Side , and Rear Yard  Setback s for all other Dwelling s,
including those on land commonly owned by a condominium or other similar type
of association, shall be designed so that no residential Building is closer
than eleven (11) feet to any other residential Building . Such Dwelling s shall
be located no closer than twenty-five (25) feet to any private Street or public
Street  Right-of-Way .
      3)   Other permitted Principal Use s not otherwise specified above shall
have Front , Side , and Rear yards, each of which is at least forty (40) feet
from each respective Front, Side, and Rear Lot Line (s). No Building s
consisting of such Use shall be located closer than thirty (30) feet to any
private Street or public Street  Right-of-Way .
      4)   Yard requirements for architectural projections, Accessory Buildings
, and Accessory Structures shall be as established in Article
16.
      5)   Setback s from private Streets without defined easements or Right-
of-Ways shall be measured from the backside of the Street curb. If curbs are
not present, the measurement shall be taken from the Street’s edge of pavement.
   C)   Building or Structure Height limits: Unless otherwise permitted by this
Resolution, no Building or Structure shall exceed thirty-five (35) feet in
Height .
905.02   Dimensional Requirements with Conservation Development Standards.
   A)   Minimum Lot Area :
      1)   None required with the exception of Section
905.02.A.2 below; however, the Township may, as a part of the PRD, with
Conservation Development Standards review process, require specific dimensional
requirements that are in the best interests of the health, safety, and general
welfare of the Township.
      2)   The Building Envelope of Detached Dwelling s situated on land
commonly owned by a condominium or other similar type of association shall be
at least sixty (60) feet wide and one-hundred twenty (120) feet deep.
   B)   Minimum Yard  Setback requirements:
      1)   Residential, excluding Multi-Family Dwellings , none.
      2)   Other permitted Principal Use s, including Multi-Family Dwellings ,
shall have Front, Side, and Rear Yard  Setback s of fifty (50) feet each
respective Front, Side, and Rear Lot Line (s).
      3)   Yard  Setback requirements for architectural projections, Accessory
Buildings , and Accessory Structures shall be as established in Article
16.
      4)   Setback s from private Streets without defined easements or Right-
of-Ways shall be measured from the backside of the Street curb. If curbs are
not present, the measurement shall be taken from the Street’s edge of pavement.
   C)   Building or Structure Height limits: Unless otherwise permitted by this
Resolution, no Building or Structure shall exceed thirty-five (35) feet in
Height .
905.03   Dimension Requirements for all Developments.
   A)   Driveways:
      1)   All driveways or pavement shall have a Setback of no less than two
(2) feet from the Lot Line .
      2)   All sideload garages shall have a turning pad of no less than
twenty-four (24) feet.
      3)   No driveway shall be located so that it enters a Street within forty
(40) feet of the intersection of the edge of the Contiguous  Right-of-Way of
any two (2) Streets .
      4)   All driveways and parking areas shall be hard-surfaced with
asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete, permeable pavers, or another
similar type of hard, non-gravel surface.
905.04   Minimum Floor Area and Other Requirements for All Developments.
   A)   The minimum residential Floor Area per Dwelling Unit within this Zoning
District shall be as established herein below. The minimum square footage of
Floor Areas listed above shall be exclusive of Porch es, breezeways, utility
areas, storage areas, unheated areas, unfinished areas, Basements, and Attached
Garages.
      1)   Dwelling Type:
         a)    One Story : One thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet of
Floor Area above grade.
         b)    1 ½/Split Level/Bi-level/Walkout: One thousand two hundred
(1,200 square feet of Floor Area with nine hundred (960) square feet on the
first floor above grade.
         c)   Two or more Stories : One thousand four hundred (1,400) square
feet of Floor Area with eight hundred (800) square feet on the first floor
above grade.
   B)   All Dwelling Units shall have a two (2) car Garage.
905.05   Non-Residential Type Uses permitted within this Zoning District per
Article
5 herein shall comply with the following:
   A)   Such Use sl shall not comprise more than ten percent (10%) of the
Planned Development ’s Net Developable Acre (age). This calculation shall not
include any proposed Open Space areas. Building s, parking areas, driveways,
and any associated amenities serving, incidental to, or accessory to, such Use
shall count towards the specified maximum percentage.
   B)   No Non-Residential Type Use  Building shall exceed five thousand
(5,000) square feet in gross Floor Area .
Section 906: District Standards    
906.01   The provisions of Article
16, General Standards, shall apply to this Zoning District except as may
otherwise be modified within this document.
906.02   Non-Residential activities where permitted, excluding parking, shall
primarily be conducted within a completely enclosed Building or other
appropriate structural element(s) unless otherwise permitted herein.
   A)   Outdoor dining areas, Lounge areas, and the like shall be permitted in
conjunction with authorized Non-Residential Type Uses . Such areas shall adhere
to setback s for Non-Residential Type Uses established herein and subject to
Section
1610 of this Resolution.
   B)   Both Mechanical and Self-Service Vending shall be permitted outdoors.
Such areas, including storage bins and machines, shall be located adjacent to a
Building and subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
906.03   Lighting:
   A)   Exterior lighting for parking facilities, Non-Residential Building s or
Structure s, Streets , public Swimming Pool s, and other similar types of
recreational amenities, as well as athletic fields, courts , and the like
(public or private), shall be installed in accordance with Article
21 of this Zoning Resolution.
   B)   Freestanding lighting fixtures and lanterns not otherwise regulated
herein shall be no taller than twenty-five (25) feet in Height , measured from
the base of the fixture, inclusive of any supporting or protective bases.
   C)   Lighting shall be permitted to have colors or shades that change, but
shall not be permitted to flash, change, move, and/or pulse in a rapid and
hazardous manner.
   D)   All other lighting or lighting characteristics within this District not
otherwise regulated herein shall be exempt from Article
21 (e.g., coach lights, chandeliers, uplighting, accent lighting, pathway
lighting, security lighting, and holiday décor).
906.04   Sign s shall be subject to the provisions within Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
906.05   Cluster Box Units (CBUs) shall be subject to the provisions within
Article
16, Section
1620 of this Zoning Resolution.
906.06   Swimming Pool s and Water Impoundments shall be subject to the
provisions within Section
1614 of this Zoning Resolution.
906.07   Waste, including debris, Junk , garbage, litter, refuse, and trash, as
well as compost and recyclables, shall be controlled and stored in containers.
Dumpsters, and other similar types of large waste containers that are typically
not moved by Manual means, and which are not considered to be a Portable
Storage Unit , shall not be permitted in a required Front Yard and shall be
enclosed and screened in accordance with Section
2004.
906.08   Outdoor Storage and Displays shall be regulated by Section
1610 of this Zoning Resolution.
906.09   Portable Storage Unit s shall be regulated by Section
2405 of this Zoning Resolution.
Section 907: Open Spaces
907.01   At least forty percent (40%) of the gross acreage within a “PRD”
Planned Development shall be reserved as Open Space . In computing the amount
of gross acreage Open Space , Limited Common Element Areas, road  Rights-of-Way
of all types, and paved vehicular areas, including parking areas and driveways,
shall be excluded. It shall also not include the areas of individual fee simple
Lots conveyed to homeowners. The gross acreage Open Space area shall be open to
all residents of the Planned Development and may be, but is not required to be,
open to the general public.
907.02   The following items are a part of the computation of the gross acreage
Open Space : Scenic easements, utility easements, existing lakes or ponds, and/
or private and public active or passive Open Space , and including up to
twenty-five percent (25%) of land area included within bounded stanchions but
located between guy-wiring and stanchions Attached to a communications tower if
said guy-wires and stanchions are located so as to leave said percent open to
the sky. All land area located between guy-wiring and stanchions and included
in an Open Space computation shall be landscaped to screen the base of the
tower and all related Structure s and shall not be used for active or passive
recreation facilities of any kind.
Section 908: Common Open Space s
908.01   Common Open Space Requirements if Conservation Development Standards
Are Not Used:
   A)   A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the gross acreage within the
Planned Development shall be required to be Common Open Space and shall be
accessible to all tenants or residents within the zoning property but is not
required to be open to the general public.
   B)   The location, shape, size, and character of Common Open Space shall be
suitable for the Planned Development in relation to the location, number, and
types of Building s it is intended to serve. In any case, it shall be highly
accessible to all residents of the Planned Development . Entry Feature s,
detention and retention basins, and Limited Common Element Areas shall not be
included in the area required for Common Open Space.
   C)   The Common Open Space shall be used for amenity or recreational
purposes. Any Use s and/or Building s authorized for the Common Open Space must
be appropriate to the scale and character of the Planned Development in
relation to its size, Density , expected population, topography, and the type
of Dwelling s.
   D)   The Common Open Space may be suitably improved for its intended Use ,
but Common Open Space containing natural features worthy of preservation, such
as slopes over twelve percent (12%) and wooded areas, may be left unimproved.
The Building s, Structure s, and improvements that are permitted in the Common
Open Space must be appropriate to the Use s that are authorized for the Common
Open Space and must conserve and enhance the amenities of the Common Open Space
with regard to its topography and unimproved condition.
908.02   Common Open Space Requirements if Conservation Development Standards
Are Used:
   A)   Conservation Developments require that no less than fifty percent (50%)
of the total gross area of the area being developed be set aside as Common Open
Space . Open Space land may, at the discretion of the Township Trustees , be
dedicated as public parkland or public institutional use; or placed within
other protected land classification systems that will assure that such land
will remain in a natural state, prohibiting further development, and the
establishment of appropriate standards safeguarding the site’s special assets
as identified by the Zoning Commission .
   B)   The location, shape, size, and character of Common Open Space shall be
suitable for the Planned Development in relation to the location, number, and
types of Building s it is intended to serve. In any case, it shall be highly
accessible to all residents of the Planned Development . Entry Feature s,
detention and retention basins, and Limited Common Element Areas shall not be
included in the area required for Common Open Space.
   C)   The Common Open Space shall be used for amenity or recreational
purposes. Any Use s and/or Building s authorized for the Common Open Space must
be appropriate to the scale and character of the Planned Development in
relation to its size, Density , expected population, topography, and the type
of Dwelling s.
   D)   The Common Open Space may be suitably improved for its intended Use ,
but Common Open Space containing natural features worthy of preservation, such
as slopes over twelve percent (12%) and wooded areas, may be left unimproved.
The Building s, Structure s, and improvements, that are permitted in the Common
Open Space , must be appropriate to the Use s which are authorized for the
Common Open Space and must conserve and enhance the amenities of the Common
Open Space with regard to its topography and unimproved condition.
Section 909: Reserved
Section 910: Ownership of Common Open Space
910.01   Different ownership and management options apply to the permanently
protected Common Open Space created through the development process. The Common
Open Space shall remain undivided and may be owned and managed by a Homeowner’s
Association, the township, or a recognized land trust or conservation District
(conservancy). A public land dedication, not exceeding ten percent (10%) of the
total Lot Area , may be required by the Township Trustees to facilitate trail
or pathway connections. A narrative describing ownership, use, and maintenance
responsibilities shall be submitted for all common and public improvements,
utilities, and open spaces.
910.02   Ownership Standards. Common Open Space within the development shall be
owned, administered, and maintained by any of the following methods, either
individually or in combination.
   A)   The Township Trustees may, but are not required to, accept undivided
Common Open Space provided:
      1)   Such land is accessible to all the residents of the Township;
      2)   There is no cost of acquisition other than incidental costs related
to the transfer of ownership; and
      3)   The Township Trustees agree to maintain such lands.
   B)   Where the Township Trustees accept dedication of Common Open Space that
contains improvements, the Township Trustees may require the posting of
financial security to ensure structural integrity of improvements for a term
not to exceed eighteen (18) months. Dedication shall take the form of a fee
simple ownership to the Township.
910.03   Homeowner’s Association. The undivided Common Open Space and
associated facilities may be held in common ownership by a Homeowners
Association. The association shall be formed and operated under the following
provisions:
   A)   The developer shall provide a description of the association, including
its bylaws and methods for maintaining the Common Open Space .
   B)   The association shall be organized by the developer and shall be
operated by the developer, before the sale of any Lots within the development.
   C)   Membership in the association is mandatory for all purchasers of homes
therein and their successors. The conditions and timing of transferring control
of the association from the developer to homeowners shall be identified.
   D)   The association shall be responsible for the maintenance of insurance
and taxes on the undivided Common Open Space , enforceable by liens placed by
the Township Trustees on the association. The association may establish rules
to ensure proper maintenance of property, including monetary liens on the homes
and home sites of its members who fail to pay their association dues in a
timely manner. Such liens may impose a penalty of interest charges.
   E)   The members of the association shall share the costs of maintaining and
developing, where appropriate, such undivided Common Open Space equitably.
Shares shall be defined within the association bylaws.
   F)   In the event of a transfer, within the methods permitted, of undivided
Common Open Space land by the Homeowner’s Association, or the assumption of
maintenance of undivided Common Open Space land by the Township, notice of such
pending action shall be given to all property owners within the development.
   G)   The association shall provide adequate staff to administer common
facilities and property and continually maintain the undivided Common Open
Space .
   H)   The Homeowner’s Association may lease Common Open Space lands to any
other qualified person or corporation for the operation and maintenance of
Common Open Space lands, but such a lease agreement shall provide:
      1)   That the residents of the development shall always have access to
the Common Open Space lands contained therein (except croplands during the
growing season);
      2)   That the undivided Common Open Space shall be maintained for
purposes set forth in this Section; and
      3)   That the operation of Common Open Space facilities may be for the
benefit of the residents only or may be open to all residents of the township,
at the election of the developer and/or Homeowners Association. In cases where
public trails or paths are provided as connections between developments or as a
continuous link of Common Open Space within the township, all residents of the
township shall have access to such identified Pedestrianway s.
   I)   The lease shall be subject to the approval of the Homeowners
Association board, and any transfer or assignment of the lease shall be further
subject to the approval of the board. Lease agreements shall be recorded with
the Delaware County Recorder’s Office and notification shall be provided to the
Township Trustees within thirty (30) days of action by the Board.
910.04   Condominiums. The undivided Common Open Space and associated
facilities may be controlled by condominium agreements, approved by the
Township Trustees . Such agreements shall be in conformance with all applicable
laws and regulations. All undivided Common Open Space land shall be held as a
common element.
910.05   Dedication of Easements. The Township Trustees may, but shall not be
required to, accept easements for public use of any portion or portions of
undivided Common Open Space land, the title of which is to remain in ownership
by condominium or Homeowner’s Association, provided:
   A)   Such land is accessible to township residents;
   B)   There is no cost of acquisition other than incidental transfer of
ownership costs; and
   C)   A maintenance agreement is reached between the developer, association,
and the Township Trustees .
910.06   Transfer of Easements to a Private Conservation Organization. An owner
may transfer easements to a private, nonprofit organization, among whose
purposes it is to conserve open space and/or natural resources, provided that:
   A)   The organization is a bona fide conservation organization with
perpetual existence;
   B)   The conveyance contains appropriate provisions for the proper reverter
or retransfer should the organization become unwilling or unable to continue
carrying out its function; and
   C)   A maintenance agreement is entered into by the developer and the
organization.
Section 911: Maintenance of Open Space
911.01   The ultimate owner of the Open Space shall be responsible for raising
all monies required for operations, maintenance, or physical improvements to
the open space through annual dues and special assessments. The owner shall be
authorized under its bylaws to place liens on the property of residents who
fall delinquent in payment of such dues and assessments.
911.02   In the event that the organization established to own and maintain
Common Open Space shall at any time after establishment of the Planned
Development fail to maintain the Common Open Space in reasonable order and
condition in accordance with the Final Development Plan , the Township Trustees
may declare the property a Nuisance in accordance with Section
1611 of this Resolution and ORC 505.86 and/or 505.87, as may be amended.
Section 912: Administration and Enforcement
912.01   Pursuant to ORC 519.021(A), this District may be permitted upon
application and approval of specific and detailed Final Development Plans, and
all shall require amendments to the official Zoning Map . Approval for Planned
Development  Rezoning applications may be granted pursuant to ORC 519.12 only
when the plan for the project complies with these regulations, promotes the
general public health, safety, morals, and general welfare, encourages the
efficient use of land and resources, promotes greater efficiency in providing
public and utility services, and encourages innovation in the planning and
building of the development.
912.02   Applications and requests pertinent to the Planned Residential
District, including Zoning Map Amendment s, Preliminary Development Plan s,
Final Development Plans, Final Development Plan amendments, Divergences,
modifications/alterations, subdivisions, Zoning Permit s, and Certificates of
Compliance , shall be administered in accordance with Article
27 of this Resolution.
   A)   The following shall be eligible, but not required, to combine the
Zoning Map Amendment , Preliminary Development Plan , and Final Development
Plan into a single application contrary to the two-step process otherwise
required by Section
2701.01 of this Resolution:
      1)   Projects consisting of thirty (30) or fewer Single-Family Dwelling s
on a Lot or Tract of twenty-five (25) acres or less in size.
   B)   Projects eligible to be combined into a single application shall be
required to provide all submittal materials required by Sections
2703 and
2705 of this Resolution, minus any overlapping or redundant items.
   C)   Projects eligible to be combined into a single application shall follow
the procedures set forth in Section
2704 of this Resolution with the exception of Sections
2704.22.A and
2704.23, which, for the purposes of this Section only, shall be considered moot
and subsequently not applicable. Such applications shall still be subject to
referendum per Sections
2704.18 and
2704.19 of this Resolution.
   D)   Final Development Plans approved under a combined, single application
shall still be subject to Sections
2706.16 -
2706.20.
912.03   Enforcement shall be conducted pursuant to Section
2713.
912.04   Non-conforming Lot s, Use s, and Structure s shall be subject to
Article
25.
ARTICLE 10: Reserved
ARTICLE 11: Community Business District (CB)
Section 1101: Introduction
1101.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   The intent of the Community Business District is to create a Non-
Residential Zoning District that provides areas for business and service
establishments that are pleasant, safe, and convenient to the neighborhood
while still protecting public health, safety, and general welfare.
1101.02   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all lands zoned
Community Business District (CB) subject to Article
1 of this Resolution.
1101.03   The District is to be applied to areas currently served by central
sewer wastewater treatment plants operated by the Delaware County Sanitary
Engineer, as well as by central water and other Essential Services . The
foregoing shall not preclude any property not meeting this standard but already
within this District from being developed in accordance with the terms of this
Zoning Resolution.
1101.04   Any Lot depicted on the Zoning Map as being wholly or partially
within the Hoover Reservoir Watershed shall also be subject to the additional
provisions established within Article
7 of this Zoning Resolution, the Hoover Watershed Overlay District (HOD).
Should these two articles conflict with one another, the requirements of
Article
7 shall apply unless otherwise expressly stated within this Resolution.
Section 1102: Use s
1102.01   Permitted Principal Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses.
1102.02   Permitted Accessory Uses shall be as established within Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses.
1102.03   Permitted Conditional Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses and Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses. Authorized Conditional Use s shall
adhere to Article
3 of this Resolution and shall demonstrate compliance with any applicable
conditions established for said Use within Articles
17,
22,
23, and/or
24.
1102.04   All Use s not specifically authorized as a permitted or conditionally
permitted Use by Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses, Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses, or another applicable portion of this
Zoning Resolution, are hereby prohibited.
1102.05   A Zoning Permit shall be obtained before any Use is initiated,
changed, or significantly altered in accordance with Section
115.02.
Section 1103: Dimensional Requirements
1103.01   Minimum Lot Area : Twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   A)   Any portion of a Lot within a Common Access Driveway (CAD) easement(s)
or Street  Right-of-Way (existing or proposed) shall not count towards the
minimum Lot Area requirement.
   B)   Lots designated solely for the purpose of Governmental Facilities ,
Right-of-Way , designated Open Space preservation, Public Utilities , or
stormwater management shall be exempt from any Lot Area requirements. Such
designation shall be reflected in the Zoning Permit issued for the creation of
the Lot if one is required by this Resolution.
1103.02   Minimum Lot  Frontage : One hundred (100) feet, unless otherwise
specified below.
   A)   Corner Lots : One hundred (100) feet on one (1) Street .
   B)   Flag Lots : Eighty-five (85) feet. Stacking Flag Lots in a manner that
would result in the “pole” sections of two (2) or more Flag Lot s being
Contiguous to one another shall not be permitted.
   C)   Landlocked Lots : One hundred (100) feet.
   D)   Lots meeting the criteria set forth in Section
1103.01.B above shall be exempt from Frontage requirements.
1103.03   Landlocked Lots shall be accessed by a Common Access Driveway (CAD)
as regulated by Section
1604. This provision shall not be interpreted as a prohibition of Flag Lot s or
any other Lot design otherwise permitted in Section
1103.02.A - C.
1103.04   Lot Width :
   A)   All Lots shall be at least eighty-five (85) feet wide between its
required Frontage and the required Front Yard  Setback .
   B)   All Lots shall be one hundred (100) feet wide at the required Front
Yard  Setback .
   C)   Lots meeting the criteria set forth in Section
1103.01.B above shall be exempt from Lot Width requirements.
1103.05   Minimum Front Yard  Setback depth: Unless otherwise specified, One
hundred thirty (130) feet from any Front Lot Line adjacent to an Arterial or
Collector Street . One hundred (100) feet from Front Lot Lines adjacent to all
other Streets .
   A)   The Front Yard  Setback depth of a Flag Lot shall be fifty (50) feet,
measured from the point at which said Lot reaches one hundred (100) feet in
width.
1103.06   Minimum Side Yard  Setback width, each side: Twenty (20) feet from
any Side Lot Line (s).
1103.07   Minimum Rear Yard  Setback depth: Thirty-five (35) feet from any Rear
Lot Line .
1103.08   No Building shall be located closer than one hundred (100) feet from
a Residential or Planned Residential District boundary line;
1103.09   Building or Structure Height limits: Unless otherwise permitted by
this Resolution, no Building or Structure in this District shall exceed thirty-
five (35) feet in Height . No Aerial Antenna or tower shall be constructed to a
Height greater than the distance from the center of the base thereof to the
nearest Lot Line less ten (10) feet of said Tract .
1103.10   Lot Coverage : On no Lot in this Zoning District shall Structure s be
constructed that cover more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the Lot Area .
1103.11   Reserved.
1103.12   Maximum Gross Floor Area . The maximum square feet of Floor Area for
a Building on a single Lot shall be determined by the following ratio: Building
area in square feet = Lot Area in acres x (multiplied by) 10,000.
1103.13   Parking Areas.
   A)   Parking activities, including spaces, drive aisles, and loading areas,
shall comply with Article
19 unless otherwise specified.
   B)   No Off-Street Parking Lot or Parking Facility shall be closer than
twenty-five (25) feet from the edge of the Contiguous  Street  Right-of-Way
unless said lot/facility is Contiguous to a Residential or Planned Residential
Zoning District , in which case seventy-five (75) feet shall be the closest
permitted distance to the edge of the Contiguous  Right-of-Way .
   C)   Parking areas shall be set back from Side and Rear Lot Lines a minimum
of six (6) feet unless Contiguous to a Residential or Planned Residential
Zoning District , in which case the Setback shall be twenty (20) feet.
Section 1104: District Standards
1104.01   The provisions of Article
16, General Standards, shall apply to this Zoning District except as may
otherwise be modified within this document.
1104.02   All Streets , including private Streets , shall conform to the
requirements of Delaware County and the Genoa Township Fire Department. In
instances of conflict with this Resolution, the aforementioned agencies shall
prevail.
1104.03   All premises, including Pedestrianway s not otherwise functioning as
nature trails, shall be furnished with all-weather hard surface walks of a
material such as bituminous or Portland cement, concrete, wood, tile, terrazzo,
or similar material, and, except for parking areas, the grounds shall be
planted and landscaped.
1104.04   Buffers, Screening, and Landscaping shall be required pursuant to
Article
20.
   A)   All Yards, Off-Street Parking Lot locations and perimeters, and
stormwater basins shall be set back, buffered, screened, and landscaped in
accordance with Article
2003.
   B)   All Off-Street Parking Lot interiors, Building foundations, dumpsters,
and other similar types of waste containers, building Mechanical systems,
interior drive aisles, loading areas, Building service entrances, waste
enclosures, loading docks, and steep slopes shall be buffered, screened, and/or
landscaped in accordance with Article
2004.
   C)   All areas where Building s, parking areas, or Pedestrianway s are not
present shall be seeded or sodded with grass before a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance is issued.
1104.05   Stormwater Management – all developments shall have a stormwater
management plan approved by the Delaware County Engineer’s Office, if required.
1104.06   Activities, excluding parking, shall primarily be conducted within a
completely enclosed Building or other appropriate structural element(s) unless
otherwise permitted herein. This provision shall not apply to activities found
to be ancillary, customarily incidental, or inconsequential to the Use of the
subject property.
   A)   Outdoor dining areas, Lounge areas, and the like shall be permitted.
Such areas shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from any Lot Line and
subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
   B)   Both Mechanical and Self-Service Vending shall be permitted outdoors.
Such areas, including storage bins and machines, shall be located adjacent to a
Building and subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
1104.07   Noise Control:
   A)   Outdoor speakers playing low-level music/audio as well as on-site
exterior video displays, including Electronic Message Center  Sign s, shall not
emit any noise or sound that by reason of volume, pitch, frequency, intensity,
duration, or nature annoys or disturbs the comfort, peace, or health of a
person of ordinary sensibilities located within a Residential or Planned
Residential Zoning District under normal conditions by a reasonable person. Any
noise or sound prohibited by this Section must be plainly audible at a distance
of one hundred (100) feet or more from the property from the noise emanates to
become a prima facie violation of this Resolution.
   B)   Outdoor live entertainment, not otherwise qualifying as a Temporary Use
or permitted by this Resolution shall be prohibited.
1104.08   Unless otherwise permitted by this Resolution, no Building or
Structure shall be used for residential purposes except that a watchman or
custodian may reside on the premises.
1104.09   No emission of toxic or noxious matter, which is injurious to human
health, comfort, or enjoyment of life and property or to animal or plant life
shall be permitted. Where such emissions could be produced as a result of an
accident or equipment malfunction, adequate safeguards considered suitable for
safe operation in the business involved shall be taken.
1104.10   The emission of smoke or other air pollutants and dust borne by wind
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate Landscaping , paving, or other
acceptable means.
1104.11   There will be no emission of odors or odor-causing substances that
can be detected without the use of instruments at or beyond the Lot Lines .
1104.12   There will be no vibrations that can be detected without the use of
instruments at or beyond the Lot Lines .
1104.13   Outdoor Storage and Displays shall be regulated by Section
1610 of this Zoning Resolution with the following exceptions:
   A)   Unless otherwise authorized herein, Outdoor Storage of inoperable,
unlicensed or unused motor vehicles for a period exceeding seven (7) days shall
be prohibited.
   B)   Outdoor Storage and Display of merchandise on Pedestrianway s is
prohibited unless a five (5) foot wide strip is left for pedestrian traffic.
   C)   The storage, utilization, and manufacture of solid, liquid, and gaseous
chemicals and other materials shall be permitted, contrary to prohibitions
which may be found elsewhere in this Zoning Resolution, subject to the
following conditions:
      1)   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of solid materials or
products ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted,
but only if said materials or products are stored, utilized, or manufactured
within completely enclosed Building s having noncombustible exterior walls and
protected throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system.
      2)   All activities involving the use and/or storage and/or disposal of
flammable liquids or materials that produce flammable or explosive vapors or
gases shall be provided with adequate safety and protective devices against
hazards of fire and explosions, as well as with adequate firefighting and
suppression equipment and devices standard to the industry involved.
      3)   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of pyrophoric and explosive
powders and dusts, and of materials and products that decompose by detonation,
is prohibited.
      4)   The manufacture of flammable liquids or materials that produce
flammable or explosive vapors or gases is prohibited.
      5)   The storage and utilization of flammable liquids or materials that
produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases shall be permitted on any Lot in
strict conformance with the applicable regulations set forth in the “Ohio Rules
and Regulations of the Division of the State Fire Marshal for the Manufacture,
Storage, Handling, Sale, and Transportation of Flammable and Combustible
Liquids”.
   D)   The handling of radioactive materials, the discharge of such materials
into air and water, and the disposal of radioactive wastes shall be permitted,
contrary to prohibitions which may be found elsewhere in this Resolution, but
shall be done in strict conformance with:
      1)   The applicable regulations of any federal, state, and/or other
regulatory agency; and
      2)   The applicable regulations of any instrumentality of the State of
Ohio.
1104.14   Waste, including debris, Junk , litter, refuse, and trash, as well as
compost and recyclables, shall be controlled and stored in containers.
Dumpsters, and other similar types of large waste containers which are
typically not moved by Manual means, and which are not considered to be a
Portable Storage Unit , shall not be permitted in a required Front Yard and
shall be enclosed and screened in accordance with Section
2004.
1104.15   Exterior lighting shall comply with Article
21 of this Zoning Resolution.
1104.16   Sign s shall be subject to the provisions within Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
1104.17   Cluster Box Units (CBUs) shall be subject to the provisions within
Article
16, Section
1620 of this Zoning Resolution.
1104.18   Swimming Pool s and Water Impoundments shall be subject to the
provisions within Section
1614 of this Zoning Resolution.
1104.19   Portable Storage Unit s shall be regulated by Section
2405 of this Zoning Resolution.
Section 1105: Administration and Enforcement
1105.01   Applications for Rezoning to the Community Business District shall be
administered in accordance with Article
26.
1105.02   Applications for Zoning Permit s and Certificates of Compliance shall
be administered in accordance with Section
115 as well as all other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
1105.03   Applications for Variance s, Conditional Use s, and Administrative
Appeals shall be administered in accordance with Article
3.
1105.04   A Zoning Permit shall be required for any subdivision of property
within the Community Business District that requires the signature of the Genoa
Township Zoning Inspector.
1105.05   Enforcement shall be conducted pursuant to Section
116 as well as all other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
1105.06   Non-conforming Lot s, Use s, and Structure s shall be subject to
Article
25.
ARTICLE 12: Planned Commercial District (PCD)
Section 1201: Introduction
1201.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   This District is provided in recognition that a mixing of land uses
combined with increased densities allows a developer more flexibility in
development design and provides more convenience in the location of commercial
uses and business services, while still protecting public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare. Provisions of this Non-Residential Zoning District
are formulated to achieve harmoniously designed structures upon a well-
landscaped site, achieving a high degree of pedestrian vehicular separation,
all of which are intended to be compatible with surrounding land Use s.
   B)   It is the policy of the Township to permit the creation of Planned
Development Districts to:
      1)   Preserve and extend the charm and beauty existent in, and inherent
to, the rural residential character of Genoa Township;
      2)   Provide the economic and social advantages resulting from an
orderly, planned use of large parcels of land;
      3)   Provide a more useful pattern of Open Space and recreation areas;
      4)   Promote development patterns, that preserve and utilize natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees, and other vegetation,
and prevent the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
      5)   Promote a more efficient use of land than is generally achieved
through conventional development, resulting in substantial savings in utility
and street extensions; and
      6)   Promote development patterns in harmony with land use Density ,
transportation facilities, and community facilities.
1201.02   This Article establishes standards for the Planned Commercial
District served by central sanitary sewers and Central Water Systems, or
developments utilizing other sewage treatment options approved in the
development plan, subject to Article
1 of this Resolution.
1201.03   This District is limited to areas served by central sewer wastewater
treatment plants operated by the Delaware County Sanitary Engineer and to areas
served by a Central Water System and by an adequate transportation network. The
foregoing shall not preclude any property not meeting this standard but already
within this District from being developed in accordance with the terms of this
Zoning Resolution.
Section 1202: Contiguity of Land and Project Ownership
1202.01   All land within a proposed Planned Development shall be Contiguous
and shall not be divided into parts by any state or federal limited access
highway or by any railroad Right-of-Way .
1202.02   The Planned Development area shall be under contract for purchase by
a single entity or owned by a single entity at the time of application. For the
purposes of this subsection, a single entity includes the following: a married
couple; a corporation; a partnership; or two or more property owners who have
entered a general development plan for a Planned Development .
Section 1203: General Requirements
1203.01   The provisions herein shall apply to all lands zoned in the Planned
Commercial District (PCD). Only parcels of at least five (5) acres in size or
adjacent to other parcels zoned PCD or under application for Rezoning to PCD
that collectively sum five (5) acres or more within the same proposed Planned
Development shall be considered for PCD zoning.
   A)   Any Lot or Tract depicted on the Zoning Map as being wholly or
partially within the Hoover Reservoir Watershed shall also be subject to the
additional provisions established within Article
7 of this Zoning Resolution, the Hoover Watershed Overlay District (HOD).
Should these two articles conflict with one another, the requirements of
Article
7 shall apply unless otherwise expressly stated within this Resolution.
1203.02   Developments within this District shall be planned as groups having
common parking area(s) and common ingress and egress points to reduce the
number of potential accident locations at intersections with Thoroughfare s.
   A)   Planned Commercial Districts having less than twenty (20) acres in area
shall have direct access to at least one (1) Arterial Street .
   B)   Planned Commercial Districts of twenty (20) or more acres in area shall
have direct access to one (1) Arterial Street and one (1) Collector Street and/
or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street . The minimum required
separation distance of the latter shall be three hundred (300) feet between
access points, subject to the approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
1203.03   Where the Lot Lines separate a Planned Commercial District from a
Residential or Planned Residential District , a Non-Residential Buffer and
Development Setback in accordance with Section
2003 shall be provided.
1203.04   Reserved.
1203.05   Reserved.
1203.06   Total land occupancy by all Building s and Impervious Surfaces on a
Lot or Tract in this District shall not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of
the area of the said Lot or Tract provided, however, that underground parking
structures, the highest portions of which are not more than thirty (30) inches
above the level of the centerline of the nearest adjacent Street , shall not be
included in computations of land occupancy by Building s.
1203.07   One or more Building s or permitted Use s may be placed on a Lot /
Tract ; however, the maximum square feet of first-floor Building Area for all
Building s on a site shall be determined by the following ratio: Lot /Tract
Area in acres x (multiplied by) 10,000 sq. ft.
1203.08   Stormwater Management
   A)   Setback s.
      1)   All stormwater basins shall be set back a minimum of twenty (20)
feet from: Lot Lines , Structure s, designated Building Envelopes , and
designated Limited Common Element Areas.
      2)   The setback distance shall be measured landward from the maximum one
hundred (100) year stormwater surface elevation of the basin during a one
hundred (100) year storm.
   B)   Stormwater basins and pond perimeters shall be landscaped in accordance
with Section
2004.
   C)   All site plans must have a stormwater management plan, approved by the
Delaware County Engineer’s Office, with the improvements constructed before a
Zoning Permit will be issued for construction of Building s.
   D)   Should any of the above contradict or conflict with the regulations of
any County, State, or Federal agency having jurisdiction over such matter, the
regulations of said agency shall supersede.
1203.09   Parking and Loading Areas.
   A)   Parking activities, including spaces, drive aisles, and loading areas,
shall comply with Article
19 unless otherwise specified.
   B)   No parking lot shall be closer than twenty-five (25) feet from the edge
of the Contiguous  Street  Right-of-Way in a Planned Commercial District unless
the parking lot is Contiguous to a Residential or Planned Residential District
, in which case seventy-five (75) feet shall be the closest distance of the
parking lot to the edge of the Contiguous  Street  Right-of-Way .
   C)   Unless otherwise permitted within this Resolution, the parking of
passenger or commercial vehicles, including those for sale, shall be restricted
only to driveways, parking pads, and other similar impervious surface areas.
Placement of such within yards on landscaped or unimproved areas, such as dirt,
grass, and vegetation for a period greater than seventy-two (72) consecutive
hours during a thirty (30) day period, shall be prohibited. These provisions do
not apply to parking activities falling outside the scope and authority of
township zoning, including parking on or along Streets .
1203.10   Streets – All Streets , including private Streets , shall conform to
specifications as set forth in the Delaware County Subdivision Regulations.
Public road improvements in Planned Development s shall require the following:
   A)   All Street drainage shall be enclosed;
   B)   Curbs and gutters shall be installed; and
   C)   Minimum Street width shall be as required by the Delaware County
Engineer.
1203.11   Sidewalks, Multi-Use Paths , and Trails.
   A)   Sidewalks along Streets .
      1)   New Streets . Paved sidewalks and/or Multi-Use Paths shall be
provided along both sides of any new public or private Street .
      2)   Existing Streets . Paved sidewalks and/or Multi-Use Paths shall be
provided along any existing public or private Street within, abutting, or
adjacent to a Planned Development .
      3)   Whether a sidewalk or Multi-Use Path is installed shall be
determined by the context of the surrounding area. Consistence in the type
(sidewalk or Multi-Use Path ) with neighboring properties and/or with any paved
pedestrian network already established along the subject Street corridor shall
be maintained and continued whenever possible and logical to do so.
      4)   A Divergence shall be required to not install required sidewalks
and/or Multi-Use paths . For such a Divergence to be warranted, in addition to
the standards of Article
27, Section
2707, easements allowing for future construction and maintenance by the
Township, or its assignee, and public pedestrian access shall be provided in
lieu of the above.
         a)   The width of said easement shall be at least twenty (20) feet.
         b)   Easements shall be recorded prior to the issuance of any Zoning
Permit for Building s within the Planned Development .
   B)   Sidewalks shall be at least five (5) feet wide and constructed of
concrete or another similar type of surface.
   C)   Multi-Use Paths shall be at least ten (10) feet wide and constructed of
asphalt or another similar type of surface.
   D)   Trails, where provided, shall be at least four (4) feet wide and may be
paved or unpaved but must be visually delineated in some fashion.
Section 1204: Use s
1204.01   Permitted Principal Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses.
1204.02   Permitted Accessory Uses shall be as established within Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses.
1204.03   All Use s not specifically authorized as a permitted or conditionally
permitted Use by Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses or Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses, are hereby prohibited.
1204.04   Unless otherwise permitted in this Resolution, no Building or
Structure shall be used for residential purposes except that a watchman or
custodian may reside on the premises.
1204.05   A Zoning Permit shall be obtained before any Use is initiated,
changed, or significantly altered in accordance with Section
115.02.
Section 1205: Dimensional Requirements
1205.01   Minimum Yard requirements: Front, Side, and Rear Yards shall be
designed so that no Building is closer than fifty (50) feet to any other
Building on the same Lot or Tract .
1205.02   No Building s shall be located closer than one hundred (100) feet to
any District boundary line or one hundred (100) feet from a Street  Right-of-
Way (existing or proposed).
1205.03   Building or Structure Height limits: Unless otherwise permitted in
Section
1616, no Building or Structure in this District shall exceed thirty-five (35)
feet in Height .
   A)   No Aerial Antenna or tower shall be constructed to a Height greater
than the distance from the center of the base thereof to the nearest property
line, less ten (10) feet of said Tract .
1205.04   Lots designated solely for the purpose of Governmental Facilities ,
Right-of-Way , designated Open Space preservation, Public Utilities , or
stormwater management shall be exempt from minimum Lot Area requirements. Such
designation shall be reflected in the Zoning Permit issued for the creation of
the Lot if one is required by this Resolution.
Section 1206: District Standards
1206.01   The provisions of Article
16, General Standards, shall apply to this Zoning District except as may
otherwise be modified within this document.
1206.02   Activities, excluding parking, shall primarily be conducted within a
completely enclosed Building or other appropriate structural element(s) unless
otherwise permitted herein. This provision shall not apply to activities found
to be ancillary, customarily incidental, or inconsequential to the Use of the
subject property.
   A)   Outdoor dining areas, Lounge areas, and the like shall be permitted.
Such areas shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from any Lot Line and
subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
   B)   Both Mechanical and Self-Service Vending shall be permitted outdoors.
Such areas, including storage bins and machines, shall be located adjacent to a
Building and subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
1206.03   All premises, including Pedestrianway s not otherwise functioning as
nature trails, shall be furnished with all-weather hard surface walks of a
material such as bituminous or Portland cement, concrete, wood, tile, terrazzo,
or similar material, and, except for parking areas, the grounds shall be
planted and landscaped.
1206.04   Buffers, Screening, and Landscaping shall be required pursuant to
Article
20.
   A)   All Yards, Off-Street Parking Lot locations and perimeters, and
stormwater basins shall be set back, buffered, screened, and landscaped in
accordance with Article
2003.
   B)   All Off-Street Parking Lot interiors, Building foundations, dumpsters,
and other similar types of waste containers, building Mechanical systems,
interior drive aisles, loading areas, Building service entrances, waste
enclosures, loading docks, and steep slopes shall be buffered, screened, and/or
landscaped in accordance with Article
2004.
   C)   All areas where Building s, parking areas, or Pedestrianway s are not
present shall be seeded or sodded with grass before a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance is issued.
1206.05   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1206.06   Exterior lighting shall be installed in accordance with Article
21 of this Zoning Resolution.
1206.07   Sign s shall be subject to the provisions within Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
1206.08   Cluster Box Units (CBUs) shall be subject to the provisions within
Article
16, Section
1620 of this Zoning Resolution.
1206.09   Swimming Pool s and Water Impoundments shall be subject to the
provisions within Section
1614 of this Zoning Resolution.
1206.10   Noise Control:
   A)   Outdoor speakers playing low-level music/audio as well as on-site
exterior video displays, including Electronic Message Center  Sign s, shall not
emit any noise or sound that by reason of volume, pitch, frequency, intensity,
duration, or nature annoys or disturbs the comfort, peace, or health of a
person of ordinary sensibilities located within a Residential or Planned
Residential Zoning District under normal conditions by a reasonable person. Any
noise or sound prohibited by this Section must be plainly audible at a distance
of one hundred (100) feet or more from the property from the noise emanates to
become a prima facie violation of this Resolution.
1206.11   Waste, including debris, Junk , litter, refuse, and trash, as well as
compost and recyclables, shall be controlled and stored in containers.
Dumpsters, and other similar types of large waste containers which are
typically not moved by Manual means, and which are not considered to be a
Portable Storage Unit , shall not be permitted in a required Front Yard and
shall be enclosed and screened in accordance with Section
2004.
1206.12   Outdoor Storage and Displays shall be regulated by Section
1610 of this Zoning Resolution with the following exceptions:
   A)   Unless otherwise authorized herein, Outdoor Storage of inoperable,
unlicensed or unused motor vehicles for a period exceeding seven (7) days shall
be prohibited.
   B)   Outdoor Storage and Display of merchandise on Pedestrianway s is
prohibited unless a five (5) foot-wide strip is left for pedestrian traffic.
1206.13   Portable Storage Unit s shall be regulated by Section
2405 of this Zoning Resolution.
1206.14   No emission of toxic or noxious matter, which is injurious to human
health, comfort or enjoyment of life and property or to animal or plant life
shall be permitted. Where such emissions could be produced as a result of
accident or equipment malfunction, adequate safeguards considered suitable for
safe operation in the business involved shall be taken.
1206.15   The emission of smoke or other air pollutants and dust borne by wind
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate Landscaping , paving, or other
acceptable means.
1206.16   There will be no emission of odors or odor-causing substances that
can be detected without the use of instruments at or beyond the Lot Lines .
1206.17   There will be no vibrations that can be detected without the use of
instruments at or beyond the Lot Lines .
Section 1207: Administration and Enforcement
1207.01   Pursuant to ORC 519.021(A), this District may be permitted upon
application and approval of specific and detailed Final Development Plans, and
all shall require amendments to the official Zoning Map . Approval for Planned
Development  Rezoning applications may be granted pursuant to ORC 519.12 only
when the plan for the project complies with these regulations and promotes the
general public health, safety, morals, and general welfare and encourages the
efficient use of land and resources, promotes greater efficiency in providing
public and utility services, and encourages innovation in the planning and
building of the development.
1207.02   Applications and requests pertinent to the Planned Commercial
District, including Zoning Map Amendment s, Preliminary Development Plan s,
Final Development Plans, Final Development Plan amendments, Divergences,
modifications/alterations, subdivisions, Zoning Permit s, and Certificates of
Compliance , shall be administered in accordance with Article
27.
   A)   The following shall be eligible, but not required, to combine the
Zoning Map Amendment , Preliminary Development Plan , and Final Development
Plan into a single application contra to the two-step process otherwise
required by Section
2701.01 of this Resolution:
      1)   Projects consisting of one (1) Principal Building totaling no more
than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in size on a Lot or Tract three (3) or
less acres in size.
   B)   Projects eligible to be combined into a single application shall be
required to provide all submittal materials required by Sections
2703 and
2705 of this Resolution, minus any overlapping or redundant items.
   C)   Projects eligible to be combined into a single application shall follow
the procedures set forth in Section
2704 of this Resolution except for Sections
2704.22.A and
2704.23, which, for the purposes of this Section only, shall be considered moot
and subsequently not applicable. Such applications shall still be subject to
referendum per Sections
2704.18 and
2704.19 of this Resolution.
   D)   Final Development Plans approved under a combined, single application
shall still be subject to Sections
2706.16 -
2706.20.
1207.03   Enforcement shall be conducted pursuant to Section
2713.
1207.04   Non-conforming Lot s, Use s, and Structure s shall be subject to
Article
25.
ARTICLE 13: Planned Industrial District (PID)
Section 1301: Introduction
1301.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   The purpose of the Planned Industrial District is to encourage the
coordination and integration of industrial uses designed as separate elements
into one specific site layout while protecting public health, safety, morals,
and general welfare. The entire design is intended to utilize industrial uses
that are compatible in terms of activity, parking needs, traffic accessibility,
sign systems, and space requirements in an industrial park setting.
   B)   It is the policy of the Township to permit the creation of Planned
Development Districts to:
      1)   Preserve and extend the charm and beauty existent in, and inherent
to, the rural residential character of Genoa Township;
      2)   Provide the economic and social advantages resulting from an orderly
planned use of large parcels of land;
      3)   Provide a more useful pattern of Open Space and recreation areas;
      4)   Promote development patterns, that preserve and utilize natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees, and other vegetation,
and prevent the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
      5)   Promote a more efficient use of land than is generally achieved
through conventional development, resulting in substantial savings in utility
and street extensions; and
      6)   Promote development patterns in harmony with land use Density ,
transportation facilities, and community facilities.
1301.02   This Article establishes standards for the Planned Industrial
District in areas served by central sanitary sewers and Central Water Systems,
or developments utilizing other sewage treatment options approved in the
development plan, subject to Article
1 of this Resolution.
1301.03   Planned Industrial Districts are limited to areas served by central
sewer wastewater treatment plants operated by the Delaware County Sanitary
Engineer, as well as to areas served by a Central Water System and an adequate
transportation network. The foregoing shall not preclude any property not
meeting this standard but already within this District from being developed in
accordance with the terms of this Zoning Resolution.
Section 1302: Contiguity of Land and Project Ownership
1302.01   All land within a proposed Planned Development shall be Contiguous
and shall not be divided into parts by any state or federal limited access
highway or by any railroad Right-of-Way .
1302.02   The Planned Development area shall be under contract for purchase by
a single entity or owned by a single entity at the time of application. For the
purposes of this subsection, a single entity includes the following: a married
couple; a corporation; a partnership; or two or more property owners who have
entered a general development plan for a Planned Development .
Section 1303: General Requirements
1303.01   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all lands zoned in the
Planned Industrial District (PID). Only parcels at least ten (10) acres in size
or adjacent to other parcels zoned PID or under application for Rezoning to PID
that collectively sum ten (10) acres or more within the same proposed Planned
Development shall be considered for the PID.
   A)   Any Lot or Tract depicted on the Zoning Map as being wholly or
partially within the Hoover Reservoir Watershed shall also be subject to the
additional provisions established within Article
7 of this Zoning Resolution, the Hoover Watershed Overlay District (HOD).
Should these two articles conflict with one another, the requirements of
Article
7 shall apply unless otherwise expressly stated within this Resolution.
1303.02   Developments within this District shall be planned as groups having
common parking area(s) and common ingress and egress points to reduce the
number of potential accident locations at intersections with Thoroughfare s.
   A)   Planned Industrial Districts less than twenty (20) acres in area shall
have direct access to one (1) Arterial Street .
   B)   Planned Industrial Districts of twenty (20) or more acres in area shall
have direct access to one (1) Arterial Street and to one (1) Collector Street
and/or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street . The minimum required
separation distance of the latter shall be three hundred (300) feet between
access points, subject to the approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
1303.03   Where the Lot Lines separate a Planned Industrial District from a
Residential or Planned Residential District , a Non-Residential Buffer and
Development Setback in accordance with Section
2003 shall be provided.
1303.04   Reserved.
1303.05   Reserved.
1303.06   Total land occupancy by all Building s and Impervious Surfaces on a
single Lot or Tract in this District shall not exceed seventy-five percent
(75%) of the area of said Lot or Tract provided, however, that underground
parking structures, the highest portions of which are not more than thirty (30)
inches above the level of the centerline of the nearest adjacent Street , shall
not be included in the computations of land occupancy by Building s.
1303.07   One or more Building s or permitted Use s may be placed on a Lot /
Tract , however, the maximum square feet of first-floor Building Area for all
Building s on a site shall be determined by the following ratio: Lot /Tract
Area in acres x (multiplied by) 14,500 sq. ft.
1303.08   Stormwater Management
   A)   Setback s.
      1)   All stormwater basins shall be set back a minimum of twenty (20)
feet from: Lot Lines , Structure s, designated Building Envelopes , and
designated Limited Common Element Areas.
      2)   The setback distance shall be measured landward from the maximum one
hundred (100) year stormwater surface elevation of the basin during a one
hundred (100) year storm.
   B)   Stormwater basins and pond perimeters shall be landscaped in accordance
with Section
2004.
   C)   All site plans must have a stormwater management plan, approved by the
Delaware County Engineer’s Office, with the improvements constructed before a
Zoning Permit will be issued for construction of Building s.
   D)   Should any of the above contradict or conflict with the regulations of
any County, State, or Federal agency having jurisdiction over such matter, the
regulations of said agency shall supersede.
1303.09   Parking and Loading Areas.
   A)   Parking activities, including spaces, drive aisles, and loading areas,
shall comply with Article
19 unless otherwise specified.
   B)   No parking lot shall be closer than twenty-five (25) feet from the edge
of the Contiguous  Street  Right-of-Way in a Planned Industrial District unless
the parking lot is Contiguous to a Residential or Planned Residential District
, in which case seventy-five (75) feet shall be the closest distance of the
parking lot to the edge of the Contiguous  Street  Right-of-Way .
1303.10   Streets – All Streets including private streets shall conform to
specifications as set forth in the Delaware County Subdivision Regulations.
Public road improvements in Planned Development s shall require the following:
   A)   All Street drainage shall be enclosed;
   B)   Curbs and gutters shall be installed; and
   C)   Minimum Street width shall be as required by the Delaware County
Engineer.
1303.11   Sidewalks, Multi-Use Paths , and Trails.
   A)   Sidewalks along Streets .
      1)   New Streets . Paved sidewalks and/or Multi-Use Paths shall be
provided along both sides of any new public or private Street .
      2)   Existing Streets . Paved sidewalks and/or Multi-Use Paths shall be
provided along any existing public or private Street within, abutting, or
adjacent to a Planned Development .
      3)   Whether a sidewalk or Multi-Use Path is installed shall be
determined by the context of the surrounding area. Consistence in the type
(sidewalk or Multi-Use Path ) with neighboring properties and/or with any paved
pedestrian network already established along the subject Street corridor shall
be maintained and continued whenever possible and logical to do so.
      4)   A Divergence shall be required to not install required sidewalks
and/or Multi-Use Paths . For such a Divergence to be warranted, in addition to
the standards of Article
27, Section
2707, easements allowing for future construction and maintenance by the
Township, or its assignee, and public pedestrian access shall be provided in
lieu of the above.
         a)   The width of said easement shall be at least twenty (20) feet.
         b)   Easements shall be recorded prior to the issuance of any Zoning
Permit for Building s within the Planned Development .
   B)   Sidewalks shall be at least five (5) feet wide and constructed of
concrete or another similar type of surface.
   C)   Multi-Use Paths shall be at least ten (10) feet wide and constructed of
asphalt or another similar type of surface.
   D)   Trails, where provided, shall be at least four (4) feet wide and may be
paved or unpaved but must be visually delineated in some fashion.
Section 1304: Use s
1304.01   Permitted Principal Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses.
1304.02   Permitted Accessory Uses shall be as established within Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses.
1304.03   All Use s not specifically authorized as a permitted or conditionally
permitted Use by Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses or Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses, both located within Article of this
Zoning Resolution are hereby prohibited.
1304.04   Unless otherwise permitted in this Resolution, no Building or
Structure shall be used for residential purposes except that a watchman or
custodian may reside on the premises.
1304.05   A Zoning Permit shall be obtained before any Use is initiated,
changed, or significantly altered in accordance with Section
115.02.
Section 1305: Dimensional Requirements
1305.01   Minimum Yard requirements: Front, Side, and Rear Yards shall be
designed so that no Building is closer than fifty (50) feet to any other
Building on the same Lot or Tract .
1305.02   No Building s shall be located closer than one hundred (100) feet to
any District boundary line or one hundred (100) feet from the edge of the
Contiguous  Street  Right-of-Way of the subject Lot or Tract .
1305.03   Building or Structure Height limits: Unless otherwise permitted in
Section
1616, no Building or Structure in this District shall exceed thirty-five (35)
feet in Height .
   A)   No Aerial Antenna or tower shall be constructed to a Height greater
than the distance from the center of the base thereof to the nearest Lot Line ,
less ten (10) feet of said Tract .
1305.04   Lots designated solely for the purpose of Governmental Facilities ,
Right-of-Way , designated Open Space preservation, Public Utilities , or
stormwater management shall be exempt from minimum Lot Area requirements. Such
designation shall be reflected in the Zoning Permit issued for the creation of
the Lot if one is required by this Resolution.
Section 1306: District Standards
1306.01   The provisions of Article
16, General Standards, shall apply to this Zoning District except as may
otherwise be modified within this document.
1306.02   Activities, excluding parking, shall primarily be conducted within a
completely enclosed Building or other appropriate structural element(s) unless
otherwise permitted herein. This provision shall not apply to activities found
to be ancillary, customarily incidental, or inconsequential to the Use of the
subject property.
   A)   Outdoor dining areas, Lounge areas, and the like shall be permitted.
Such areas shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from any Lot Line and
subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
   B)   Both Mechanical and Self-Service Vending shall be permitted outdoors.
Such areas, including storage bins and machines, shall be located adjacent to a
Building and subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
1306.03   All premises, including Pedestrianway s not otherwise functioning as
nature trails, shall be furnished with all-weather hard surface walks of a
material such as bituminous or Portland cement concrete, wood, tile, terrazzo,
or similar material, and except for parking areas, the grounds shall be planted
and landscaped.
1306.04   Buffers, Screening, and Landscaping shall be required pursuant to
Article
20.
   A)   All Yards, Off-Street Parking Lots and associated perimeters, and
stormwater basins shall be set back, buffered, screened, and landscaped in
accordance with Article
2003.
   B)   All Off-Street Parking Lot interiors, Building foundations, dumpsters,
and other similar types of waste containers, building Mechanical systems,
interior drive aisles, loading areas, Building service entrances, waste
enclosures, loading docks, and steep slopes shall be buffered, screened, and/or
landscaped in accordance with Article
2004.
   C)   All areas where Building , parking areas, or Pedestrianway s are not
present shall be seeded or sodded with grass before a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance is issued.
1306.05   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1306.06   Exterior lighting shall be designed and installed in accordance with
Article
21
1306.07   Sign s shall be subject to the provisions within Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
1307.08   Cluster Box Units (CBUs) shall be subject to the provisions within
Article
16, Section
1620 of this Zoning Resolution.
1306.09   Swimming Pool s and Water Impoundments shall be subject to the
provisions within Section
1614 of this Zoning Resolution.
1306.10   Noise Control:
   A)   Outdoor speakers playing low-level music/audio as well as on-site
exterior video displays, including Electronic Message Center  Sign s, shall not
emit any noise or sound that by reason of volume, pitch, frequency, intensity,
duration, or nature annoys or disturbs the comfort, peace, or health of a
person of ordinary sensibilities located within a Residential or Planned
Residential Zoning District under normal conditions by a reasonable person. Any
noise or sound prohibited by this Section must be plainly audible at a distance
of one hundred (100) feet or more from the property from the noise emanates to
become a prima facie violation of this Resolution.
1306.11   Waste, including debris, Junk , litter, refuse, and trash, as well as
compost and recyclables, shall be controlled and stored in containers.
Dumpsters and other similar types of large waste containers, which are
typically not moved by Manual means, and which are not considered to be a
Portable Storage Unit , shall not be permitted in a required Front Yard and
shall be enclosed and screened in accordance with Section
2004.
1306.12   Outdoor Storage and Displays shall be regulated by Section
1610 of this Zoning Resolution with the following exceptions:
   A)   Unless otherwise authorized herein, Outdoor Storage of inoperable,
unlicensed, or unused motor vehicles for a period exceeding seven (7) days
shall be prohibited.
   B)   Outdoor Storage and Display of merchandise on Pedestrianway s is
prohibited unless a five (5) foot wide strip is left for pedestrian traffic.
1306.13   Portable Storage Unit s shall be regulated by Section
2405 of this Zoning Resolution.
1306.14   No emission of toxic or noxious matter, which is injurious to human
health, comfort, or enjoyment of life and property or to animal or plant life,
shall be permitted. Where such emissions could be produced as a result of an
accident or equipment malfunction, adequate safeguards considered suitable for
safe operation in the industry involved shall be taken.
1306.15   The emission of smoke or other air pollutants and dust borne by the
wind shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate Landscaping , paving, or other
acceptable means.
1306.16   There will be no emission of odors or odor-causing substances that
can be detected without the use of instruments at or beyond the Lot Lines .
1306.17   There will be no vibrations that can be detected without the use of
instruments at or beyond the Lot Lines .
1306.18   The storage, utilization, and manufacture of solid, liquid, and
gaseous chemicals and other materials shall be permitted subject to the
following conditions:
   A)   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of solid materials or products
ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted, but only
if said materials or products are stored, utilized, or manufactured within
completely enclosed Building s having noncombustible exterior walls and
protected throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system.
   B)   All activities involving the use and/or storage and/or disposal of
flammable liquids or materials that produce flammable or explosive vapors or
gases shall be provided with adequate safety and protective devices against
hazards of fire and explosions, as well as adequate firefighting and
suppression equipment and devices standard to the industry involved.
   C)   The storage, utilization or manufacture of pyrophoric and explosive
powders and dusts, and of materials and products that decompose by detonation
is prohibited.
   D)   The manufacture of flammable liquids or materials that produce
flammable or explosive vapors or gases is prohibited.
   E)   The storage and utilization of flammable liquids or materials that
produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases shall be permitted on any Lot in
strict conformance with the applicable regulations set forth in the “Ohio Rules
and Regulations of the Division of the State Fire Marshal for the Manufacture,
Storage, Handling, Sale and Transportation of Flammable and Combustible
Liquids.”
1306.19   The handling of radioactive materials, the discharge of such
materials into air and water, and the disposal of radioactive wastes shall be
in strict conformance with:
   A)   The applicable regulations of any federal, state, and/or other
regulatory agency; and
   B)   The applicable regulations of any instrumentality of the State of Ohio.
Failure to comply with any of the Required Conditions by property owners or
users will be considered a zoning violation appropriate for prosecution under
the terms of this Resolution.
Section 1307: Administration and Enforcement
1307.01   Pursuant to ORC 519.021(C), this District will encompass, include,
and overlay all lands contained within the Light Industrial District (LI) and
may be permitted upon application and approval of specific and detailed Final
Development Plans. As such, contrary to Section
2701.01, anyone wishing to utilize this District for a Planned Development on
an existing LI zoned Lot or Tract needs only to follow a one-step zoning review
process. The LI District and the zoning regulations thereunder shall continue
to apply to all property within the PID unless the Township Trustees , pursuant
to Article
27, approve an application of an owner of property within the LI District to
subject the owner’s property to the provisions of the PID. Such an application
shall be made in accordance with the provisions in Section
2705 and shall include a development plan in compliance with this Resolution.
Such an application shall be reviewed and administered in accordance with
Sections
2706 and
2707. If the Township Trustees determine that the application and development
plan comply and subsequently approve- the application, the Township Trustees
shall cause the Zoning Map to be changed so that the LI District no longer
applies to such property, with the property being thenceforth located in the
PID and subject to the regulations thereunder. The approval of the application
and development plan and the removal of the prior LI District from the Zoning
Map is a ministerial act and shall not be considered an amendment to the Genoa
Township Zoning Resolution.
1307.02   Applications and requests pertinent to the Planned Industrial
District, including Zoning Map Amendment s, Preliminary Development Plan s,
Final Development Plans, Final Development Plan amendments, Divergences,
subdivisions, Zoning Permit s, and Certificates of Compliance , shall be
administered in accordance with Article
27.
1307.03   Enforcement shall be conducted pursuant to Section
2713.
1307.04   Non-conforming Lot s, Use s, and Structure s shall be subject to
Article
25.
ARTICLE 14: Planned Community Facilities District (PCF)
Section 1401: Introduction
1401.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   The purpose of the Planned Community Facilities District is to provide
zoning classification for governmental, civic, recreational, and similar
community facilities in a proper location and extent to promote public health,
safety, morals, and general welfare. The Planned Community Facilities District
encourages the use of existing facilities and regulates the location of new
facilities to ensure their proper functioning in consideration of traffic,
access, and general compatibility and to minimize the adverse visual effects on
surrounding areas through design and Landscaping standards. The District is
designed to protect community facilities and institutions from the encroachment
of certain other Use s and to make sure Use s are compatible with adjoining
residential Use s.
   B)   It is the policy of the Township to permit the creation of the Planned
Community Facilities District to:
      1)   Preserve and extend the charm and beauty existent in, and inherent
to, the rural residential character of Genoa Township;
      2)   Provide the economic and social advantages resulting from an orderly
planned use of large parcels of land;
      3)   Provide a more useful pattern of Open Space and recreation areas;
      4)   Promote development patterns, that preserve and utilize natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees, and other vegetation,
and prevent the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
      5)   Promote a more efficient use of land than is generally achieved
through conventional development, resulting in substantial savings in utility
and street extensions; and
      6)   Promote development patterns in harmony with land use Density ,
transportation facilities, and community facilities.
1401.02   This Article establishes standards for the Planned Community
Facilities District in areas served by central sanitary sewers and Central
Water Systems, or developments utilizing other sewage treatment options
approved in the development plan, subject to Article
1 of this Resolution. The foregoing shall not preclude any property not meeting
this standard but already within this District from being developed in
accordance with the terms of this Zoning Resolution.
Section 1402: Contiguity of Land and Project Ownership
1402.01   All land within a proposed Planned Development shall be Contiguous
and shall not be divided into parts by any state or federal limited access
highway or by any railroad Right-of-Way .
1402.02   The Planned Development area shall be under contract for purchase by
a single entity or owned by a single entity at the time of application. For the
purposes of this subsection, a single entity includes the following: a married
couple; a corporation; a partnership; or two or more property owners who have
entered a general development plan for a Planned Development .
Section 1403: General Requirements
1403.01   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all lands zoned in the
Planned Community Facilities District (PCF).
   A)   Any Lot or Tract depicted on the Zoning Map as being wholly or
partially within the Hoover Reservoir Watershed shall also be subject to the
additional provisions established within Article
7 of this Zoning Resolution, the Hoover Watershed Overlay District (HOD).
Should these two articles conflict with one another, the requirements of
Article
7 shall apply unless otherwise expressly stated within this Resolution.
1403.02   The proposed Building s or Use shall be located on a major Arterial
or Collector Street so as to generate a minimum of traffic on local streets.
Educational Institutions servicing elementary-aged children, playgrounds, and/
or parks intended for neighborhood use may, however, be located on Local Street
s.
1403.03   The Density of land use within a Planned Community Facilities
District shall not exceed 1.0 Dwelling s per Net Developable Acre unless
otherwise authorized by a Divergence that has been reviewed and approved in
accordance with the standards set forth in Section
2707 of this Resolution.
1403.04   At least forty percent (40%) of the gross acreage shall be reserved
as Open Space , as defined herein. In computing the amount of Open Space ,
entrance features, road  Rights-of-Way of all types, paved vehicular areas,
including parking areas, and driveways shall be excluded.
1403.05   Where the Lot Lines separate a Planned Industrial District from a
Residential or Planned Residential District , a Non-Residential Buffer and
Development Setback in accordance with Section
2003 shall be provided.
1403.06   Developments within this District shall be planned as groups having
common parking area(s) and common ingress and egress points to reduce the
number of potential accident locations at intersections with Thoroughfare s.
   A)   Planned Community Facilities Districts less than twenty (20) or more
acres in area shall have direct access to one (1) Arterial Street .
   B)   Planned Community Facilities Districts of twenty (20) or more acres in
area shall have direct access to one (1) Arterial Street and to one (1)
Collector Street and/or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street . The
minimum required separation distance of the latter shall be three hundred (300)
feet, subject to the approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
1403.07   Size and Layout.
   A)   One or more Building s or permitted Use s may be placed on a Lot /Tract
; however, the maximum square feet of first-floor Building Area for all
Building s on a site shall be determined by the following ratio: Lot /Tract
Area in acres x (multiplied by) 7,500 sq. ft.
   B)   If multiple Building s are constructed on the same Lot or Tract there
shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet separating them.
1403.08   Stormwater Management.
   A)   Setback s.
      1)   All stormwater basins shall be set back a minimum of twenty (20)
feet from: Lot Lines , Structure s, designated Building Envelopes , and
designated Limited Common Element Areas.
      2)   The setback distance shall be measured landward from the maximum one
hundred (100) year stormwater surface elevation of the basin during a one
hundred (100) year storm.
   B)   Stormwater basins and pond perimeters shall be landscaped in accordance
with Section
2004.
   C)   All site plans must have a stormwater management plan, approved by the
Delaware County Engineer’s Office, with the improvements constructed before a
Zoning Permit will be issued for construction of Building s.
   D)   Should any of the above contradict or conflict with the regulations of
any County, State, or Federal agency having jurisdiction over such matter, the
regulations of said agency shall supersede.
1403.09   Parking and Loading Areas.
   A)   Parking activities, including spaces, drive aisles, and loading areas,
shall comply with Article
19 unless otherwise specified.
   B)   No parking lot shall be closer than twenty-five (25) feet from the edge
of the Contiguous Street Right-of-Way in a Planned Industrial District unless
the parking lot is Contiguous to a Residential or Planned Residential District
, in which case seventy-five (75) feet shall be the closest distance of the
parking lot to the edge of the Contiguous Street Right-of-Way .
1403.10   Streets – All Streets including private Streets shall conform to
specifications as set forth in the Delaware County Subdivision Regulations.
Public road improvements in Planned Development s shall require the following:
   A)   All Street drainage shall be enclosed;
   B)   Curbs and gutters shall be installed; and
   C)   Minimum Street width shall be as required by the Delaware County
Engineer.
1403.11   Sidewalks, Multi-Use Paths , and Trails.
   A)   Sidewalks along Streets .
      1)   New Streets . Paved sidewalks and/or Multi-Use Paths shall be
provided along both sides of any new public or private Street .
      2)   Existing Streets . Paved sidewalks and/or Multi-Use Paths shall be
provided along any existing public or private Street within, abutting, or
adjacent to a Planned Development .
      3)   Whether a sidewalk or Multi-Use Path is installed shall be
determined by the context of the surrounding area. Consistence in the type
(sidewalk or Multi-Use Path ) with neighboring properties and/or with any paved
pedestrian network already established along the subject Street corridor shall
be maintained and continued whenever possible and logical to do so.
      4)   A Divergence shall be required to not install required sidewalks
and/or Multi-Use Paths . For such a Divergence to be warranted, in addition to
the standards of Article
27, Section
2707, easements allowing for future construction and maintenance by the
Township, or its assignee, and public pedestrian access shall be provided in
lieu of the above.
         a)   The width of said easement shall be at least twenty (20) feet.
         b)   Easements shall be recorded prior to the issuance of any Zoning
Permit for Building s within the Planned Development .
   B)   Sidewalks shall be at least five (5) feet wide and constructed of
concrete or another similar type of surface.
   C)   Multi-Use Paths shall be at least ten (10) feet wide and constructed of
asphalt or another similar type of surface.
   D)   Trails, where provided, shall be at least four (4) feet wide and may be
paved or unpaved but must be visually delineated in some fashion.
Section 1404: Use s
1404.01   Permitted Principal Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses.
1404.02   Permitted Accessory Uses shall be as established within Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses.
1404.03   All Use s not specifically authorized as a permitted or conditionally
permitted Use by Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses or Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses are hereby prohibited.
1404.04   Unless otherwise permitted in this Resolution, no Building or
Structure shall be used for residential purposes except that a watchman or
custodian may reside on the premises.
1404.05   A Zoning Permit shall be obtained before any Use is initiated,
changed, or significantly altered in accordance with Section
115.02.
Section 1405: Dimensional Requirements
1405.01   Minimum Setback s from respective Lot Lines shall be as identified in
the table below. Should the Lot or Tract be Contiguous to a Lot or Lots within
multiple Zoning Districts , the most restrictive Setback applicable to the Yard
in question shall apply.
 
                  RR      SR      PRD     CB      PCD      LI or PID PCF
Front Parking and 75 feet 75 feet 75 feet 30 feet 30 feet  30 feet   30 feet
Drives
Side Parking &    25 feet 25 feet 25 feet 6 feet  6 feet   6 feet    6 feet
Drives
Rear Parking &    75 feet 75 feet 75 feet 6 feet  6 feet   6 feet    6 feet
Drives
Building , Front  75 feet 75 feet 75 feet 50 feet 100 feet 100 feet  50 feet
Building , Side   Note A  Note A  Note A  25 feet 25 feet  25 feet   25 feet
Building , Rear   Note B  Note B  Note B  25 feet 25 feet  25 feet   25 feet
 
Note A: The required Setback shall be equal to: one-fourth (1/4) of the sum of
the Height of the Structure plus the linear length of the wall most nearly
parallel to the Side Lot Line . In no case shall the Setback be less than
twenty-five (25) feet.
Note B: The required Setback shall be equal to: one-fourth (1/4) of the sum of
the Height of the Structure plus the length of the wall most nearly parallel to
the Rear Lot Line . In no case shall the Setback be less than fifty (50) feet.
1405.02   Building or Structure Height limits: Unless otherwise permitted in
Section
1616, no Building or Structure in this District shall exceed thirty-five (35)
feet in Height .
   A)   No Aerial Antenna or tower shall be constructed to a Height greater
than the distance from the center of the base thereof to the nearest Lot Line ,
less ten (10) feet of said Tract .
1405.03   Lots designated solely for the purpose of Governmental Facilities ,
Right-of-Way , designated Open Space preservation, Public Utilities , or
stormwater management shall be exempt from minimum Lot Area requirements. Such
designation shall be reflected in the Zoning Permit issued for the creation of
the Lot if one is required by this Resolution.
Section 1406: District Standards
1406.01   The provisions of Article
16, General Standards, shall apply to this Zoning District except as may
otherwise be modified within this document.
1406.02   The following standards regarding outdoor activities shall apply in
addition to any other applicable regulations pertaining to such matters:
   A)   Outdoor dining areas, Lounge areas, and the like shall be permitted.
Such areas shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from any Lot Line and
subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
   B)   Both Mechanical and Self-Service Vending shall be permitted outdoors.
Such areas, including storage bins and machines, shall be located adjacent to a
Building and subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
1406.03   All premises, including Pedestrianway s not otherwise functioning as
nature trails, shall be furnished with all-weather hard surface walks of a
material such as bituminous or Portland cement concrete, wood, tile, terrazzo,
or similar material, and except for parking areas, the grounds shall be planted
and landscaped.
1406.04   Buffers, Screening, and Landscaping shall be required pursuant to
Article
20.
   A)   All Yards, Off-Street Parking Lots and associated perimeters, and
stormwater basins shall be set back, buffered, screened, and landscaped in
accordance with Article
2003.
   B)   All Off-Street Parking Lot interiors, Building foundations, dumpsters,
and other similar types of waste containers, building Mechanical systems,
interior drive aisles, loading areas, Building service entrances, waste
enclosures, loading docks, and steep slopes shall be buffered, screened, and/or
landscaped in accordance with Article
2004.
   C)   All areas where Building s, parking areas, or Pedestrianway s are not
present shall be seeded or sodded with grass before a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance is issued.
1406.05   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1406.06   Exterior lighting shall be designed and installed in accordance with
Article
21 of this Zoning Resolution.
1406.07   Sign s shall be subject to the provisions within Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
1406.08   Cluster Box Units (CBUs) shall be subject to the provisions within
Article
16, Section
1620 of this Zoning Resolution.
1406.09   Swimming Pool s and Water Impoundments shall be subject to the
provisions within Section
1614 of this Zoning Resolution.
1406.10   Noise Control:
   A)   Outdoor speakers playing low-level music/audio as well as on-site
exterior video displays, including Electronic Message Center  Sign s, shall not
emit any noise or sound that by reason of volume, pitch, frequency, intensity,
duration, or nature annoys or disturbs the comfort, peace, or health of a
person of ordinary sensibilities located within a Residential or Planned
Residential Zoning District under normal conditions by a reasonable person. Any
noise or sound prohibited by this Section must be plainly audible at a distance
of one hundred (100) feet or more from the property from the noise emanates to
become a prima facie violation of this Resolution.
1406.11   Waste, including debris, Junk , litter, refuse, and trash, as well as
compost and recyclables, shall be controlled and stored in containers.
Dumpsters and other similar types of large waste containers, which are
typically not moved by Manual means, and which are not considered to be a
Portable Storage Unit , shall not be permitted in a required Front Yard and
shall be enclosed and screened in accordance with Section
2004.
1406.12   Outdoor Storage and Displays shall be regulated by Section
1610 of this Zoning Resolution with the following exceptions:
   A)   Unless otherwise authorized herein, Outdoor Storage of inoperable,
unlicensed or unused motor vehicles for a period exceeding seven (7) days shall
be prohibited.
   B)   Outdoor Storage and Display of merchandise on Pedestrianway s is
prohibited unless a five (5) foot-wide strip is left for pedestrian traffic.
1406.13   Portable Storage Unit s shall be regulated by Section
2405 of this Zoning Resolution.
Section 1407: Administration and Enforcement
1407.01   Pursuant to ORC 519.021(A), this District may be permitted upon
application and approval of specific and detailed Final Development Plan , and
all shall require amendments to the official Zoning Map . Approval for Planned
Development  Rezoning applications may be granted pursuant to ORC 519.12 only
when the plan for the project complies with these regulations, promotes the
general public health, safety, morals, and general welfare, encourages the
efficient use of land and resources, promotes greater efficiency in providing
public and utility services, and encourages innovation in the planning and
building of the development.
1407.02   Applications and requests pertinent to the Planned Community
Facilities District, including Zoning Map Amendment s, Preliminary Development
Plan s, Final Development Plans, Final Development Plan amendments,
Divergences, subdivisions, Zoning Permit s, and Certificates of Compliance ,
shall be administered in accordance with Article
27.
   A)   The following shall be eligible, but not required, to combine the
Zoning Map Amendment , Preliminary Development Plan , and Final Development
Plan into a single application contrary to the two-step process otherwise
required by Section
2701.01 of this Resolution:
      1)   Projects consisting of one (1) Principal Building totaling no more
than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in size on a Lot or Tract three (3) or
fewer acres in size.
   B)   Projects eligible to be combined into a single application shall be
required to provide all submittal materials required by Sections
2703 and
2705 of this Resolution, minus any overlapping or redundant items.
   C)   Projects eligible to be combined into a single application shall follow
the procedures set forth in Section
2704 of this Resolution with the exception of Sections
2704.22.A and
2704.23, which, for the purposes of this Section only, shall be considered moot
and subsequently not applicable. Such applications shall still be subject to
referendum per Sections
2704.18 and
2704.19 of this Resolution.
   D)   Final Development Plans approved under a combined, single application
shall still be subject to Sections
2706.16 -
2706.20.
1407.03   Enforcement shall be conducted pursuant to Section
2713.
1407.04   Non-conforming Lot s, Use s, and Structure s shall be subject to
Article
25.
ARTICLE 15: Light Industrial District (LI)
Section 1501: Introduction
1501.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   The intent of the Light Industrial District is to provide areas for
Industrial establishments that are pleasant, safe, and convenient to the
Township while protecting public health, safety, and general welfare.
1501.02   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all lands zoned Light
Industrial District (LI) subject to Article
1 of this Resolution.
1501.03   The district is to be applied to areas currently served by central
sewer wastewater treatment plants operated by the Delaware County Sanitary
Engineer, as well as by central water and other Essential Services .
1501.04   Any Lot depicted on the Zoning Map as being wholly or partially
within the Hoover Reservoir Watershed shall also be subject to the additional
provisions established within Article
7 of this Zoning Resolution, the Hoover Watershed Overlay District (HOD).
Should these two articles conflict with one another, the requirements of
Article
7 shall apply unless otherwise expressly stated within this Resolution.
Section 1502: Use s
1502.01   Permitted Principal Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses.
1502.02   Permitted Accessory Uses shall be as established within Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses.
1502.03   Permitted Conditional Use s shall be as established within Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses and Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses. Authorized Conditional Use s shall
adhere to Article
3 of this Resolution and shall demonstrate compliance with any applicable
conditions established for said Use within Articles
17,
22,
23, and/or
24.
1502.04   All Use s not specifically authorized as a permitted or conditionally
permitted Use by Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses or Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses, both located within Article
5 of this Zoning Resolution, are hereby prohibited.
1502.05   A Zoning Permit shall be obtained before any Use is initiated,
changed, or significantly altered in accordance with Section
115.02.
Section 1503: Dimensional Requirements
1503.01   Minimum Lot Area : Two (2) acres.
   A)   Any portion of a Lot within a Common Access Driveway (CAD) easement(s)
or Street  Right-of-Way shall not count towards the minimum Lot Area
requirement.
   B)   Lots designated solely for the purpose of Governmental Facilities ,
Right-of-Way , designated Open Space preservation, Public Utilities , or
stormwater management shall be exempt from any Lot Area requirements. Such
designation shall be reflected in the Zoning Permit issued for the creation of
the Lot if one is required by this Resolution.
1503.02   Minimum Lot Frontage : Two hundred (200) feet, unless otherwise
specified below.
   A)   Corner Lots : One hundred (100) feet on one (1) Street , two hundred
(200) feet, total.
   B)   Flag Lots : Eighty-five (85) feet. Stacking Flag Lots in a manner that
would result in the “pole” sections of two (2) or more Flag Lot s being
Contiguous to one another shall not be permitted.
   C)   Landlocked Lots : Two hundred (200) feet.
   D)   Lots meeting the criteria set forth in Section
1503.01.B above shall be exempt from Frontage requirements.
1503.03   Landlocked Lots shall be accessed by a Common Access Driveway (CAD)
as regulated by Section
1604. This provision shall not be interpreted as a prohibition of Flag Lot s or
any other Lot design otherwise permitted in Section
1503.02.A - C.
1503.04   Lot Width :
   A)   All Lots shall be at least eighty-five (85) feet wide between its
required Frontage and the required Front Yard  Setback .
   B)   All Lots shall be at least one hundred (100) feet wide at the required
Front Yard  Setback .
   C)   Lots meeting the criteria set forth in Section
1503.01.B above shall be exempt from Lot Width requirements.
1503.05   Minimum Front Yard  Setback depth: One hundred and fifty (150) feet
from the Front Lot Line unless otherwise specified below.
   A)   The Front Yard  Setback depth of a Flag Lot shall be fifty (50) feet,
measured from the point at which said Lot reaches two hundred (200) feet in
width.
1503.06   Minimum Side Yard  Setback width, each side: Twenty-five (25) feet
from the Side Lot Line (s).
1503.07   Minimum Rear Yard  Setback depth: Fifty (50) feet from the Rear Lot
Line .
1503.08   No Building , including Accessory Buildings , shall be located closer
than one hundred (100) feet from a Residential or Planned Residential District
boundary line.
1503.09   Building or Structure Height limits: Unless otherwise permitted
within this Resolution, no Building or Structure in this District shall exceed
thirty-five (35) feet in Height . No Aerial Antenna or tower shall be
constructed to a Height greater than the distance from the center of the base
thereof to the nearest Lot Line , less ten (10) feet of said Tract ; and
1503.10   Lot Coverage : On no Lot in this Zoning District shall Structure s be
constructed that cover more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the Lot Area .
1503.11   Total land occupancy by all Building s and Impervious Surfaces on a
single Lot in this District shall not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of said
Lot .
1503.12   Parking Areas.
   A)   Parking activities, including spaces, drive aisles, and loading areas,
shall be provided and designed in accordance with Article
19 unless otherwise specified.
   B)   No Off-Street Parking Lot or Parking Facility shall be closer than
twenty-five (25) feet from the edge of the Contiguous Street Right-of-Way
unless the parking lot is Contiguous to a Residential or Planned Residential
Zoning District , in which case seventy-five (75) feet shall be the closest
permitted distance to the edge of the Contiguous  Street  Right-of-Way .
   C)   Parking areas shall be set back from Side and Rear Lot Lines a minimum
of six (6) feet unless Contiguous to a Residential or Planned Residential
Zoning District , in which case the Setback shall be twenty (20) feet.
Section 1504: District Standards
1504.01   The provisions of Article
16, General Standards, shall apply to this Zoning District except as may
otherwise be modified within this document.
1504.02   All Streets , including private Streets , shall conform to the
requirements of Delaware County and the Genoa Township Fire Department. In
instances of conflict with this Resolution, the aforementioned agencies shall
prevail.
1504.03   All premises, including Pedestrianway s not otherwise functioning as
nature trails, shall be furnished with all-weather hard surface walks of
materials such as bituminous or Portland cement concrete, wood, tile, terrazzo,
or similar material, and except for parking areas, the grounds shall be planted
and landscaped.
1504.04   Buffers, Screening, and Landscaping shall be required pursuant to
Article
20.
   A)   All Yards, Off-Street Parking Lots and associated perimeters, and
stormwater basins shall be set back, buffered, screened, and landscaped in
accordance with Article
2003.
   B)   All Off-Street Parking Lot interiors, Building foundations, dumpsters
and other similar types of waste containers, building Mechanical systems,
interior drive aisles, loading areas, Building service entrances, waste
enclosures, loading docks, and steep slopes shall be buffered, screened, and/or
landscaped in accordance with Article
2004.
   C)   All areas where Building s, parking areas, or Pedestrianway s are not
present shall be seeded or sodded with grass before a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance is issued.
1504.05   Stormwater Management – all developments shall have a stormwater
management plan approved by the Delaware County Engineer’s Office, if
applicable.
1504.06   Activities, excluding parking, shall primarily be conducted within a
completely enclosed Building or other appropriate structural element(s) unless
otherwise permitted herein. This provision shall not apply to activities found
to be ancillary, customarily incidental, or inconsequential to the Use of the
subject property.
   A)   Outdoor dining areas, Lounge areas, and the like shall be permitted.
Such areas shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from any Lot Line and
subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
   B)   Both Mechanical and Self-Service Vending shall be permitted outdoors.
Such areas, including storage bins and machines, shall be located adjacent to a
Building and subject to Section
1610 of this Resolution.
1504.07   Noise Control:
   A)   Outdoor speakers playing low-level music/audio as well as on-site
exterior video displays, including Electronic Message Center  Sign s, shall not
emit any noise or sound that by reason of volume, pitch, frequency, intensity,
duration, or nature annoys or disturbs the comfort, peace, or health of a
person of ordinary sensibilities located within a Residential or Planned
Residential Zoning District under normal conditions by a reasonable person. Any
noise or sound prohibited by this Section must be plainly audible at a distance
of one hundred (100) feet or more from the property from the noise emanates to
become a prima facie violation of this Resolution.
   B)   Outdoor live entertainment, not otherwise qualifying as a Temporary Use
or permitted by this Resolution shall be prohibited.
1504.08   Unless otherwise permitted by this Resolution, no Building or
Structure shall be used for residential purposes except that a watchman or
custodian may reside on the premises.
1504.09   No emission of toxic or noxious matter, which is injurious to human
health, comfort or enjoyment of life and property or to animal or plant life,
shall be permitted. Where such emissions could be produced as a result of an
accident or equipment malfunction, adequate safeguards considered suitable for
safe operation in the industry involved shall be taken.
1504.10   The emission of smoke or other air pollutants and dust borne by the
wind shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate Landscaping , paving, or other
acceptable means.
1504.11   There shall be no emission of odors or odor-causing substances that
can be detected without the use of instruments at or beyond the Lot Lines .
1504.12   There shall be no vibrations that can be detected without the use of
instruments at or beyond the Lot Lines .
1504.13   Outdoor Storage and Displays shall be regulated by Section
1610 of this Zoning Resolution with the following exceptions:
   A)   Unless otherwise authorized herein, Outdoor Storage of inoperable,
unlicensed or unused motor vehicles for a period exceeding seven (7) days shall
be prohibited.
   B)   Outdoor Storage and Display of merchandise on Pedestrianway s is
prohibited unless a five (5) foot wide strip is left for pedestrian traffic.
   C)   The storage, utilization, and manufacture of solid, liquid, and gaseous
chemicals and other materials shall be permitted, contrary to prohibitions
which may be found elsewhere in this Zoning Resolution, subject to the
following conditions:
      1)   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of solid materials or
products ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted,
but only if said materials or products are stored, utilized, or manufactured
within completely enclosed Building s having noncombustible exterior walls and
protected throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system.
      2)   All activities involving the use and/or storage and/or disposal of
flammable liquids or materials that produce flammable or explosive vapors or
gases shall be provided with adequate safety and protective devices against
hazards of fire and explosions, as well as adequate firefighting and
suppression equipment and devices standard to the industry involved.
      3)   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of pyrophoric and explosive
powders and dusts, and of materials and products that decompose by detonation,
is prohibited.
      4)   The manufacture of flammable liquids or materials that produce
flammable or explosive vapors or gases is prohibited.
      5)   The storage and utilization of flammable liquids or materials that
produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases shall be permitted on any Lot in
strict conformance with the applicable regulations set forth in the “Ohio Rules
and Regulations of the Division of the State Fire Marshal for the Manufacture,
Storage, Handling, Sale, and Transportation of Flammable and Combustible
Liquids”.
   D)   The handling of radioactive materials, the discharge of such materials
into air and water, and the disposal of radioactive wastes shall be permitted,
contrary to prohibitions which may be found elsewhere in this Resolution, but
shall be done so in strict conformance with:
   1)   The applicable regulations of any federal, state, and/or other
regulatory agency; and
      2)   The applicable regulations of any instrumentality of the State of
Ohio.
1504.14   Waste, including debris, Junk , litter, refuse, and trash, as well as
compost and recyclables, shall be controlled and stored in containers.
Dumpsters and other similar types of large waste containers, which are
typically not moved by Manual means and which are not considered to be a
Portable Storage Unit , shall not be permitted in a required Front Yard and
shall be enclosed and screened in accordance with Section
2004.
1504.15   Exterior lighting shall comply with Article
21.
1504.16   Sign s shall be subject to the provisions within Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
1504.17   Cluster Box Units (CBUs) shall be subject to the provisions within
Article
16, Section
1620 of this Zoning Resolution.
1504.18   Swimming Pool s and Water Impoundments shall be subject to the
provisions within Section
1614 of this Zoning Resolution.
1504.19   Portable Storage Unit s shall be regulated by Section
2405 of this Zoning Resolution.
Section 1505: Administration and Enforcement
1505.01   Applications for Rezoning to the Light Industrial District shall be
administered in accordance with Article
26.
1505.02   Applications for Zoning Permit s and Certificates of Compliance shall
be administered in accordance with Section
115 as well as all other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
1505.03   Applications for Variance s, Conditional Use s, and Administrative
Appeals shall be administered in accordance with Article
3.
1505.04   A Zoning Permit shall be required for any subdivision of property
within the Light Industrial District that requires the signature of the Genoa
Township Zoning Inspector.
1505.05   Enforcement shall be conducted pursuant to Section
116 as well as all other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
1505.06   Non-conforming Lot s, Use s, and Structure s shall be subject to
Article
25.
ARTICLE 16: General Standards
Section 1601: Introduction
1601.01   Intent and Purpose. The intent and purpose of these general standards
is to establish regulations that apply equally and universally across all
unincorporated areas of Genoa Township, regardless of Zoning District
classification, unless otherwise specified within this Zoning Resolution, to
promote and protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the community.
Section 1602: General Requirements
1602.01   The standards within this Article are applicable to all Zoning
Districts unless otherwise stipulated or modified by the requirements of a
specific Zoning District and/or Article
1, Section
117.
   A)   Standards pertaining to the following shall similarly apply to all
Zoning Districts , subject to any exclusions or modifications in this
Resolution.
         a)   Article
17, Conditional and Special Use Standards
         b)   Article
18, Sign Standards
         c)   Article
19, Parking Standards
      4)   Article
22, Utilities and Related Uses
      5)   Article
23, Agriculture and Related Uses
      6)   Article
24, Temporary Use s and Structure s
      7)   Article
25, Non-Conformities
1602.02   The applicability of Article
20, Landscaping Standards, shall be as specified in Section
2001.
1602.03   The applicability of Article
21, Lighting Standards to Zoning Districts shall be as specified in Section
2101.03.
Section 1603: Fences and Walls
1603.01   No person shall erect or construct a Fence or Accessory Wall without
first obtaining a Zoning Permit as per Section
115 of this Resolution.
   A)   A plot plan or site plan must be provided along with a completed permit
application showing the location of the proposed Fence or Accessory Wall and
accurate distance measurements from all existing Structure s and Lot Lines .
1603.02   The location and Height of all Fences, Accessory Walls, and
vegetation shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
1603.03   Fences and Accessory Walls on Corner Lots shall not interfere with
sight distance as further regulated in Section
1615.
1603.04   Fences and Accessory Walls shall not be permitted within any Right-
of-Way .
1603.05   Maximum Permitted Height .
   A)   The maximum permitted Height for a Fence or Accessory Wall located
twenty (20) or more feet away from any Street  Right-of-Way line shall be eight
(8) feet.
   B)   The maximum permitted Height for a Fence or Accessory Wall located less
than twenty (20) feet from a Street  Right-of-Way line shall be thirty-six (36)
inches unless specified below, in which case Section
1603.05.A shall still apply.
      1)   Fences and Accessory Walls located within designated Open Space
areas of Planned Development s.
      2)   Fences and Accessory Walls exceeding thirty-six (36) inches in
Height shall be permitted if they are required by Section
1614 and placed ten (10) feet or less from the edge of a Swimming Pool . This
exception shall only apply to the portion(s) of the Fence or Accessory Wall
meeting said parameters. The maximum eight (8) foot Height restriction
established herein shall remain applicable.
      3)   Fences and Accessory Walls located more than thirty (30) feet away
from any driveway, emergency access way, Street intersection, or vehicular
access point on the same side of the said Street  Right-of-Way to which the
fence/wall is adjacent.
      4)   Fences and Accessory Walls located outside of any clear site
triangle(s) as determined by a licensed professional engineer or surveyor.
Documentation demonstrating such shall be provided to the Zoning Inspector.
1603.06   Supporting members for Accessory Walls and Fences shall be installed
on the interior of the Lot being fenced. This regulation shall not apply to
Fences or Accessory Walls that are designed so that the supporting members are
identical in appearance from both sides of the Fence.
1603.07   Fences and Accessory Walls shall be kept in proper repair and
maintained so as not to create conditions that endanger public health, safety,
or general welfare.
1603.08   Setback s for electrified Fences.
   A)   On Lots or Tract s of less than one (1) acre: The established Principal
Building  Setback for said Lot or Tract . In instances where no such Setback
exists, the requirement shall be twenty (20) feet from each Lot Line .
   B)   On Lots or Tract s of one (1) acre or greater: Twenty (20) feet from
any Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from all other Lot Lines .
1603.09   No Accessory Structure , Accessory Wall , Fence, or vegetation of any
kind may be constructed, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which would
visibly obscure, hide, or screen fire hydrants, street address numbering, and
other security or emergency service equipment, controls or components.
1603.10   Where a Fence or Accessory Wall is constructed on an embankment
greater than one (1) foot in height, or where the ground under a Fence or
Accessory Wall has been graded greater than one (1) foot higher level than the
surrounding ground, the permissible Height of the Fence or Accessory Wall , as
set forth in this Section, shall be reduced by the Height of the embankment or
grading.
1603.11   Retaining Wall s.
   A)   Retaining Wall s shall not: be located in the Right-of-Way , exceed
thirty (30) inches in Height between the Principal Structure and the Right-of-
Way , or exceed six (6) feet in Height at any other location.
   B)   Retaining Wall s shall be set back from adjacent Lot Lines at a
distance of twice the Height of the Retaining Wall .
1603.12   Entry Feature s to private residential properties shall be subject to
the provisions of Section
1605.
Section 1604: Common Access Driveways
1604.01   A Common Access Driveway (CAD) shall be permitted if approved by the
Delaware County Regional Planning Commission and not otherwise prohibited by
this Resolution.
Section 1605: Access Drives, Appurtenant Structure s, and Entry Feature s
1605.01   All private access drives and necessary or related appurtenant
Structure s shall conform to the requirements of this Section and may be
subject to approval by the Genoa Township Fire Department.
1605.02   Private access driveways for individual Lots with a travel length
over four hundred (400) feet shall be designed to provide widened paved passing
areas at least fifteen (15) feet in width and sixty (60) feet in length at
intervals not more than three hundred (300) feet in distance from each other.
1605.03   Gates erected across an access drive, or across any part of a
property’s ingress/egress, and/or incorporated in an Entry Feature of any
property shall provide Manual or automatic release mechanisms for emergency
vehicle access. Electronically or manually locking gates that cannot meet the
above requirements are prohibited.
1605.04   Entry Feature s.
   A)   The maximum Height permitted for an Entry Feature , excluding
architectural features or gates spanning over a driveway, shall be eight (8)
feet.
   B)   Entry Feature s erected approximately parallel to a Lot’s linear Right-
of-Way  Frontage shall comprise no more than fifty percent (50%) of the length
of said Frontage . Said measurement shall exclude any architectural features or
gates spanning over a driveway.
   C)   A Zoning Permit shall be required for the installation of an Entry
Feature unless said improvement is:
      1)   Six (6) or fewer feet in length pursuant to the measurement
methodology expressed in Article
4 and Sections
1605.04.A & B herein; and
      2)   Six (6) or fewer feet in Height .
Section 1606: Dwelling s per Lot
1606.01   No more than one (1) Dwelling may be constructed upon any one Lot for
the purposes of this Resolution unless otherwise permitted by this Zoning
Resolution (e.g., Accessory Dwellings ). No Divergence shall be required to
place more than one (1) Dwelling in a Planned Development , subject to other
applicable restrictions of this Resolution, such as those pertaining to Density
.
1606.02   Dwelling s connected via a roofed outdoor passage (e.g., breezeway)
shall generally be permitted subject to the provisions of Section
1609.
Section 1607: Reduction of Area or Space
1607.01   No Lot , Yard , court, parking area, or other space shall be reduced
in area or dimension, thus making said area or dimension less than the minimum
required by this Resolution. If said area or dimension is already less than the
minimum required by this Resolution, it shall be considered to be non-
conforming and subject to Article
25.
1607.02   No part of a Yard , court, parking area, or other space provided for
any Building or Structure for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
this Zoning Resolution shall be included as part of a Yard , court, parking
area, or other space required under this Zoning Resolution for another Building
or Structure unless otherwise specified herein.
Section 1608: Architectural Feature Exceptions
1608.01   Sills, pilasters, cornices, eaves, gutters, and other similar
architectural features may project into any required yard  Setback , No Build
Zone , or No Disturb Zone a maximum of twenty-four (24) inches.
1608.02   The following architectural features not otherwise exempt under
Article
1, Section
117.01.L or regulated herein this section may extend into the required Front
and Rear Yard a maximum of ten (10) feet: Decks, steps, patios, Awnings,
balconies, chimneys, and other similar types of incidental Structure s which
are Attached to, or located immediately adjacent to, a Principal Building .
This standard shall similarly apply to non-retaining walls (seating or
otherwise), piers, outdoor kitchens, grills, fire pits, and other such
improvements not meeting the definition of a Building associated with such
features. Detached iterations of the aforementioned not otherwise specified
herein shall comply with the provisions of Section
1603 and/or
1609.
1608.03   No Structure , unless otherwise specified herein, may project into a
required Side Yard .
1608.04   Window wells.
   A)   Egress window wells may extend into a required side yard provided that
the well is covered with a hard surface and the well is no closer than six (6)
feet to any adjoining Lot Line .
   B)   Window wells that do not provide egress and are two (2) feet or less in
depth may extend to the Lot Line .
1608.05   The maximum permitted Height of an architectural feature or
incidental Structure s Attached to, or immediately adjacent to, a Principal
Building and not otherwise exempted under Article
1 Section
117.01.L, shall be the maximum Principal Building  Height established for the
Zoning District in which the feature is located, subject to Section
1616 of this Article. Iterations of the aforementioned not otherwise specified
herein shall comply with the provisions of Section
1603 and/or
1609.
Section 1609: Accessory Buildings & Accessory Buildings s
1609.01   Accessory Buildings shall be in conformity with the following
provisions unless otherwise specified within this Resolution:
   A)   No Accessory Building shall be erected within any required Front Yard
 Setback of the Principal Building unless otherwise permitted by Section
1608.
   B)   Unless otherwise permitted by Section
1608, Side and Rear Yard  Setback s for Accessory Buildings shall be ten (10)
feet; however, if such Building is connected to a Principal Building on the
same Lot or Tract via a roofed, outdoor passage (e.g., breezeway), it shall
comply with the Principal Building  Setback s applicable to said Lot or Tract .
      1)   When the required Side Yard  Setback for a Principal Building is
less than ten (10) feet, the Accessory Building may be located at that reduced
Setback .
      2)   Dwelling s within Building s connected via a roofed outdoor passage
(e.g., breezeway) shall be considered separate Dwelling s for the purposes of
this Resolution, including Density , and as such shall be subject to the
restrictions set forth in Section
1606. The foregoing shall not be considered a prohibition against Accessory
Dwelling s permitted by and regulated elsewhere within this Resolution, nor the
connecting of a Principal Building containing a principal Dwelling to a lawful
Accessory Dwelling via a roofed outdoor passage (e.g., breezeway).
      3)   No more than four (4) Building s may be connected to one another via
a roofed, outdoor passage (e.g., breezeway).
   C)   The maximum number of Accessory Buildings permitted per Lot shall be
one (1) plus one (1) for each full acre of Lot Area , but in no case shall
exceed five (5) Accessory Buildings on a Lot .
   D)   Maximum Permitted Accessory Building  Height :
      1)   On Lots of two (2) or fewer acres in size, twenty-two (22) feet,
with the following exceptions:
         a)   The maximum may be increased proportionally at a one-to-one (1:1)
ratio to the distance of the minimum required Setback s established in Section
1609.01.B above; however, the overall maximum permitted Height shall be capped
at thirty-five (35) feet regardless of any proposed Setback s. For the purposes
of administration, the permitted increase shall be based on the smallest
proposed Setback for the subject Accessory Building .
         b)   Accessory Buildings that comply with all Principal Building s
Setback s established for the Zoning District in which it is located may be
constructed up to thirty-five (35) feet in Height . This provision overrides
Section
1609.01.D.1.a above.
      2)   On Lots greater than two (2) acres, thirty-five (35) feet.
   E)   Accessory Buildings shall be subject to any applicable Building and/or
Lot Coverage restrictions within this Resolution.
   F)   No Accessory Building within any district shall contain an Accessory
Dwelling unless such Use is permitted as a Conditional Use within a District.
Accessory Dwelling s, where permitted, shall comply with Section
1737.
   G)   Accessory Buildings two hundred (200) square feet in size and twelve
(12) or fewer feet in Height shall be exempt from conforming with this Zoning
Resolution, including
1609.01.A – F above, and subsequently shall not require a Zoning Permit so long
as the number of such sized Building s on a Lot does not exceed two (2). As
such, any such-sized Building established on a Lot that already contains (2)
exempted Accessory Buildings shall be required to conform with this Zoning
Resolution and subsequently shall require a Zoning Permit as set forth in
Article
1 of this Resolution.
      1)   This exemption shall not be administered, construed, or interpreted
to permit a Use that is prohibited in any given Zoning District by this
Resolution.
      2)   This exemption shall not apply to any Use requiring Conditional Use
approval or any improvement meeting the definition of an Accessory Wall , Entry
Feature , Fence, Landing Pad/Strip , Private Utilities , Retaining Wall ,
Satellite Dish, Sign (including Billboards and Outdoor Advertising ), Small
Solar Facility , Sign , Small Wind Farm , or Swimming Pool . The preceding
shall not preclude an exemption otherwise granted by this Resolution.
1609.02   Accessory Structures shall be in conformity with the provisions below
unless otherwise stated within this Resolution:
   A)   No Accessory Structure requiring a Zoning Permit shall be erected
within any required Front Yard  Setback unless otherwise permitted by Section
1608.
   B)   Unless otherwise permitted by Section
1608, Side and Rear Yard  Setback s for Accessory Structures requiring a Zoning
Permit shall be ten (10) feet; however, Structure s connected to a Principal
Building on the same Lot or Tract via a roofed, outdoor passage (i.e.,
breezeway) shall comply with the Principal Building  Setback s applicable to
said Lot or Tract . When the required Side Lot or Rear Lot Line for the
Principal Building on that property is less than ten (10) feet, the Accessory
Structure may be located at that reduced Setback .
      1)   A propane tank is permitted in a Side or Rear setback so long as it
is placed in accordance with the minimum setback requirements set forth in the
National Fire Protection Association’s Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code (NFPA 58),
as may be amended, and thus shall not require a Zoning Permit .
      2)   Mechanical structures, such as air conditioners and generators,
shall be exempt from any Side or Rear Yard requirements and thus shall not
require a Zoning Permit . The same shall apply to any On-Site Battery Energy
Storage Systems qualifying as an Accessory Use and having an aggregate energy
storage capacity of six hundred kilowatt hours (600 kWh) or less thus rendering
the provisions of Section
2207 inapplicable to such an improvement.
   C)   No Accessory Structure shall exceed twelve (12) feet in Structure
Height unless it is Attached to, or located immediately adjacent to, an
Accessory Building , in which case it shall be permitted to comply with the
maximum Building  Height restrictions set forth in Section
1609.01.D.
   D)   Accessory Structures shall be subject to any applicable Lot Coverage
restrictions within this Resolution.
   E)   Accessory Structures two hundred (200) square feet in size and six (6)
or fewer feet in Height shall be exempt from conforming with this Zoning
Resolution, including 1609.02.A – D above, and subsequently shall not require a
Zoning Permit so long as the number of such sized Structure s on a Lot does not
exceed two (2). As such, any such-sized Structure established on a Lot that
already contains (2) exempted Accessory Structures shall be required to conform
with this Zoning Resolution and subsequently shall require a Zoning Permit as
set forth in Article
1 of this Resolution.
      1)   This exemption shall not be administered, construed, or interpreted
to permit a Use that is prohibited in any given Zoning District by this
Resolution.
      2)   This exemption shall not apply to any Use requiring Conditional Use
approval or any improvement meeting the definition of an Accessory Wall , Entry
Feature , Fence, Landing Pad/Strip , Private Utilities , Retaining Wall ,
Satellite Dish, Sign (including Billboards and Outdoor Advertising ), Small
Solar Facility , Sign , Small Wind Farm , or Swimming Pool . The preceding
shall not preclude an exemption otherwise granted by this Resolution.
1609.03   Unless otherwise stated, the following shall not be subject to this
Section and instead shall be regulated by standards found elsewhere within this
Zoning Resolution:
   A)   Fences, Accessory Walls, and Retaining Walls shall be regulated by
Section
1603.
   B)   Access Drives, Appurtenant Structure s, and Entry Feature s shall be
regulated by Section
1605.
   C)   Swimming Pool s shall be regulated by Section
1614.
   D)   Cluster Box Units shall be regulated by Section
1620.
   E)   Electric Vehicle Chargers shall be regulated by Section
1621.
   F)   Conditional Use s and certain other types of Use s shall be regulated
by Article
17.
   G)   Outdoor Advertising and Sign s shall be regulated by Article
18.
   H)   Parking lots and related components shall be regulated by Article
19.
   I)   Landscaping shall be regulated by Article
20.
   J)   Lighting fixtures shall be regulated by Article
21.
   K)   Utilities, Telecommunication Towers, Wind Farms , Solar Energy System
s, and Solar Facilities shall be regulated by Article
22.
   L)   Agriculture , Agritourism , and Farm Market s shall be regulated by
Article
23.
   M)   Temporary Use s, Temporary Structure s, and Portable Storage Unit s
shall be regulated by Article
24.
Section 1610: Outdoor Storage and Displays
1610.01   Unless otherwise authorized herein, Outdoor Storage of Junk Vehicles
for a period exceeding seven (7) days shall be prohibited on any property
located within a Residential Zoning District or Planned Residential Zoning
District .
1610.02   Outdoor Storage of recreational vehicles, boats, motor homes,
equipment, trailers, other vehicles other than passenger cars, and the like in
Residential and Zoning Districts and Planned Residential Zoning District s
shall be regulated by Article
19, Section
1906 of this Resolution.
1610.03   Outdoor Display of items for sale on residential properties that
are unrelated to Agriculture , Agritourism , Farm Market s, or Home Occupations
shall be regulated by Article
24, Sections
2403.03 and
2403.04.
1610.04   Unless otherwise authorized herein or via a valid Legal Approval ,
the following shall apply in all Non-Residential Zoning District s:
   A)   No trailer of any type, no boats, no motor homes, and no equipment of
any type shall be parked in front of the Front Building Line of any Lot . If a
Structure is located on the property or Lot , the Building Line shall be
considered to be the front wall of the Structure , even if said Structure is
located behind the minimum Building Line established by this Zoning Resolution
or the restrictions on the plat or deed. This standard shall not apply to any
such items for sale on a Lot containing a permitted Sales, Rental, and Service
Use.
   B)   All organic rubbish or waste materials shall be stored in airtight,
vermin-proof containers and subject to Section
1611.
   C)   No area approved as a designated parking space and/or drive aisle in an
applicable Legal Approval shall be utilized for Outdoor Storage except for
Temporary Use s and/or Temporary Structure s, including temporary storage due
to on-site construction or maintenance.
1610.05   Outdoor Storage occurring in conjunction with a non-exempt
Agricultural Type Use or Non-Residential Type Use shall be fully enclosed and
screened by an opaque Fence no less than six (6) feet in Height . This standard
shall not apply to any such items for sale on a Lot containing a permitted
Sales, Rental, and Service Use.
1610.06   Outdoor Storage and Displays shall not block any Streets , Right-of-
Way s, required parking spaces, required parking drive aisles, emergency access
routes, clear sight triangles, road or utility easements, Pedestrianway s, or
any other clearance zones that may be required by other governmental agencies.
If materials are placed along a Pedestrianway , five (5) feet of clearance
shall be maintained all times.
1610.07   Exterior lighting of any Outdoor Storage or Display area shall comply
with Article
21.
Section 1611: Nuisance s
1611.01   Any Building or Structure declared unfit for human habitation in any
Zoning District by the Board of Health or any Building or Structure in the
township declared insecure, unsafe, or structurally defective by the Township
Fire Department, the County Building Department or other authority responsible
under ORC 3781 for the enforcement of building regulations, shall be removed or
repaired to a safe and structurally sound condition. Enforcement shall be
accomplished through the procedures outlined in ORC 505.86 of the ORC , as may
be amended, and/or via any other legal remedies available to the Township.
1611.02   The following shall be prohibited and subsequently considered a
Nuisance unless otherwise found to occur in accordance with a valid Legal
Approval . Enforcement shall be accomplished through the public nuisance
procedures outlined in ORC 505.87 and 505.871, as may be amended, where
applicable, and/or via the zoning violation enforcement procedures set forth in
Section
116 of this Resolution. Other permissible legal remedies to address such
matters, including the filing of a Civil Complaint, may also be sought or
utilized.
   A)   The storage or accumulation of waste, trash, garbage, refuse, litter,
compost, recyclables, and other debris (including, without limitation,
discarded household goods, discarded commercial products, discarded building
materials, discarded industrial byproducts, discarded brush, discarded
vegetation, and other similar materials). Such items, when completely enclosed
within an appropriate container and placed at an assigned location for
regularly scheduled pick-up, shall not be considered a violation of this
standard.
   B)   The storage or accumulation of Junk , Junk Vehicles , vehicle parts,
and other similar debris. Outdoor Storage of inoperable, unlicensed, or unused
motor vehicles for a period exceeding seven (7) days shall not be considered a
violation of this standard, provided such vehicles are completely enclosed
within a Building so as not to be visible from any adjoining property or public
road .
   C)   Overgrown or unmaintained weeds, grasses, and/or vegetation that are
noxious and/or pose(s) a threat to public health, safety, or general welfare.
Section 1612: Objectionable Practices or Conditions
1612.01   There shall be no direct or sky-reflected glare from high-temperature
processes (e.g., combustion, welding, etc.) conducted on properties containing
an Agricultural or Non-Residential Type Use visible from any Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District .
1612.02   Erosion of private Off-Road Motorized Vehicle trails shall be
physically controlled and detained on-site in accordance with the standards and
regulations of Delaware County.
1612.03   Ultra-Light Vehicles or any aircraft shall be prohibited from taking
off or landing on property not otherwise operating as a lawful and approved
Aviation Facility and/or Landing Pad/Strip .
1612.04   The operation of any drone within Genoa Township shall comply with
all applicable standards and requirements of the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) as well as any other governmental agency having
jurisdiction over such matters.
1612.05   The operation of any autonomous or remotely controlled vehicles,
robots, and the like on private property within Genoa Township shall comply
with all applicable standards and requirements of any governmental agency
having jurisdiction over such matters.
1612.06   The cremation, burial/interment, and/or disposal of human remains on
a property (including water) not otherwise actively licensed and having valid
Legal Approval to conduct such an activity (e.g., Cemetery , Crematory, Funeral
Home, Mortuary , and the like) shall be prohibited. This prohibition shall
include the use of catafalques, mausoleums, and other similar types of
Structure s for such activity.
Section 1613: Hazardous Materials and Waste Disposal
1613.01   Highly flammable or explosive liquids, solids, or gases shall not be
stored in bulk above or below ground in any Residential or Planned Residential
District .
1613.02   The storage of hazardous or toxic materials shall not be permitted
without documented approval by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
1613.03   Materials or wastes which might cause fumes or dust, which constitute
a fire hazard, or which may be edible or attractive to rodents or insects shall
be stored outdoors only in closed containers constructed of impervious
material.
1613.04   No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a Lot in such form or
manner that they may be transferred off the Lot by wind, flood , or natural
causes or forces.
1613.05   A list of materials or products that could decompose by detonation
shall be provided to the Genoa Township Fire Department. Such materials shall
include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives including lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate, and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
Section 1614: Swimming Pool s and Water Impoundments
1614.01   Private accessory Swimming Pool s for Single-Family Dwelling s and
other similar Residential Type Uses may be permitted in any District, provided
the following provisions are met:
   A)   The pool shall be intended solely for the enjoyment of the occupants
and guests of the Principal Use of the property on which it is located.
   B)   The edge(s) of the Swimming Pool , exclusive of any adjacent pavement
or decking, shall not be located closer than ten (10) feet to any Lot Line and
may not encroach upon any required Front Yard or any required on-site
wastewater leaching areas.
   C)   Swimming Pool (s) shall be completely and securely walled and/or fenced
to prevent uncontrolled access from any Street and/or adjacent property. Any
such wall and/or Fence shall not be less than four (4) feet in Height , shall
be permanently affixed to the ground, shall comply with Section
1603, and shall be in good condition with a gate and lock.
   D)   Exterior lighting shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting
direct light upon any other property or any public Street .
1614.02   All other Swimming Pool s not regulated by Section
1614.01 herein shall comply with the following conditions and requirements:
   A)   The pool and Accessory Structures thereto, including the areas used by
bathers, shall not be closer than seventy-five (75) feet to any Lot Line .
   B)   The Swimming Pool and all areas used by bathers shall be walled or
fenced to prevent uncontrolled access by children from the street or adjacent
properties. Said Fence or Accessory Wall shall not be less than six (6) feet in
Height and maintained in good condition.
   C)   Loudspeakers, jukeboxes, public address systems, and electric
amplifiers shall be permitted only if the use of the same is solely for the
occupants of the Building , and only if the equipment is installed within the
Building and does not emit any noise or sound, that which by reason of volume,
pitch, frequency, intensity, duration, or nature annoys or disturbs the
comfort, peace, or health of a person of ordinary sensibilities. Any noise or
sound prohibited by this Section must be plainly audible at a distance of one
hundred (100) feet or more from the property from which the noise emanates to
become a prima facie violation of this Resolution.
   D)   Exterior lighting shall be installed in accordance with Article
21.
   E)   Off-Street parking shall be provided in accordance with Article
19.
1614.03   Swimming Pool s and any associated decking, patios, etc. shall be
subject to any applicable Lot Coverage restrictions within this Resolution.
1614.04   Maximum Height :
   A)   Swimming Pool s that are wholly or partially above ground shall not
exceed a Height of six (6) feet.
   B)   Accessory Buildings and Accessory Structures  Attached to, over, or on
top of a wholly or partially above-ground Swimming Pool or any associated
decking shall be subject to the regulations set forth in Section
1609.
1614.05   All Water Impoundments shall be constructed and developed so that
said impoundment(s) is/are set back at least fifty (50) feet from the Front Lot
Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line . This standard shall not
apply to Swimming Pool s, decorative ponds, lakes, or water features located
within designated Open Space areas of Planned Development s, or infrastructure
being provided to meet the requirements of any governmental entity as it
pertains to drainage, flood control, and/or stormwater management.
Section 1615: Sight Distance
1615.01   No Structure shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow on
any Corner Lot so as to create a sight impediment within seventy-five (75) feet
of the intersecting center lines of any two or more public Streets . In
determining if any sight impediment exists, in the absence of an official
determination by the Delaware County Engineer or an authorized representative
thereof, the Zoning Inspector or their designee, shall measure the sight
distance between the center lines of such Streets at a Height of three feet,
nine inches (3'9") above the actual grades of the Streets .
Section 1616: Exceptions, Modifications, and Interpretations of Height
Regulations
1616.01   Height limits stipulated elsewhere in this Zoning Resolution shall
not apply to:
   A)   Spires, belfries, cupolas, domes, bulkheads, elevator penthouses,
parapet walls, weather vanes, and other similar types of decorative and/or
functional architectural features that are customarily and generally erected on
top of, or adjacent to, the primary roof of a Building or Structure so long as
said feature does not project or extend more than four (4) feet above maximum
permitted Building or Structure Height .
   B)   Fire towers, cooling towers, grain elevators, gas holders, or other
similar types of safety and/or utilitarian Structure s; provided, however, that
they not occupy more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the area of the Lot and
are situated at a distance not less than twenty-five (25) feet in all parts
from every Lot Line .
   C)   Chimneys, roof stacks, and other similar types of ventilation features
customarily Attached to the side and/or top of a Structure except as stipulated
in Section
1616.02 herein.
   D)   Aerial Antennas, Satellite Dishes, Telecommunication Towers, and Wind
Farms as may be further specified in Article
22.
1616.02   With the exception of those items specified in Section
1616.01.B and
1616.01.D above, in no instance shall the Height of any Building , regardless
of roof type, exceed forty-five (45) feet when measured from the average grade
at the front of said Building to the highest point, inclusive of Solar Energy
Systems , Solar Facilities, chimneys, and the like.
1616.03   With the exception of those items specified in Section
1616.01 and
1616.02 above, in no instance shall the Height of any Structure that is not a
Building , regardless of roof type, exceed thirty-five (35) feet when measured
from its average grade to its highest point, inclusive of any Solar Energy
System , Solar Facility , or other architectural features.
1616.04   Solar Energy System and Solar Facility permitted Heights shall be
regulated by Article
22, Section
2206, but shall be subject to the provisions of
1616.02 and
1616.03 herein.
1616.05   Sign Height shall be regulated by the provisions set forth in Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
Section 1617: Dangerous Wild Animals
1617.01   No person within any District shall own, harbor, keep, breed, sell,
or import any dangerous wild animal, as defined and regulated by ORC 935.01(C),
as may be amended, and the Ohio Department of Agriculture , unless otherwise
exempted by said law or agency.
Section 1618: Home Occupations
1618.01   The following standards shall govern No-Impact Home Occupations
within Genoa Township.
   A)   The owner of the premises must reside in the Dwelling Unit used for the
Home Occupation .
   B)   No person or persons, other than the owners of the premises, shall
operate a Home Occupation .
   C)   Not more than one worker, exclusive of the owners, shall be employed in
a Home Occupation at any one time.
   D)   All Home Occupations shall be conducted entirely within the Dwelling
Unit, and the use of the Dwelling Unit for the Home Occupation shall be clearly
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants.
   E)   Not more than twenty percent (20%) or four hundred (400) square feet of
the gross Floor Area , whichever is less, of any Dwelling Unit shall be used
for a Home Occupation .
   F)   Home Occupations within an Accessory Building shall be considered a
Low-Impact Home Occupation and, as such, pursuant to Article
5, Section
506, permitted via a Conditional Use Permit obtained in accordance with
Sections
1618.02 and
1618.03 herein.
   G)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the Building or
premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such Home Occupation
other than one Sign , not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, non-
illuminated, and mounted flat against the wall of the Building in which the
Home Occupation is located.
   H)   There shall be no sale on the premises of commodities other than those
produced as a result of the Home Occupation .
   I)   No traffic shall be generated by such Home Occupation in greater volume
than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any need for
parking generated by the conduct of such Home Occupation shall meet the Off-
Street parking requirements as specified in this Resolution and shall not be
located in a required front yard .
   J)   Equipment or processes shall not be used in such Home Occupations that
create noise, vibrations, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable off the Lot . No equipment or process shall be used that creates
visual, audible, or electrical interference in any radio or television receiver
or computer terminal off the premises or causes fluctuations in voltage off the
premises.
   K)   There shall be no increased burden placed upon existing public services
provided to the residence because of a Home Occupation .
   L)   Outdoor Display or Storage of items, materials, etc. related to the
Home Occupation shall be prohibited unless otherwise permitted by and compliant
with Sections
2303.03 and
2303.04.
1618.02   A person may apply for a Conditional Use Permit for a Low-Impact Home
Occupation that does not comply with the requirements of
1618.01, subject to the applicable provisions of Articles
3 and
17.
1618.03   Home Occupations not complying with Section
1618.01 or having Conditional Use approval pursuant to Articles
3 and
17 of this Zoning Resolution shall be prohibited.
Section 1619: Residential Care Facilities
1619.01   A Residential Care Facility of five (5) or fewer residents (excluding
caregivers) shall be permitted in any District that permits Single-Family
detached Dwelling s. Such a facility shall obtain a Zoning Permit prior to
commencing the use of a property as a Residential Care Facility .
1619.02   Residential Care Facilities for six (6) or more residents (excluding
caregivers) shall only be permitted in certain Zoning Districts as further
prescribed in Article
5 of this Resolution and shall also comply with the standards set forth in
Article
17.
Section 1620: Cluster Box Units (CBUs)
1620.01   The following standards shall govern cluster box units (CBUs) but
shall be superseded by any conflicting permissions, prohibitions, or
requirements of the Genoa Township Fire Marshal, Genoa Township Road s
Supervisor, Delaware County, ODOT , United States Postal Service, and/or the
like:
   A)   CBUs shall be located outside of any public Street  Right-of-Way .
   B)   CBUs shall not be located along any Arterial Street .
   C)   CBUs shall be ADA -compliant.
   D)   CBUs located along a Street shall be serviced by three (3) on-street,
parallel parking spaces, one of which shall be accessible.
   E)   CBUs shall not be installed on the same side of the Street as fire
hydrants.
   F)   CBUs shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet from any Street
intersection.
   G)   CBUs shall be accessible via an accessible Pedestrianway that provides
non-motorized access to the Dwelling s and/or Building s which it serves.
   H)   The proposed locations of any CBU within a Planned Zoning District
shall be shown on the Final Development Plan .
   I)   CBU concrete pads required by the United States Post Office (USPS)
shall be constructed per approved specifications of the USPS as well as per the
Delaware County Engineer’s (DCEO) Design, Construction, and Surveying
Standards, as may be amended, including the current DCEO Supplemental
Specifications.
   J)   The following amenities may be provided in close proximity to a
proposed cluster box unit :
      1)   A roofed Structure to protect the units not exceeding twelve (12)
feet in Height .
      2)   A decorative pedestrian-scale light not exceeding twelve (12) feet
in Height .
      3)   A decorative bench.
      4)   A decorative waste receptacle.
1620.02   The placement and design of a cluster box unit shall be subject to
final approval by any entity referenced within Section
1620.01.
1620.03   A plan for maintenance and operation of the CBU and associated
amenities, including trash, shall be submitted to the Genoa Township Zoning
Inspector.
1620.04   Genoa Township shall not be responsible for the maintenance or
operations of any part of the cluster box unit or any associated Structure s or
amenities, including the concrete pad or the clearing of snow/ice from any
adjacent curbs, sidewalks, or ramps.
Section 1621: Electric Vehicle Chargers
1621.01   The following standards shall apply to any Electric Vehicle Charger
not otherwise erected within the confines of a Building enclosed with three (3)
or more walls.
   A)   Each port shall count as an individual charger.
   B)   Chargers and associated equipment shall not exceed eight (8) feet in
Height .
   C)   Chargers shall not be erected within, intrude upon, or interfere with
any Street  Right-of-Way or public Pedestrianway .
   D)   Electric Vehicle Chargers in Residential Zoning District s:
      1)   Chargers shall be set back at least twenty (20) feet from the Front
Lot Line .
      2)   Chargers shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from any Side or
Rear Lot Line .
   E)   Electric Vehicle Chargers in Non-Residential Zoning District s and not
otherwise a component of an Automobile Fueling/Charging Station :
      1)   Chargers shall be placed against the side or rear wall of the
Principal Building on the Lot or Tract or, alternatively, set back at least
fifty (50) feet from the Street  Right-of-Way .
      2)   Chargers shall only service parking spaces with dimensions of ten
(10) feet in width and twenty (20) feet in length.
      3)   Each parking space reserved for charger use shall be marked as such.
      4)   Chargers shall be protected by wheel stops or bollards.
ARTICLE 17: Conditional and Special Use Standards
Section 1701: Introduction
1701.01   Intent and Purpose. Due to various land Use s, by their nature,
having unique characteristics and/or the potential for relatively
disproportionate impact on their surroundings and/or the community at large,
Genoa Township finds it necessary to establish prescriptive and uniquely
tailored provisions for such Use s to supplement those found elsewhere in this
Zoning Resolution. Consequently, the provisions herein are being set forth with
the intention to protect, promote, and/or enhance public health, safety, and
general welfare. Furthermore, it is also the intent of Genoa Township to
establish such provisions in order to:
   A)   Preserve and extend the charm, beauty, and aesthetics existent in,
inherent to, or purposely cultivated to the benefit of, the primarily
residential character of the community;
   B)   Provide for well-thought-out, proper, and orderly utilization of land;
   C)   Promote development forms, patterns, and designs that encourage
authenticity, and which are in harmony with existing land Use s, Density ,
transportation facilities, traffic patterns, and neighborhoods;
   D)   Establish restrictive regulations that supplement those found elsewhere
within this Resolution to protect, and in certain instances, improve, the
quality of life and/or mobility of township residents and proprietors and, by
extension, improve community wellness;
   E)   Promote responsible development that is Context-Sensitive , Pedestrian-
Friendly , and environmentally conscious;
   F)   Minimize, curtail, and/or mitigate the effects certain land Use s may
have locally or regionally, especially as they relate to dust, light, noise,
odors, and hours of operation, to the greatest extent feasible, practical,
possible, and/or sensible;
   G)   Prevent the concentration of Use s in a manner that is detrimental to
the socioeconomics of the community while still providing for a diverse array
of residential, commercial, and/or industrial opportunities;
   H)   Discourage the overburdening of infrastructure;
   I)   Ensure compliance of related provisions with the Fair Housing Act
Amendments of 1988, effective March 12, 1989, which extend equal housing
opportunities to the handicapped, as well as place some minimal regulations
upon Residential Care Facilities in accordance with ORC 5119; and
   J)   Provide for consistency with the Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan .
Section 1702: General Requirements
1702.01   Any Use identified as being permitted by right with specified
standards in Article
5 of this Zoning Resolution shall be subject to the applicable provisions of
this Article in addition to those of any applicable Zoning District unless
otherwise expressly stipulated or modified elsewhere within this Resolution.
1702.02   Any Use identified as being permitted as a Conditional Use in Article
5 of this Zoning Resolution shall be subject to the applicable provisions of
this Article in addition to those of any applicable Zoning District , as well
as top any conditions or other requirements as determined by the Board of
Zoning Appeals in connection with the issuance of a Conditional Use Permit .
Use s permitted as Conditional Use s shall similarly be subject to Article
3 of this Zoning Resolution. Unless otherwise mandated within this Resolution,
the following shall serve as supplemental, advisory guidelines when reviewing a
Conditional Use application:
   A)   The Use should be designed, located, and proposed to be operated so
that public health, safety, general welfare, and public convenience will be
protected.
   B)   The Use should not result in the destruction, loss, or damage of
natural, scenic, or historic features of major importance.
   C)   The Use should be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so
that it does not cause substantial injury to the value of the property in the
area or neighborhood where it is located.
   D)   The Use should be compatible with adjoining development and the
proposed character of the Zoning District where it is located.
   E)   The Use should be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewers, and schools, or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed Use shall be able
to provide any such services adequately.
   F)   The Use should not create excessive additional requirements at public
cost for public facilities and services and should not be detrimental to the
economic welfare of the community. Public facilities and services include, but
are not limited to, fire and police protection or other Emergency Services ,
roadways, intersections, traffic lights, and sanitary and storm sewers.
   G)   Adequate Landscaping and screening should be provided.
   H)   Adequate off-street parking should be provided, and ingress and egress
should be designed so as to cause minimal interference with traffic on abutting
streets.
   I)   The Use should be compatible with the standards, objectives, and
policies of the Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan as amended and any revisions
thereof.
   J)   The Use should not involve uses, activities, processes, materials,
equipment, and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons,
property, or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic,
noise, smoke, fumes, glare, odors, or vibrations.
1702.03   Use s authorized by this Zoning Resolution within a Planned Zoning
District and/or Planned Development shall comply with any and all applicable
provisions within this Article in addition to those of any applicable Zoning
District . Consistent with Article
5, Sections
504.09 and
504.10 of this Resolution, any Structure , development, improvement, etc.
determined to have more than one Use shall be required to comply with the
applicable standards within this Article for every such Use .
1702.04   All other applicable regulations, standards, and provisions of this
Resolution, including Article
16 General Standards, Article
18 Sign Standards, Article
19 Parking Standards, and Article
21 Lighting Standards, shall apply in addition to those set forth in this
Article, subject to Article
1, Section
104 of this Zoning Resolution, unless otherwise expressly stated within this
Resolution.
1702.05   Any Use within this Article which specifically cites this Section
shall, if required, be actively licensed and/or permitted by the State of Ohio,
Delaware County, and/or the federal government. Proof of such shall be provided
prior to the issuance of any Legal Approvals unless the issuance of such
license(s) is dependent or contingent upon obtaining zoning approval first, in
which case proof shall be provided within thirty (30) days of the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy by the Delaware County Department of Building Safety.
Should such proof not be provided, any Legal Approvals for such Use shall
become void until the matter is resolved, and the Use shall be considered in
violation of this Zoning Resolution, thereby subject to Article
1, Section
116.
   A)   Evidence of compliance with all applicable regulations and permitting
requirements of the State of Ohio, Delaware County, and/or the federal
government shall be provided at the time of application. The suspension or
revocation of any such licenses or permits shall result in the automatic
suspension or revocation of Genoa Township Legal Approvals. The operation of
the Use during suspension or following revocation shall be considered a zoning
violation subject to enforcement pursuant to Article
1, Section
116.
   B)   If a change of ownership occurs, proof of transfer of permits or
licenses to the new owner shall be provided within ninety (90) days of the
change. Failure to do so shall render any Genoa Township Legal Approvals null
and void until the matter is resolved and shall similarly be considered a
zoning violation subject to enforcement pursuant to Article
1, Section
116.
1702.06   Any Use within this Article which specifically cites this Section
shall be required to comply with the following noise control provisions:
   A)   Facilities within five hundred (500) feet of any Residential or Planned
Zoning District shall not utilize any outdoor speaker systems between the
overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time.
   B)   Between the daytime hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time, no
noise shall exceed eighty decibels (80 db) at any Lot Line adjacent to the Lot
or Tract containing the Use .
   C)   Between the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time, no
noise shall exceed seventy decibels (70 db) at any Lot Line adjacent to the Lot
or Tract containing the Use .
   D)   Exceptions to the above shall be permitted for announcements necessary
to address immediate public safety concerns.
   E)   Unless otherwise authorized herein or as part of permitted Temporary
Use , outdoor speakers shall be permitted for emergency announcements and crowd
control. Outdoor speakers playing low-level music/audio as well as on-site
exterior video displays, including Electronic Message Center  Sign s, shall not
emit any noise or sound that by reason of volume, pitch, frequency, intensity,
duration, or nature annoys or disturbs the comfort, peace, or health of a
person of ordinary sensibilities located within a Residential or Planned
Residential Zoning District under normal conditions by a reasonable person. Any
noise or sound prohibited by this Section must be plainly audible at a distance
of one hundred (100) feet or more from the property from the noise emanates to
become a prima facie violation of this Resolution.
   F)   Events shall not be broadcast to the exterior of the Use unless the
broadcast is in compliance with Section
1702.06.F above.
   G)   This Section shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the First
Amendment guarantee of free speech. If any provision of this Section is found
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such finding must not
affect the validity of other provisions of this Article which can be given
effect without the invalid provision.
Section 1703: Amphitheaters, Arenas, and Auditoriums
1703.01   The provisions within this Section shall apply to Amphitheater s,
Arena s, and Auditorium unless otherwise specified.
1703.02   Site and Traffic Requirements.
   A)   Amphitheater s:
      1)   Such Use s situated on Lots or Tract s less than twenty (20) acres
in area shall have direct vehicular access to at least one (1) Arterial Street
.
      2)   Such Use s situated on Lots or Tract s twenty (20) acres or more in
area shall have direct vehicular access to one (1) Arterial Street and one (1)
Collector Street or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street .
   B)   Arena s:
      1)   The site shall have Frontage on and direct vehicular access to a
Major Arterial Street as further designated by the current Delaware County
Thoroughfare Plan .
      2)   Access to the development site shall be provided from Arterial
Street s and/or Freeway and shall not require the use of any Collector or Local
Street s.
   C)   Auditoriums :
      1)   The Lot containing any standalone Auditorium shall have Frontage on,
and direct vehicular access to, an Arterial Street or Collector Street as
further designated by the current Delaware County Thoroughfare Plan .
   D)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
   E)   The minimum required separation distance between access points to the
same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of the
Delaware County Engineer.
   F)   Ingress, egress, and internal traffic circulation shall be designed to
minimize congestion during peak usage of the facility.
   G)   A traffic report shall be submitted with the application for
development that identifies traffic control measures within the site and at the
points of ingress and egress warranted at peak usage of the facility.
   H)   In addition to Article
19, parking shall also comply with the following:
      1)   Where Off-Street Parking is arranged perpendicular to aisle ways
collecting traffic, a planting or landscaped island shall be required at the
intersection of interior collector aisle ways. Such an island shall begin
parallel with the last parking space or spaces at the end of a row of parking
spaces and not occupy space assigned to the aisle way itself.
1703.03   The location of Building s and Structure s, traffic circulation, and
parking areas shall be designed to provide adequate access for emergency
medical vehicles and firefighting equipment.
1703.04   Any such Use that offers the outdoor viewing of videos, motion
pictures, and the like shall also comply with the standards set forth within
this Article for Commercial and/or Private Recreational Uses .
1703.05   The front side of any motion picture screen within five hundred (500)
feet of a Residential Zoning District , Planned Residential District , or
adjacent Streets shall not face said Zoning Districts or Streets .
1703.06   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1703.07   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to these Use s.
1703.08   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500)
feet of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease
between the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This
provision shall not apply to incidental activities or routine maintenance of
such facilities.
1703.09   The private living areas and associated Open Spaces of all adjacent
residential properties shall be effectively screened from Off-Street Parking
Lots , Parking Facilities, and service areas, as well as from any other portion
of the development site that is actively used.
1703.10   The storage of equipment or materials in close proximity to the
Principal Use shall be permitted in a roofed Structure with either opaque
vertical walls or heavy vegetative planting around the perimeter that provides
an effective screen from adjacent properties.
1703.11   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1703.12   Facility entrances and exits (excluding emergency exits) facing a
Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall have a vestibule with
a second door to minimize noise.
1703.13   Off-Street loading areas shall be provided in accordance with the
following requirements; however, such provisions shall not apply to such Use s
that exclusively screen films:
 
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area Number of Berths Required
Under 30,000                    1
30,000 – 60,000               1
60,000+ - 100,000               2
100,000+ - 150,000              3
150,000+                        3 plus 1 additional for each 50,000 increments,
                                or portion thereof, above 150,000
 
1703.14   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
Section 1704: Amusement Parks or Resorts
1704.01   The provisions within this Section shall apply to both Amusement
Parks and Amusement Resorts unless otherwise specified.
1704.02   Such Use (s) shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1704.03   Minimum Lot Area or Tract size for such Use :
   A)   Amusement Park : Twenty-five (25) acres.
   B)   Amusement Resort : Fifty (50) acres.
1704.04   Vehicular Access.
   A)   Such Use s shall have one direct vehicular access per twenty (20) acres
of Lot or Tract size.
      1)   At least one such access point shall connect directly to an Arterial
Street .
      2)   The minimum required separation distance between access points on
the same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of
the Delaware County Engineer.
   B)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
1704.05   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1704.06   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1704.07   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas, other than those for livestock, shall be hard-surfaced with
asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or
another suitable alternative that is proven to protect surrounding properties
and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1704.08   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1704.09   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500)
feet of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease
between the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This
provision shall not apply to incidental activities or routine maintenance of
such facilities.
1704.10   A list of materials or products that could decompose by detonation
shall be provided to the Genoa Township Fire Department. Such materials shall
include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives including lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate, and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
1704.11   The standards set forth within this Article for the following Use s
shall also apply to this Section, where applicable, subject to Article
1, Section
104, unless otherwise specified. This provision shall not preclude the
standards of other applicable Use s from also being applied: Amphitheater ;
Animal Park ; Arena ; Campground ; Commercial and/or Private Recreation
Facility; Conference or Convention Center ; Golf Course ; Hotel/Motel ; Parking
Facility ; Recreation and/or Instructional Facility , Outdoor; Retail
Establishment , Large; Shopping Center , Regional; Short-Term Rental Complex ;
Stadium ; and Swimming Pool s.
Section 1705: Animal Park
1705.01   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1705.02   The Lot containing such Use shall be at least ten (10) acres in size.
1705.03   Vehicular Access.
   A)   Animal Park s situated on Lots or Tract s less than twenty (20) acres
in area shall have direct vehicular access to at least one (1) Arterial Street
.
   B)   Animal Park s situated on Lots or Tract s twenty (20) acres or more in
area shall have direct vehicular access to one (1) Arterial Street and one (1)
Collector Street or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street . The minimum
required separation distance of the latter shall be three hundred (300) feet
between access points, subject to the approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
   C)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
1705.04   Setback s.
   A)   Structure s, enclosures, pens, and any other facilities used to house
and/or treat animals, permanently or temporarily, shall be set back as follows:
      1)   Five hundred (500) feet from any adjacent Residential Zoning
District or Planned Residential Zoning District .
      2)   Two hundred and fifty (250) feet from any other Zoning District not
already specified herein.
   B)   Collected animal waste shall not be stored within five hundred (500)
feet of the perimeter of the subject Lot or Tract .
   C)   All other Structure s shall be set back at least one hundred (100) feet
from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
   D)   All parking areas shall be set back at least seventy-five (75) feet
from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1705.05   A solid decorative wall and/or decorative fence, eight (8) feet in
Height , shall be erected around a non-exhibit exterior area where animals are
kept, fed, trained, transferred, loaded/unloaded, and/or treated, permanently
or temporarily.
1705.06   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer, or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District, must be provided.
1705.07   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas, other than those for livestock, shall be hard-surfaced with
asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or
another suitable alternative that is proven to protect surrounding properties
and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1705.08   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1705.09   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500)
feet of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease
between the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This
provision shall not apply to incidental activities or routine maintenance of
such facilities.
Section 1706: Animal Shelters and Kennels
1706.01   These Use s shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1706.02   When such Use is established within an authorized Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District , the following shall apply:
   A)   The minimum required Lot Area for such Use established in an authorized
Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District , if permitted by Article
5, shall be five (5) acres.
1706.03   Building s in any Non-Residential Zoning District shall be set back
at least five hundred (500) feet from any Residential or Planned Residential
Zoning District and a minimum of two hundred (200) feet from any Side or Rear
Lot Line , regardless of zoning classification.
1706.04   Any area wherein animals exercise, relieve themselves, and/or are
otherwise temporarily kept shall be located on site. Any such area that is
located wholly or partially outdoors shall be fenced in and set back at least
one hundred and fifty (150) feet from any Principal Structure on an adjacent
Lot or Tract , measured from any point of the perimeter of such area.
   A)   Fencing shall be no more than five (5) and no more than eight (8) feet
in height, consist of waterproof material, and shall contain a self-latching
gate.
1706.05   Housing for animals kept overnight shall be located indoors within
the confines of a fully enclosed Building . For the purpose of this section,
covered decks, covered patios, covered Porch es, three-season rooms, and other
such spaces shall not be considered a fully enclosed Building .
1706.06   Collected animal waste shall not be stored within five hundred (500)
feet of the perimeter of the subject Lot or Tract .
1706.07   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas, other than those for the keeping of animals, shall be hard-
surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, permeable
pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to protect surrounding
properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1706.08   Facility entrances and exits (excluding emergency exits) shall have a
vestibule with a second door to minimize noise.
1706.09   Such Use s shall be subject to the provisions and restrictions of
Article
16, Section
1617.
1706.10   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 with the exception of exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting
fixtures, including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to
Single-Family Dwelling s.
1706.11   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1706.12   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth within this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
Section 1707: Antennas, Aerial or Satellite Dish
1707.01   Standards set forth within Article
22, Section 2203 for Aerial Antennas and Satellite Dish Antennas shall apply.
Section 1708: Auction House
1708.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Bulk Storage Warehouse
shall apply.
1708.02   If aircraft, watercraft, Heavy Equipment , Commercial Motor Vehicle
s, automobiles, Off-Road Motorized Vehicles , and/or recreational vehicles of
any type are auctioned, stored, maintained, and/or repaired on the property,
the standards set forth within this Article for Automobile Salvage shall also
apply, subject to Article
1, Section 104 of this Resolution. In such instances, reference to the word
Automobile shall also encompass all craft, equipment, and vehicles referenced
within this Section.
1708.03   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1709: Automobile Detail, Repair, or Salvage
1709.01   The provisions within this Section shall apply to Automobile Detail ,
Automobile Repair , and Automobile Salvage  Use s unless otherwise specified.
1709.02   Location.
   A)   Automobile Detail and Automobile Repair :
      1)   Such Use s shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an
Arterial Street unless it is in conjunction with an approved Automobile
Fueling/Charging Station on the same Lot .
   B)   Automobile Salvage :
      1)   Such Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access to an
Arterial Street .
      2)   The minimum size of the Lot or Tract (i.e., the site) housing such
Use shall be ten (10) acres.
1709.03   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1709.04   All detail, repair, and/or service work shall be done inside an
enclosed Building . No outdoor dismantling, wrecking, or storage of automotive
vehicles or parts shall be permitted unless otherwise expressly permitted by
this Resolution.
1709.05   A designated storage area that shall not include required parking for
the site shall be provided for vehicles that are on the site awaiting
detailing, service, or removal. Unless operating as an authorized Automobile
Salvage , all such vehicles shall be required to have a valid license plate.
1709.06   Garage and repair bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the
Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District unless screened or separated
from such by another Building or an opaque, decorative Fence eight (8) feet in
Height .
1709.07   Vehicles awaiting detailing, repairing, and/or servicing outside, as
well as wrecked vehicles and Junk Vehicles , shall be screened, and a view of
them from adjacent Lots and streets shall be obscured with a solid vegetative
landscape buffer or opaque fencing of at least six (6) feet in height.
1709.08   When vehicles are to be stored on the site awaiting detailing,
repairing, and/or servicing, there shall be a designated storage area provided
that shall not include required parking for the site. Such activity shall not
create traffic hazards or block traffic flow.
1709.09   Storage of new, used, or discarded parts or materials shall be within
a fully enclosed Structure except for tires, which shall be permitted to be
stored outside in accordance with the provisions of Article
16, Section
1610.
1709.10   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1709.11   No work defined as Automobile Repair shall be permitted to be
performed on a site housing an Auto Detail  Use unless otherwise in compliance
with all other terms of this Section and/or expressly authorized by a valid
Legal Approval .
1709.12   Automobile Detail and Automobile Repair  Use s shall not be permitted
to also operate as an Automobile Salvage  Use or a Junkyard . No derelict,
damaged, unlicensed vehicles, or Junk Vehicles shall be stored on the premises
for more than forty-eight (48) hours.
1709.13   The site shall be maintained in a manner so that it does not
constitute a public Nuisance as further described and regulated in Article
16, Section
1611 of this Zoning Resolution.
1709.14   No garbage, hazardous waste, Junk , organic waste, or petroleum
products shall be stored, buried, or disposed of on the site.
1709.15   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1709.16   Any operation meeting the definition of Vehicle Sales, Rental, and
Service shall adhere to the standards established for such Use within this
Article.
1709.17   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1709.18   The following provisions shall only apply to Automobile Salvage  Use
s:
   A)   No Junk shall be stored or accumulated, and no Structure shall be
constructed within one hundred (100) feet of any Dwelling or within fifty (50)
feet of any other Lot Line or public Street Right-of-Way .
   B)   The manner of storage of Junk shall be arranged in such a fashion that
aisles of a minimum width of twenty-five (25) feet between rows of Junk are
maintained in order to facilitate access for firefighting and prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water. The proposed layout shall be indicated on a
site plan.
   C)   The site shall be enclosed by an opaque, decorative Fence not less than
six (6) feet in height supported on steel posts with a self-latching gate.
   D)   Required fencing shall be supplemented with screening material that
creates a visual barrier that is at least eighty percent (80%) opaque.
Section 1710: Automobile Fueling/Charging Station
1710.01   Separation between Automobile Fueling/Charging Station :
   A)   No such Use shall be located within two-thousand five hundred (2,500)
radial feet of any other existing, approved, or proposed Automobile Fueling/
Charging Station on the same directional side of an Arterial , Collector , or
Local Street . This radius buffer shall also apply to all Lots located on
secondary Streets that intersect and/or abut an existing, approved, or proposed
Automobile Fueling/Charging Station .
   B)   Automotive Fueling/Charging Stations shall be limited to Arterial
Street s as designated by the Delaware County Thoroughfare Plan .
1710.02   The minimum Lot Area requirement for such an establishment shall be
half (0.5) an acre.
1710.03   Design Standards.
   A)   The Principal Building ’s front shall face whichever adjacent Street
has the most intense classification in the current Delaware County Thoroughfare
Plan , but under no circumstance shall it face a Freeway . The scale of
intensity shall be, from most to least: Major Arterial , Minor Arterial , Major
Collector , Minor Collector , Local Street , and Private Street .
   B)   The Principal Building shall be physically connected to any existing,
proposed, or required sidewalk and/or trail on the same Lot or Tract .
   C)   All pumps, chargers, canopies, tanks, vacuums, Accessory Uses , and
Accessory Structures shall be:
      1)   Located behind the Principal Building ; and
      2)   Set back at least fifty (50) feet from any Front Lot Line .
      3)   Set back at least ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
   D)   Electric Vehicle Chargers.
      1)   Each port shall count as an individual charger.
      2)   Chargers and associated equipment shall not exceed eight (8) feet in
Height .
      3)   Chargers shall not be erected within, intrude upon, or interfere
with any Street Right-of-Way or public Pedestrianway .
   E)   Outdoor sales displays shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet from
any Front Lot Line and at least twenty (20) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line
.
1710.04   Additional Use s.
   A)   Ancillary  Retail Establishment , Automobile Wash , Small Retail , and/
or Restaurant s shall be permitted as an additional Principal or Accessory Use
to an Automobile Fueling/Charging Station contrary to any conflicting
provisions of Article
5. These Use s shall be subject to any applicable provisions set forth within
this Article for such Use .
   B)   The following Use s shall not be expressly prohibited on the same site
as an Automobile Fueling/Charging Station unless such Use is permitted by the
Zoning District (s) to which the property is subject: Auction House ,
Automobile Detail , Automobile Repair , Automobile Salvage , Bulk Fuel Storage
, Commercial Motor Vehicle  Sales, Rental, and Service , Drive-Through
Facility, Large Retail , Outdoor Collection , Racetrack , Storage Yard ,
Transportation Services and Facilities , Truck Terminal , Private Utilities ,
or Vehicle Sales, Rental, and Service .
1710.05   The ingress and egress shall not create hazardous conditions or undue
congestion of traffic circulation in the immediate area.
1710.06   No outdoor dismantling, wrecking, or storage of automotive vehicles
or parts shall be permitted.
1710.07   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
prove to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1710.08   In addition to Article
21, lighting shall also conform to the following provisions:
   A)   All lighting installed to light the areas beneath the canopy must be
fully recessed within the subject canopy .
   B)   Interior illumination of the canopy  Structure shall be prohibited.
1710.09   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1710.10   Drive-through/up/in operations shall comply with the standards set
forth for Drive-Through Facilities in this Article.
1710.11   Any operation meeting the definition of Vehicle Sales, Rental, and
Service shall adhere to the standards established for such Use within this
Article.
1710.12   Architectural Guidelines. The following item(s) are not required, but
are strongly encouraged:
   A)   The design of fuel pump canopies and charging stations, including the
columns, should match the design and exterior Building materials of the
Principal Building .
Section 1711: Automobile Wash
1711.01   No such Use shall be located within two-thousand five hundred (2,500)
radial feet of any other existing, approved, or proposed Automobile Wash on the
same directional side of an Arterial , Collector , or Local Street . This
radius buffer shall also apply to all Lots located on secondary Streets that
intersect and/or abut an existing, approved, or proposed Automobile Wash .
1711.02   The Lot containing such Use shall be at least one (1) acre in size;
however, if an Automobile Wash is proposed in conjunction with any other Use ,
the minimum lot size shall be increased to two (2) acres.
1711.03   All washing facilities shall be included entirely within an enclosed
building, except that entrance and exit doors may be left open during the hours
of operation.
1711.04   Garage doors for the entry and exit of vehicles shall not face any
Street or Lot within the Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District
unless screened or separated from such by another Building or an opaque,
decorative Fence eight (8) feet in Height .
1711.05   Automobile Wash lanes, order boxes, menus, and service windows shall
be located to the side or rear of the Building unless such areas are adjacent
to a Lot within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District .
1711.06   A separate circulation drive shall be provided for passage around and
escape from the outermost Automobile Wash lane.
1711.07   Automobile Wash lanes shall be designed and located in a manner that
does not conflict with pedestrian or vehicular movement.
1711.08   Automobile Wash lanes shall be screened from view by Landscaping ,
grading treatments, architectural features, or a combination of the above. Such
items shall be located immediately adjacent to them or as close as otherwise
practical.
1711.09   A hard-surfaced exit drive not less than forty (40) feet in length
shall be provided between the exit doors and the Street.
1711.10   The following hard-surfaced, dust-free, off-street parking shall be
provided in accordance with the following:
   A)   Six (6) off-street waiting spaces for each car washing device, stall,
or bay, plus twelve (12) reservoir stacking spaces prior to the waiting area,
shall be provided.
      a)   If a payment/service kiosk is proposed, the waiting spaces shall be
placed between said kiosk and the washing device/stall/bay, while the reservoir
spaces shall be placed before (leading up to) said kiosk.
      b)   An egress lane from the waiting space area shall be provided to
provide vehicles with a means of exiting the queue prior to entering any wash
device/stall/bay.
   C)   Two (2) employee parking spaces for every three (3) employees shall be
provided.
   D)   Two (2) parking or pull-off areas per each device/stall exit shall be
provided for drying and hand finishing of vehicles. The placement of such areas
shall not cause existing traffic to become gridlocked.
   E)   Waiting and reservoir stacking spaces shall be placed to not interfere
with, impede, block, or intrude upon any other parking spaces, required or
otherwise, on the site.
   F)   Each individual waiting space, reservoir stacking space, and pull-off
area required herein shall be at least ten (10) feet wide and twenty (20) feet
long but are not otherwise required to adhere to the parking space design or
Landscaping requirements of Article
19 (e.g., signage, striping, plantings).
1711.11   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1711.12   Speakers shall be set back at least two hundred (200) feet from any
Lot located within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District . This
requirement may be reduced to one hundred (100) feet if the speaker is located
on the side of the Building or Structure that is opposite of such Zoning
District
1711.13   Vacuuming and/or steam cleaning equipment may be located outside but
shall not be placed in any Front Yard or in any Yard adjoining a Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District . Mechanical drying equipment and/or hand
drying of motor vehicles must be performed on the premises.
1711.12   Architectural Guidelines. The following item(s) are not required, but
are strongly encouraged:
   A)   Canopies erected over drive-through lanes should be architecturally
compatible with the Principal Building (s) on site.
Section 1712: Aviation Facility
1712.01   The proposed facility shall meet the appropriate standards and
requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration, Ohio Department of
Transportation, Ohio State Highway Patrol, and/or any other governmental agency
having jurisdiction over such matters.
1712.02   The facility, in accordance with the standards and requirements of
the Federal Aviation Administration, will not require the Height s of Structure
s on adjacent land to be less than the Height limit specifically prescribed for
the Zoning District in which such land is situated.
1712.03   All runways, landing pads, and service aprons shall have a dustless
surface.
1712.04   Areas used by aircraft under its own power shall be set back a
distance of:
   A)   Two hundred (200) feet from any Lot Line .
   B)   One thousand (1,000) feet from any: Dwelling within a Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District ; other Aviation Facility ; Cemetery ,
Crematorium , Funeral Home , or Mortuary ; Cultural Center ; Day Care Centers
(all types); Educational Institutions (grades 12 or lower); Hospital ; Natural
Resource Protection area; Public library or Museum ; Public park or playground;
or Religious Establishment .
   C)   One thousand (1,000) feet from any Planned Residential or Residential
Zoning District on the approach and departure ends of the runway/landing pad.
1712.05   Building s, including hangars, or other Structure s shall be set back
at least two hundred (200) feet from any Lot Line .
1712.06   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from all Lot Lines .
1712.07   No parking of vehicles or aircraft shall be allowed within one
hundred (100) feet of any Lot Line .
1712.08   Hangars, loading bays, garages, and repair bays shall not face any
Street or Lot within the Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District
unless separated from such by another Building or screened in accordance with
Sections
2003 and
2004.
1712.09   A Fence not less than six (6) feet in height, with a lockable gate(s)
shall be provided around the perimeter of such facility and shall be designed
and installed to effectively control access to such area.
1712.10   Landscaping and buffering otherwise required by this Zoning
Resolution shall not be required if it can be demonstrated and documented that
such plantings would create a hazard by interfering with flight paths,
visibility, clearances, and/or other such safety matters.
1712.11   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1712.12   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 except for any lighting required by the Federal Aviation Administration or
any other governmental agency having authority over such matters.
1712.13   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1713: Bed and Breakfast
1713.01   Such facilities shall only be permitted in a Planned Residential
District when they are listed as an expressly permitted Use in a specifically
designated and authorized location within an approved Planned Development . In
such instances, each bedroom shall be counted as a Dwelling for the purposes of
calculating the Density (Gross or Net) of the Planned Development .
1713.02   Unless expressly approved as part of Planned Development in a Planned
Residential District, the Lot containing the facility shall have Frontage on
and direct vehicular access to an Arterial Street or Collector Street as
further designated by the current Delaware County Thoroughfare Plan .
1713.03   The owner and/or manager of the facility shall reside on the
premises.
1713.04   The number of bedrooms available or used for lodging in any Building
shall be limited to no more than five (5).
1713.05   Service meals shall be limited to only overnight guests of the
facility.
1713.06   Overnight guests shall not occupy the facility for more than thirty
(30) consecutive days.
1713.07   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 except for exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting fixtures,
including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to Single-Family
Dwelling s.
1713.08   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth within this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
Section 1714: Biodiesel, Biologic, and Biomass Use s
1714.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Landfill /Incinerator
shall apply to the following Use s: Biodiesel Production , Biologically Derived
Methane Gas , and Biomass Energy Production .
Section 1715: Breweries, Distilleries, and Wineries
1715.01   Reserved.
Section 1716: Boarding House
1716.01   Such facilities shall only be permitted in a Planned Zoning District
when they are listed as an expressly permitted Use in a specifically designated
and authorized location within an approved Planned Development . In such
instances, each bedroom shall be counted as a Dwelling for the purposes of
calculating the Density (Gross or Net) of the Planned Development .
1716.02   Unless expressly approved as part of Planned Development in a Planned
Zoning District , the Lot containing the facility shall have Frontage on and
direct vehicular access to an Arterial Street or Collector Street as further
designated by the current Delaware County Thoroughfare Plan .
1716.03   The owner and/or manager of the facility shall reside on the
premises.
1716.04   The number of residents shall not exceed ten (10) individuals at any
one time, including those specified in Section
1716.03.
1716.05   Service meals shall be limited to residents only.
1716.06   A loading/unloading area separate from any designated parking areas
shall be provided so that the parking of vehicles being used for such purpose
can occur adjacent to the Building without blocking any parking spaces,
ingress/egress points, emergency access ways, mail delivery locations, or waste
collection service areas.
1716.07   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 with the exception of exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting
fixtures, including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to
Single-Family Dwelling s.
1716.08   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth in this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
Section 1717: Building Materials Sales and Storage
1717.01   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street unless in conjunction with a Retail operation.
1717.02   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1717.03   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1717.04   All storage that is not totally enclosed within a Building shall be
fully enclosed with a secure and opaque Fence and/or wall standing eight (8)
feet in Height .
1717.05   Stored materials shall not project from or be visible beyond the top
of the enclosure required herein.
1717.06   Where Outdoor Storage is located adjacent to a Residential or Planned
Residential District ; there shall be planted along the outside face of the
required screening evergreen trees adhering to the provisions of Section
2006 at thirty (30) foot intervals.
1717.07   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1717.08   A list of materials or products that could decompose by detonation
shall be provided to the Genoa Township Fire Department. Such materials shall
include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives including lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate, and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
1717.09   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1718: Bulk Fuel Storage
1718.01   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
1718.02   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1718.03   The fuel storage area shall be capable of containing at least one and
a half (1 ½) times the amount of the largest storage tank.
1718.04   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1718.05   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1718.06   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1718.07   A list of materials or products that could decompose by detonation
shall be provided to the Genoa Township Fire Department. Such materials shall
include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives including lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate, and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
1718.08   An explicit plan for emergency procedures, fire prevention, and
containment shall be provided.
Section 1719: Campground
1719.01   In the case of a camp or campground in which multiple units,
including tents, travel trailers, and other forms of living accommodations, are
placed on one site, a twenty-five (25) foot buffer area shall be required to
separate commonly accessed camping areas to provide for a mud-free, dust-free
condition, and shall be designed for safe and convenient access to camping
spaces and to facilities for common use by the occupants. Direct access to
individual camping spaces from public Streets shall not be permitted.
1719.02   All camps and campgrounds shall comply with all applicable
regulations of the State of Ohio, including, but not limited to, regulations
covering food service, water supply, sewage disposal, bathing places, vector
control, toilet facilities, sanitary stations, and garbage disposal.
1719.03   Vacation cottages, rental cabins, and other Dwelling s with permanent
foundations shall comply with the minimum Lot Area and associated dimensional
standards of the Zoning District in which they are located.
1719.04   Pumps, including those for fuel, wastewater, and/or greywater, shall
be set back at least fifty (50) feet from any Lot Line .
1719.05   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1719.06   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas, other than those for livestock, shall be hard-surfaced with
asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or
another suitable alternative that is proven to protect surrounding properties
and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1719.07   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 except for exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting fixtures,
including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to Single-Family
Dwelling s.
1719.08   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1719.09   Commercial and/or Private Recreational Facilities , Commercial
Stables /Riding Academies , Event Facilities , Private Educational Institution
s, Recreation and/or Instructional Facilities , Religious Establishment s, and
Swimming Pool s shall comply with the provisions set forth for such Use (s)
within this Article.
Section 1720: Cashing and/or Lending Business
1720.01   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1720.02   Cashing and/or Lending Business es are permitted only in the Zoning
Districts expressly specified within this Zoning Resolution and shall be
subject to the following restrictions:
   A)   Cashing and/or Lending Business es shall not be permitted within one
thousand (1,000) feet, as measured from the closest Lot Line of each Use ,
unless otherwise specified, of any: Dwelling within a Residential or Planned
Residential Zoning District ; other Cashing and/or Lending Business ; Cemetery
, Crematorium , Funeral Home , or Mortuary ; Cultural Center ; Day Care Centers
(all types); Educational Institutions (grades 12 or lower); Hospital ; Natural
Resource Protection area; Public library or Museum ; Public park or playground;
or Religious Establishment .
   B)   Only one (1) Cashing and/or Lending Business is permitted in a single
Structure . No co-location of such Use s shall be permitted within one (1)
Structure .
Section 1721: Cemetery
1721.01   The site shall have direct access to an Arterial or Collector Street
.
1721.02   Any new Cemetery shall be located on a site containing twenty (20) or
more acres and adjacent to or part of an existing Cemetery or Religious
Establishment .
1721.03   Interment shall not be within three hundred (300) feet of a Dwelling
unless the entire area of land appropriated is a necessary addition to or
enlargement of a Cemetery already in use, as further provided in ORC 1721.03,
as may be amended.
1721.04   A mausoleum or catafalque shall not be within three hundred (300)
feet of any Lot Line adjacent to a Residential Type  Zoning District .
1721.05   Crematoriums or other similar types of structures, as well as Funeral
Homes and Mortuaries , shall comply with the standards set forth within this
Article for such Use s.
1721.06   Every Cemetery company or association shall cause a plat of its
grounds and of the lots laid out by it to be made and recorded or filed in the
offices of the Delaware County Recorder in accordance with ORC 1721.09, as may
be amended.
1721.07   All required yards shall be landscaped and maintained in good order.
A plan for perpetual care of the grounds shall be required.
1721.08   All equipment and materials shall be properly stored within a
Structure when not in use.
1721.09   Parking areas and drive aisles shall be designed to accommodate the
queuing of vehicles for processions on site. Vehicles shall not be permitted to
queue or park on a Street.
1721.10   Parking areas and drive aisles shall be designed so that the queueing
of vehicles for a procession does not impede emergency vehicles from accessing
the site or any area or Structure within the site.
1721.11   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1721.12   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1722: Clubhouse
1722.01   Clubhouses in Residential or Planned Residential Zoning Districts
shall only be permitted when they are subsidiary to the primary residential Use
of the property.
1722.02   Restaurant shall be a permitted accessory Use of any Clubhouse
established in conjunction with a Country Club or Golf Course .
1722.03   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1722.04   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1722.05   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth in this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
Section 1723: Commercial and/or Private Recreation Facility
1723.01   Minimum Lot Area or Tract size for such Use shall be no less than
five (5) acres.
1723.02   Vehicular Access.
   A)   Any such Use situated on Lots or Tract s less than twenty (20) acres in
area shall have direct vehicular access to at least one (1) Arterial Street .
   B)   Any such Use situated on Lots or Tract s twenty (20) acres or more in
area shall have direct vehicular access to one (1) Arterial Street and one (1)
Collector Street or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street . The minimum
required separation distance of the latter shall be three hundred (300) feet
between access points, subject to the approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
1723.03   Setback s:
   A)   Front: 100 feet for Structure s and 75 feet for parking.
   B)   Rear: 75 feet.
   C)   Side: 75 feet.
   D)   All Structure s and playing fields for outdoor recreation shall be
located at least two hundred (200) feet and drives and parking areas shall be
at least fifty (50) feet from any adjacent Lots where Dwelling s are a
permitted Use ; and
   E)   Where a landscaped screen is not already required adjacent to another
Lot , one (1) deciduous tree shall be provided for every forty (40) feet of
parking lot boundary and loading/unloading area, plus a three (3) foot average
Height continuous planting, hedge, Fence, Accessory Wall , or earth mound. The
same parking lot perimeter screening shall also be provided adjacent to the
public Right-of-Way . At least one (1) tree per five thousand (5,000) square
feet of parking area shall be provided within the parking lot.
1723.04   All outdoor playing fields, courts , and other similar outdoor
recreation facilities must be secured at night to prevent unauthorized access.
1723.05   Exterior lighting shall conform to the provisions of Article
21.
1723.06   No more than eighty percent (80%) of the Lot or Tract area may
comprise of outdoor fields, courts , rinks, and the like.
1723.07   A minimum eight (8) foot high landscaped screen or combination mound
and plant material with a ninety percent (90%) year-round opacity shall be
provided on any side of the site containing an outdoor amenity that is adjacent
to Lots within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District . If a
mound is used, it shall be constructed with no more than a 4 to 1 slope. Mounds
shall not be constructed to restrict the natural flow of surface water to or
from the site.
1723.08   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1723.09   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1723.10   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas, other than those for livestock, shall be hard-surfaced with
asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or
another suitable alternative that is proven to protect surrounding properties
and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1723.11   Ranges and courses used for shooting and throwing sports (e.g., guns,
bows, darts, axes, knives, paintball, airsoft, archery tag, laser tag, etc.)
shall be further subject to the following:
   A)   Such facilities shall comply with any applicable provisions of ORC
1533.84, Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) 1501-3, and any other pertinent state
or federal regulations.
   B)   When such facilities are located wholly or partially outdoors, they
shall also comply with the following standards:
      1)   Such facilities shall be located no less than three-thousand five
hundred (3,500) feet, measured Lot Line to Lot Line , from any: Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District ; Cemetery , Crematorium , Funeral Home ,
or Mortuary ; Cultural Center ; Day Care Centers (all types); Educational
Institutions; Hospitals; Nature Resource Protection Area; Public library or
Museum ; Public park or playground; Religious Establishment s; or other such
facility.
      2)   Such facilities shall be set back at least five hundred (500) feet
from the perimeter Lot Line of the Lot or Tract on which it is situated.
      3)   Such facilities shall be generally oriented north to south to
minimize interference from sun glare. The aforementioned shall not apply to
facilities used only for paintball, airsoft, and/or laser tag.
      4)   Such facilities shall be enclosed by a minimum six (6) foot tall
fence.
      5)   Such facilities shall be accessible only via controlled access
points via lockable gates.
      6)   Such facilities shall contain backstops at least three (3) feet in
thickness within the enclosed perimeter behind each target area to safely
contain errant shots and ricochets. This standard shall not apply to facilities
used only for paintball, airsoft, and/or laser tag.
      7)   Unless essential to safe operations, necessary to provide Emergency
Services , and/or required by law, the following shall not be located within
nine hundred (900) feet of such facility: Building s; Street s; parking lots;
service drives; Pedestrianway s; pedestrian gathering areas; fields, courts ,
rinks, and the like; Structure s, tanks, or containers containing explosive or
highly combustibles materials, including ammunition; above ground utility
infrastructure; or any other such facility.
         a)   Facilities exclusively used for paintball, airsoft, and/or laser
tag may reduce this required set back to five hundred (500) feet.
      8)   The presence and perimeter of such facilities shall be communicated
by the posting of ten-inch by fourteen-inch (10” x 14”) Sign s clearly
identifying the area as a shooting range at intervals not less than one hundred
(100) feet from one another.
      9)   All targets shall be constructed of material that generally does not
shatter.
      10)   Alternative designs and/or layouts recognized as safe and
acceptable by a state or federal agency may also be permitted. Proof and
documentation of such shall be provided prior to approval.
1723.12   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1723.13   Swimming Pool s shall comply with the provisions set forth for such
Use (s) within this Article.
Section 1724: Community or Cultural Centers
1724.01   The following standards shall apply only to Community Centers:
   A)   Community Centers – All
      1)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
      2)   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards
set forth within this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
   B)   Community Center – Non-Residential
      1)   Unless expressly approved as part of a Planned Development in a
Planned Zoning District , the Lot containing any standalone Community Center
shall have Frontage on and direct vehicular access to an Arterial Street or
Collector Street as further designated by the current Delaware County
Thoroughfare Plan .
         a)   The minimum required separation distance between access points on
the same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of
the Delaware County Engineer.
      2)   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
   C)   Community Center – Residential
      1)   Loading bays shall not face any Lot containing a Dwelling unless
separated from such by another Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1724.02   The following standards shall apply only to Cultural Centers:
   A)   Unless expressly approved as part of a Planned Development in a Planned
Zoning District , the Lot containing any standalone Cultural Center shall have
Frontage on and direct vehicular access to an Arterial Street or Collector
Street as further designated by the current Delaware County Thoroughfare Plan .
      1)   The minimum required separation distance between access points on
the same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of
the Delaware County Engineer.
   B)   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
   C)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1724.03   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to all such Use s.
1724.04   If a Religious Establishment is proposed as part of the Use , the
Standards set forth in this Article for Religious Establishment s shall apply.
Section 1725: Composting, Recycling Collection, and Waste Transfer Facilities
1725.01   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1725.02   Such Use s shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
   A)   The Street providing access to such Use shall not traverse through a
Planned Residential Zoning District or Residential Zoning District .
   B)   Driveway access shall be limited to a single two-way or two single one-
way driveways from each Street on which access is permitted. Shared access with
adjacent properties is encouraged.
   C)   All driveways, both exterior and interior, as well as exterior storage
areas/pads and Off-Street Parking Lot s shall be paved with asphaltic concrete,
Portland cement concrete pavement, or permeable pavement. Gravel shall not be
permitted.
1725.03   Such Use s shall be located at least one thousand (1,000) feet from
any adjoining Residential Type Use , Planned Residential Zoning District , or
Residential Zoning District .
1725.04   A fifty (50) foot landscape buffer shall be provided around the
entire perimeter of the Lot or Tract . Landscaping shall be provided in
accordance with Article
20.
1725.05   Loading, unloading, storage, compaction, and related activities shall
be conducted within a fully enclosed Building .
1725.06   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1725.07   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1725.08   A description of the nature, character, logistics, timing, duration,
and impacts of the proposed operation, including:
   A)   The location of areas on site which will be utilized for storage of
materials and/or waste, as well as the manner in which storage shall occur.
   B)   The location of any facilities that will be utilized for the
processing, loading, and/or transportation of materials or waste.
   C)   How lighting and/or glare will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare. Outdoor
lighting, if any, shall be shielded and/or reflected away from adjoining
properties.
   D)   How dust and/or debris will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
   E)   How noise and/or vibrations will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
   F)   How fumes and/or odors will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
   G)   How diminution and pollution of air, land, and/or water, including
above and below ground water supplies, will be prevented to the greatest extent
possible to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
1725.09   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1726: Concrete or Asphalt Batch Plant
1726.01   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
1726.02   If materials are to be stored, they shall be screened sufficiently
from adjacent properties and the public Right-of-Way .
1726.03   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1726.04   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1726.05   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1726.06   All batch plants (permanent or temporary) shall have an effective
dust collection system.
1726.07   Wheel washers or other means of cleaning trucks/vehicles before
entering public Streets shall be provided.
1726.08   Batch plants shall have a sediment pond before wash-out water is
discharged into any waterway if allowed and approved by the Delaware County
Engineer and/or the State of Ohio.
Section 1727: Conference or Convention Center
1727.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Arena shall apply.
Section 1728: Contractor’s Yard
1728.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Building Materials Sales
and Storage shall apply.
Section 1729: Correctional Facility
1729.01   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1729.02   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street , but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct
access to an Arterial Street .
1729.03   The Lot containing such Use shall be at least ten (10) acres in size.
1729.04   Correctional Facilities are permitted only in the Zoning Districts
expressly specified within this Zoning Resolution and shall be subject to the
following restrictions:
   A)   Correctional Facility  Structure s shall not be permitted within one
thousand (1,000) feet, as measured from the closest Lot Line of each Use ,
unless otherwise specified, of any: Dwelling within a Residential or Planned
Residential District; other Correctional Facility ; Cemetery , Crematorium ,
Funeral Home , or Mortuary ; Cultural Center ; Day Care Centers (all types);
Educational Institutions (grades 12 or lower): Hospital ; Natural Resource
Protection Area; Public library or Museum ; Public park or playground;
Religious Establishment s; or Transportation Services and Facilities .
1729.05   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1729.06   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1729.07   Vehicle repair, service, and/or maintenance facilities shall comply
with the standards set forth within this Article for Vehicle Sales, Rental, and
Service .
1729.08   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1729.09   The Lot or Tract containing a Correctional Facility shall be screened
in the following manner:
   A)   A continuous row of evergreen trees shall be planted in a linear manner
around the entire perimeter of the developed portion(s) of the site pursuant to
Section
2006.
   B)   A solid masonry wall eight (8) feet in Height shall be erected around
the perimeter of the developed portion(s) of the site, but no closer than six
(6) feet to the evergreen trees required herein.
1729.10   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 with the exception of lighting necessary to monitor the security of the
grounds.
Section 1730: Country Club
1730.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Commercial and/or Private
Recreation shall apply.
Section 1731: Crematoriums and Funeral Homes/Mortuaries
1731.01   The following standards shall apply only to Crematoriums:
   A)   Facilities shall only be permitted in conjunction with a permitted
Cemetery or Funeral Home/Mortuary .
   B)   Crematorium shall not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of
any Lot Line .
   C)   All other applicable standards set forth within this Article for
Cemetery shall apply.
1731.02   The following standards shall apply to Funeral Homes and Mortuaries :
   A)   The site shall have direct access to an Arterial or Collector Street .
   B)   All business-related vehicles, other than standard passenger vehicles,
shall be within an enclosed Building when not in Use .
   C)   Parking areas and drive aisles shall be designed to accommodate the
queuing of vehicles for processions on site. Vehicles shall not be permitted to
queue or park on a Street.
   D)   Parking areas and drive aisles shall be designed so that the queuing of
vehicles for a procession does not impede emergency vehicles from accessing the
site or any area or Structure within the site.
1731.03   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004. This provision shall not apply to porte-cocheres utilized during
services.
1731.04   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1731.05   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1732: Data Centers
1732.01   Data Centers are permitted only in the Zoning Districts expressly
specified within this Zoning Resolution and shall be subject to the following
location restrictions:
   A)   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street , but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct
access to an Arterial Street .
   B)   Data Centers shall not be permitted within one thousand (1,000) feet,
as measured from the closest Lot Line of each Use , unless otherwise specified,
of any: Dwelling within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District :
other Data Centers; Cemetery , Crematorium , Funeral Home , or Mortuary ;
Cultural Center ; Day Care Centers (all types); Educational Institutions
(grades 12 or lower); Hospital ; Hotel/Motel ; Natural Resource Protection
area; public library or museum ; public park or playground; or Religious
Establishment .
1732.02   Building Size and Lot Coverage .
   A)   No Building on the subject Lot /Tract shall exceed twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet in size.
   B)   Total land occupancy by all Building s and Impervious Surfaces shall
not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the Lot /Tract .
1732.03   The perimeter of the Lot or Tract containing such Use shall be
screened in accordance with Section
2003.
1732.04   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1732.05   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1732.06   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1733: Day Care Centers
1733.01   Day Care Center Establishments .
   A)   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
   B)   There shall be an outdoor play area of sixty (60) square feet or more
per child using such space at any one time.
      1)   Such play area shall be enclosed with a chain link Fence or its
equivalent in strength and protective character to a Height of five (5) feet to
control the accessibility of children to adjoining hazardous conditions such as
Streets , ponds, adjacent yards, etc.
   C)   A drop-off/pick-up area separate from any designated parking areas
shall be provided so that the parking of vehicles being used for such purpose
can occur adjacent to the Building site without requiring children to walk
through a parking lot or the blocking of any parking spaces, ingress/egress
points, emergency access ways, mail delivery locations, or waste collection
service areas.
1733.02   Standards set forth within this Article for Day Care Center
Establishments shall apply for any such Use not otherwise operated as an in-
home facility.
1733.03   Standards set forth within this Article for Day Care Center
Establishments shall apply for any such Use not otherwise operated as an in-
home facility.
1733.04   Architectural Guidelines. The following item(s) are not required, but
are strongly encouraged:
   A)   The Building occupied by the Use should be compatible with neighborhood
Structure s in terms of dimension, size, and architecture.
Section 1734: Donation Center
1734.01   Loading/unloading areas shall be set back at least one hundred (100)
feet from any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District .
1734.02   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1734.03   All donated goods shall be stored in a completely enclosed Structure
.
Section 1735: Drive-Through Facilities
1735.01   All Drive-Through Facilities shall comply with the following:
   A)   Drive-through lanes, order boxes, menus, and service windows shall be
located on the non-Street-facing side (or rear) of Building s unless such areas
are adjacent to a Lot within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning
District .
   B)   No more than two (2) drive-through lanes shall be permitted unless the
associated Principal Use is a Financial Institution , in which case three (3)
drive-through lanes shall be permitted.
   C)   A separate circulation drive shall be provided for passage around and
escape from the outermost drive-through lane.
   D)   Drive-through lanes shall be designed and located to not conflict with
pedestrian or vehicular movement.
   E)   Five (5) reservoir stacking spaces shall be provided per drive-through
lane. Said spaces shall not encroach into any other crosswalks, sidewalks,
drive aisles, parking spaces, stacking spaces, and/or the like.
   F)   Speakers shall be set back at least two hundred (200) feet from any Lot
located within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District . This
requirement may be reduced to one hundred (100) feet if the speaker is located
on the side of the Building or Structure that is opposite to such Zoning
District .
   G)   Drive-through lanes shall be screened from view by Landscaping ,
grading treatments, architectural features, or a combination of the above. Such
items shall be located immediately adjacent to them or as close as otherwise
practical.
   H)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1735.02   Restaurant s and Retail Establishment s that also function as Drive-
Through Facilities shall adhere to the following provisions in addition to
Section
1735.01 herein.
   A)   Such Use s shall only be permitted in conjunction with a Community
Shopping Center or a Regional Shopping Center , with vehicular access only
being provided by the internal circulation network of said Shopping Center .
   B)   All canopy lighting must be fully recessed within said canopy .
   C)   Vehicular and pedestrian connectivity must be provided to any adjacent
Lots .
   D)   Any outdoor seating provided must be separated and screened from any
adjacent parking lot, Street , or driveway with fencing and a continuous row of
shrubs.
1735.03   Architectural Guidelines. The following item(s) are not required, but
are strongly encouraged:
   A)   Canopies erected over drive-through lanes should be architecturally
compatible with the Principal Building (s) on site.
Section 1736: Dry-Cleaning Plant
1736.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Heavy Manufacturing shall
apply.
Section 1737: Dwelling , Accessory
1737.01   Accessory Dwelling s shall only be established on Lots that are one
(1) acre or greater in size. This standard shall not apply to Accessory
Dwellings established and operating in conjunction with a Religious
Establishment .
1737.02   The number of Accessory Buildings containing an Accessory Dwelling
shall be limited to one (1) per Lot or Tract .
1737.03   Only one (1) Accessory Dwelling shall be permitted within an
Accessory Building .
1737.04   An Accessory Dwelling may comprise up to one hundred percent (100%)
of an Accessory Building .
1737.05   The Floor Area of an Accessory Dwelling shall not exceed the Floor
Area of the principal Dwelling it is accessory to. This standard shall not
apply to Accessory Dwellings established and operating in conjunction with a
Religious Establishment .
1737.06   Accessory Buildings containing an Accessory Dwelling shall comply
with all provisions established in Section
1609 as well as all other standards applicable to the Zoning District in which
it is located. In instances of conflict, the provisions within this Section
shall prevail.
1737.07   Accessory Dwellings shall not be permitted in any Accessory Structure
exempted from zoning control in Section
1609.01.
Section 1738: Dwelling (s), Live/Work or Row
1738.01   The following standards shall apply to Live/Work Dwellings :
   A)   Where permitted in Straight Zoning Districts , the minimum required Lot
Area for the subject Use shall be thirty thousand (30,000) square feet.
   B)   The Density of Planned Development containing a Live/Work Dwelling
shall not exceed 1.0 Dwelling s per Net Developable Acre unless otherwise
authorized within this Resolution or via a Divergence that has been reviewed
and approved in accordance with the standards set forth in Section
2707 of this Resolution.
   C)   The ground floor of the Structure shall be used exclusively for a Non-
Residential Type Use that is owned and operated by the resident. Such Use s
shall be restricted to the following: Gallery ; Small Office ; Limited Service
Restaurant ; Ancillary or Small Retail ; Education Service Business ; Personal
Care Service Business ; Pet Service Business ; Professional Service Business ;
and Repair Service Business .
   D)   The upper floor (s) shall consist of only one (1) Dwelling .
   E)   Off-street parking, including attached garages, shall be located to the
rear of the Building .
   F)   The Building shall have direct access to a Pedestrianway .
   G)   Live/Work Dwellings , which also meet the definition of Row Dwelling s,
shall comply with any and all applicable standards established for such Use .
1738.02   The following standards shall apply to Row Dwelling s:
   A)   A Row Dwelling shall contain no less than four (4) and no more than six
(6) Dwelling s attached in a row.
   B)   Off-street parking, including attached garages, shall be located at the
rear of the Building .
   C)   At the bare minimum, each Dwelling shall have its own portico with a
minimum depth of six (6) feet and a minimum width of six (6) feet.
Section 1739: Educational Institution , Private
1739.01   The following standards shall apply to Early Childhood  Private
Educational Institution s:
   A)   Adhere to all provisions set forth in this Article for Day Care
Establishments.
1739.02   The following standards shall apply to Primary, Intermediate, and/or
Secondary  Private Educational Institution s:
   A)   Minimum Lot or Tract Size Requirement:
      1)   Residential and Planned Residential Zoning District s: Twenty (20)
acres.
      2)   All other Zoning Districts not otherwise specified herein: Ten (10)
acres.
   B)   The site shall have access to an Arterial or Collector Street . The
minimum required separation distance between access points on the same Street
shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of the Delaware
County Engineer.
   C)   A drop-off/pick-up area separate from any designated parking areas
shall be provided that the parking of vehicles being used for such purpose can
occur adjacent to the Building site without requiring pedestrians to walk
through a parking lot or the blocking of any Streets , parking spaces, ingress/
egress points, emergency access ways, mail delivery locations, or waste
collection service areas.
   D)   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1739.03   The following standards shall apply to Post-Secondary and/or
Technical  Private Educational Institution s:
   A)   Minimum Lot or Tract Size Requirement:
      1)   Residential and Planned Residential Zoning District s: Twenty (20)
acres.
      2)   All other Zoning Districts not otherwise specified herein: Ten (10)
acres.
   B)   The Street providing access to such Use shall not traverse through a
Planned Residential Zoning District or Residential Zoning District unless said
Street is classified as an Arterial or Collector Street by the current Delaware
County Thoroughfare Plan . The minimum required separation distance between
access points on the same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to
the approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
   C)   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
      1)   Events shall not be broadcast to the exterior of the Use .
1739.04   The following standards shall apply to all Private Educational
Institution s and shall supplement the other regulations set forth within this
Section:
   A)   If buses are utilized, a bus loading/unloading area separate from any
designated parking areas shall be provided that the parking of vehicles being
used for such purpose can occur adjacent to the Building site without requiring
pedestrians to walk through a parking lot or the blocking of any Streets ,
parking spaces, ingress/egress points, emergency access ways, mail delivery
locations, or waste collection service areas.
   B)   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
   C)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
   D)   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
   E)   Any such Use that contains an Early Childhood  Private Educational
Institution or a Day Care Center shall also comply with the standards set forth
herein for Day Care Center Establishments.
   F)   Arena s, Auditorium s, Cultural Centers, Event Facilities , Golf Course
s, Hospitals, Parking Facilities, Off-Street Parking Lots , Racetrack s,
Religious Establishment s, Stadium s, Swimming Pool s, and any other Use s
regulated in this Article shall comply with the standards set forth within said
Article.
Section 1740: Electric, Heat, or Fuel Production/Generation Plants
1740.01   Standards set forth within this Section shall apply to the following
Use s: Electric/Heat Production , and Fuel Generation Plants .
1740.02   Such Use s shall be located at least one thousand (1,000) feet from
any adjoining Residential Type Use , Planned Residential Zoning District , or
Residential Zoning District , and five hundred (500) feet from any other
adjoining Use type or Zoning District .
1740.03   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1740.04   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1740.05   Vehicle repair, service, and/or maintenance facilities shall comply
with the standards set forth within this Article for Vehicle Sales, Rental, and
Service .
1740.06   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1740.07   The perimeter of the Lot or Tract containing such Use shall be
screened in accordance with Section
2003.
1740.08   A description of the nature, character, logistics, timing, duration,
and impacts of the proposed operation, including:
   A)   The location of areas on site that will be utilized for storage of
materials and/or waste, as well as the manner in which storage shall occur.
   B)   The location of any facilities that will be utilized for the
processing, loading, and/or transportation of materials or waste.
   C)   How lighting and/or glare will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare. Outdoor
lighting, if any, shall be shielded and/or reflected away from adjoining
properties.
   D)   How dust and/or debris will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
   E)   How noise and/or vibrations will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
   F)   How fumes and/or odors will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
   G)   How diminution and pollution of air, land, and/or water, including
above and below ground water supplies, will be prevented to the greatest extent
possible to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
1740.09   A list of materials or products that could decompose by detonation
shall be provided to the Genoa Township Fire Department. Such materials shall
include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives including lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate, and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
Section 1741: Emergency Service, Private
1741.01   Garage and repair bays shall not face any Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless screened or separated from such
by another Building or an opaque, decorative Fence eight (8) feet in Height .
1741.02   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1741.03   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1742: Event Facility
1742.01   Unless expressly approved as part of a Planned Development in a
Planned Zoning District , the Lot containing any standalone Event Facility
shall have Frontage on and direct vehicular access to an Arterial Street or
Collector Street as further designated by the current Delaware County
Thoroughfare Plan .
   A)   The minimum required separation distance between access points on the
same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of the
Delaware County Engineer.
   B)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
1742.02   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1742.03   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1742.04   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas, other than those for livestock, shall be hard-surfaced with
asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or
another suitable alternative that is proven to protect surrounding properties
and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1742.05   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1742.06   Campgrounds, Commercial and/or Private Recreational Facilities,
Commercial Stables /Riding Academies , Private Educational Institution s,
Recreation and/or Instructional Facilities , Religious Establishment s, Short-
Term Rental Complex es, and Swimming Pool s shall comply with the provisions
set forth for such Use (s) within this Article.
Section 1743: Fairground
1743.01   Vehicular Access.
   A)   Fairgrounds shall have one direct vehicular access per twenty (20)
acres of Lot or Tract size.
      1)   At least one such access point shall connect directly to an Arterial
Street .
      2)   The minimum required separation distance between access points on
the same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of
the Delaware County Engineer.
   B)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
1743.02   The exterior perimeter of the facility, excluding parking lots, shall
be screened and secured by a Fence no less than six (6) feet in Height . Access
points shall be gated and locked when not in use.
1743.03   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1743.04   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1743.05   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas, other than those for livestock, shall be hard-surfaced with
asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or
another suitable alternative that is proven to protect surrounding properties
and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1743.06   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1743.07   Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease between the overnight
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This provision shall not apply
to incidental activities or routine maintenance of such facilities.
1743.08   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth within this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
Section 1744: Fleet Maintenance Facility
1744.01   All service work and repair shall be done inside an enclosed Building
. No outdoor dismantling, wrecking, or storage of automotive vehicles or parts
shall be permitted unless otherwise expressly permitted by this Resolution.
1744.02   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1744.03   When such Use is located within a Residential Zoning District (where
permitted), garage, repair bays, fuel pumps, and vacuums shall be screened by
an opaque, decorative Fence six (6) feet in Height .
1744.04   When such Use is located within a Non-Residential Zoning District ,
garages, repair bays, fuel pumps, and vacuums shall not face any Street or Lot
within the Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District unless screened
or separated from such by another Building or an opaque, decorative Fence six
(6) feet in Height .
1744.05   Such Use shall not be permitted to operate as an Automobile Salvage
or a Junkyard . No derelict, damaged, unlicensed vehicles, or Junk Vehicles
shall be stored on the premises for more than forty-eight (48) hours.
1744.06   Vehicles awaiting repair outside, as well as wrecked vehicles and
Junk Vehicles , shall be screened, and a view of them from adjacent Lots and
streets shall be obscured with a solid vegetative landscape buffer or opaque
fencing of at least six (6) feet in height.
1744.07   When vehicles are to be stored on the site awaiting repair, there
shall be a designated storage area that shall not include the required parking
space for the site. Such storage shall not cause traffic hazards or the
blocking of traffic flow.
1744.08   All storage of new, used, or discarded parts or materials shall be
within a fully enclosed Structure .
1744.09   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
Section 1745: Flex Space , Commercial or Industrial
1745.01   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
1745.02   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1745.03   All storage that is not totally enclosed within a Building shall be
fully enclosed with a secure and opaque Fence and/or wall standing eight (8)
feet in Height .
1745.04   Stored materials shall not project from or be visible beyond the top
of the enclosure required herein.
1745.05   Where Outdoor Storage is located adjacent to a Residential or Planned
Residential District ; there shall be planted along the outside face of the
required screening evergreen trees adhering to the provisions of Section
2006 at thirty (30) foot intervals.
1745.06   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1745.07   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use  
1745.08   Use s within the Flex Space shall be limited to those authorized for
the Zoning District (s) to which the property is subject. Applicable provisions
for such Use shall similarly apply.
Section 1746: Food Hall
1746.01   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1746.02   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1746.03   Any Mobile Enterprise , Mobile Enterprise Court , Mobile Service
Business , and Mobile Vending Business established in conjunction or
association with the Food Hall or on the same premise as the Food Hall shall
comply with all standards set forth for such Use s within this Article.
Section 1747: Food Preparation, Processing, Packaging, and/or Wholesale Plants
1747.01   The following standards shall apply to Food Preparation/Wholesale
Plant s:
   A)   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
   B)   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1747.02   The following standards shall apply to Food Process and Packaging
Plants:
   A)   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
   B)   The minimum required Lot size for such a Use shall be five (5) acres.
   C)   Yard requirements shall be as follows:
      1)   Front Yard : Fifty (50) feet.
      2)   Side Yard : Seventy-five (75) feet.
      3)   Rear Yard : Seventy-five (75) feet.
   D)   All Structure s shall be set back at least one hundred and fifty (150)
feet from any Lot Line shared with a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning
District .
   E)   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
   F)   All materials and equipment shall be stored within a completely
enclosed Building . For the purpose of this section, covered decks, covered
patios, covered Porch es, three-season rooms, and other such spaces shall not
be considered a fully enclosed Building .
   G)   All processing, slaughtering, packaging, etc. activities, with the
exception of loading and unloading freight and materials, shall occur indoors
and shall not be visible from any adjacent Lot or Street .
   H)   All equipment used in the operation shall be disassembled and/or
repaired indoors; such activities shall not be visible from any adjacent Lot or
Street .
Section 1748: Games of Chance Establishment
1748.01   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1748.02   Games of Chance Establishment s are permitted as a Principal Use only
in the Zoning Districts expressly specified within this Zoning Resolution and
shall be subject to the following restrictions:
   A)   Games of Chance Establishment s shall not be permitted within one
thousand (1,000) feet, as measured from the closest Lot Line of each Use ,
unless otherwise specified, of any: Dwelling within a Residential or Planned
Residential Zoning District ; other Games of Chance Establishment ; Cemetery ,
Crematorium , Funeral Home , or Mortuary ; Cultural Center ; Day Care Centers
(all types); Educational Institutions (grades 12 or lower); Hospital ; Natural
Resource Protection area; Public library or Museum ; Public park or playground;
or Religious Establishment .
   B)   Only one (1) Games of Chance Establishment is permitted in a single
Structure when such Use is established as Principal Use . No co-location of
principal Games of Chance Establishments shall be permitted within one (1)
Structure .
   C)   All gaming activity shall occur within the confines of a fully enclosed
Building . For the purpose of this section, covered decks, covered patios,
covered Porch es, three-season rooms, and other such spaces shall not be
considered a fully enclosed Building .
   D)   Illicit material shall not be displayed publicly.
1759.03   All operations must be conducted within an enclosed Building ; doors
and windows shall remain closed during hours of operation. For the purpose of
this section, covered decks, covered patios, covered Porch es, three-season
rooms, and other such spaces shall not be considered a fully enclosed Building
.
1759.04   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1759.05   No Games of Chance Establishment shall feature any components meeting
the definition of a Sexually Oriented Business .
Section 1749: Golf Course
1749.01   Golf Course s in Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District s
shall only be permitted when they are subsidiary to the primary residential Use
of the property.
1749.02   All Structure s, Game Fields/Courts , Swimming Pool s, and other such
facilities that are not solely used for storage or mechanics (e.g.,
electricity, plumbing, etc.) shall be set back at least one hundred (100) feet
from the Front Lot Line and fifty (50) feet from all other Lot Lines adjacent
to the subject Lot or Tract . All other Structure s shall be set back at least
twenty-five (25) feet from any Lot Line adjacent to the subject Lot or Tract .
1749.03   All maintenance equipment shall be stored in sheds or other Structure
s and away from view.
1749.04   No hole or green shall be located within two hundred (200) feet of an
existing Residential Type Use unless otherwise approved as part of a larger
Planned Development District, so long as said residences are also part of the
Planned Development .
1749.05   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1749.06   The minimum Floor Area requirements for the clubhouse or management
Structure shall be five thousand (5,000) square feet.
1749.07   Any Golf Course s hereinafter constructed within designated areas of
Genoa Township shall occupy not less than one hundred fifty (150) acres.
1749.08   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1749.09   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1749.10   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500)
feet of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease
between the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This
provision shall not apply to incidental activities or routine maintenance of
such facilities.
Section 1750: Home Occupation , Low-Impact
1750.01   When Conditional Use approval is desired or required by this
Resolution for a Home Occupation , the following standards shall apply:
   A)   There shall be no more than two (2) non-residential employees or
volunteers to be engaged in the proposed Use ;
   B)   Sales of commodities not produced on the premises may be permitted
provided that the commodities are specified in the application, are reasonably
related to the Home Occupation , and are sold within the interior of a Building
(i.e., Outdoor Displays are prohibited) or a Structure as permitted in Sections
2303.03 and
2303.04;
   C)   Outside Storage related to the Home Occupation may be permitted if
totally screened from adjacent residential Lots pursuant to Section
1610.05, provided the application specifies;
   D)   Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the gross Floor Area of any
residence shall be devoted to the proposed Home Occupation ; however, up to
100% of a lawful and otherwise permitted Accessory Building may be devoted to
the proposed Home Occupation ;
      1)   Any Accessory Building containing a Home Occupation , existing or
proposed, shall be in full and complete compliance with this Zoning Resolution,
subject to Article
25, Non-Conformities.
   E)   The external appearance of the Structure in which the Use is to be
conducted shall not be altered, and not more than one (1) Sign no larger than
two (2) square feet shall be mounted flush to the wall of the Structure ;
   F)   Minor or moderate Alterations in accordance with other provisions of
this Resolution may be permitted to accommodate the proposed Use but there
shall be no substantial construction or reconstruction;
   G)   No equipment process, materials, or chemicals shall be used that create
offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat, glare, X-rays, radiation,
or electrical disturbances; and
   H)   No more than two (2) additional parking places may be proposed in
conjunction with the Home Occupation . Such spaces shall not be located in the
required Front Yard .
   I)   Exterior lighting related to the Home Occupation shall conform with the
provisions of Article
21 with the exception of exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting
fixtures, including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to
Single-Family Dwelling s.
Section 1751: Hospitals and Large Medical Clinics
1751.01   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1751.02   Vehicular Access.
   A)   Hospital s situated on Lots or Tract s less than twenty (20) acres in
area shall have direct vehicular access to at least one (1) Arterial Street .
   B)   Hospital s situated on Lots or Tract s of twenty (20) acres or more in
area shall have direct vehicular access to one (1) Arterial Street and one (1)
Collector Street or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street . The minimum
required separation distance of the latter shall be three hundred (300) feet
between access points, subject to the approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
   C)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
1751.03   A drop-off/pick-up area separate from any designated parking areas
shall be provided so that the parking of vehicles being used for such purpose
can occur adjacent to the Building site without requiring pedestrians to walk
through a parking lot or the blocking of any parking spaces, ingress/egress
points, emergency access ways, mail delivery locations, or waste collection
service areas.
1751.04   Internal Access Street System. A looping internal access Street
system shall be provided. All Use s shall have access by means of the internal
access Street system. The internal Street system shall be arranged to allow
proper development of the surrounding properties and a continuous network with
the internal Street systems of surrounding properties.
1751.05   Pedestrian Circulation. A system of Pedestrianway s, sidewalks,
crossings, and the like shall be provided for access to the center along and
across access Streets and from adjacent residential Use s, as well as for
access within the center.
1751.06   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1751.07   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1751.08   Any such Use containing a Landing Pad/Strip shall also comply with
the standards set forth herein for such Use as well as with the standards set
forth herein for Aviation Facilities.
1751.09   Any such Use that contains a Day Care Center shall also comply with
the standards set forth herein for Day Care Center Establishments .
Section 1752: Hotel/Motel
1752.01   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1752.02   A drop-off/pick-up area separate from any designated parking areas
shall be provided that the parking of vehicles being used for such purpose can
occur adjacent to the Building site without requiring pedestrians to walk
through a parking lot or the blocking of any parking spaces, ingress/egress
points, emergency access ways, mail delivery locations, or waste collection
service areas.
1752.03   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1752.04   The service of meals and/or beverages shall be secondary to the
primary use of room or suite rental.
1752.05   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1752.06   Any such Use that contains a Day Care Center shall also comply with
the standards set forth herein for Day Care Center Establishments .
1752.07   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth in this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
1752.08   Hotels/Motels shall not operate in a manner that meets the definition
of a Sexually Oriented Business .
Section 1753: Junkyards and Landfills/Incinerators
1753.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Automobile Salvage shall
apply to Junkyards.
1753.02   The following standards shall apply to Landfills/Incinerators:
   A)   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
   B)   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
   C)   Landfills/Incinerators shall be located at least one thousand (1,000)
feet from any adjoining Residential Type Use , Planned Residential Zoning
District , or Residential Zoning District .
   D)   The perimeter of the Lot or Tract containing such Use shall be screened
in accordance with Section
2003.
   E)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
   F)   A description of the nature, character, logistics, timing, duration,
and impacts of the proposed operation, including:
      1)   The location of areas on site which will be utilized for storage of
materials and/or waste as well as the manner in which storage shall occur.
      2)   The location of any facilities that will be utilized for the
processing, loading, and/or transportation of materials or waste.
      3)   How lighting and/or glare will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare. Outdoor
lighting, if any, shall be shielded and/or reflected away from adjoining
properties.
      4)   How dust and/or debris will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
      5)   How noise and/or vibrations will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
      6)   How fumes and/or odor will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
      7)   How diminution and pollution of air, land, and/or water, including
above and below ground water supplies, will be prevented to the greatest extent
possible to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   G)   A list of materials or products that could decompose by detonation
shall be provided to the Genoa Township Fire Department. Such materials shall
include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives including lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate, and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
   H)   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1754: Landing Pad/Strip
1754.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Aviation Facility shall
apply.
Section 1755: Manufacturing , Heavy
1755.01   Vehicular Access.
   A)   Any such Use situated on Lots or Tract s less than twenty (20) acres in
area shall have direct vehicular access to at least one (1) Arterial Street .
   B)   Any such Use situated on Lots or Tract s twenty (20) acres or more in
area shall have direct vehicular access to one (1) Arterial Street and one (1)
Collector Street or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street . The minimum
required separation distance of the latter shall be three hundred (300) feet
between access points, subject to the approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
   C)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
1755.02   All materials and equipment shall be stored within a completely
enclosed Building and in compliance with any other storage-related provisions
within this Zoning Resolution. For the purpose of this section, covered decks,
covered patios, covered Porch es, three-season rooms, and other such spaces
shall not be considered a fully enclosed Building .
1755.03   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1755.04   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1755.05   Vehicle repair, service, and/or maintenance facilities shall comply
with the standards set forth within this Article for Vehicle Sales, Rental, and
Service .
1755.06   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1755.07   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1755.08   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500)
feet of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease
between the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This
provision shall not apply to incidental activities or routine maintenance of
such facilities.
Section 1756: Marina
1756.01   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1756.02   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1756.03   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1756.04   Vehicle repair, service, and/or maintenance facilities shall comply
with the standards set forth within this Article for Vehicle Sales, Rental, and
Service .
1756.05   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1756.06   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1757: Marketplace (Indoor or Outdoor )
1757.01   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1757.02   Any such Use with outdoor operations shall comply with the standards
set forth in this Article for Mobile Enterprise Court s. Similarly, if a Mobile
Enterprise , Mobile Enterprise Court , Mobile Service Business , and/or Mobile
Vending Business is proposed or included as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth herein this Article for such Use s shall apply.
1757.03   Any such Use whose total operational area, exclusive of parking,
exceeds twenty thousand (20,000) square feet in size shall also comply with the
standards set forth within this Article for Large Retail .
Section 1758: Mixed-Use
1758.01   Reserved.
Section 1759: Mobile Enterprise  Use s
1759.01   The following standards shall apply to Use s meeting the definition
of Mobile Enterprise :
   A)   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
   B)   The Use shall have the permission of the property owner to operate.
Documentation of such proof shall be provided when a Legal Approval is
required. This standard shall not apply to Mobile Enterprises operating in a
public Street , those operating as part of a larger Temporary Event, and those
occupying spaces designated for such Use in an approved Final Development Plan
.
   C)   With the exception of lawful Temporary Events, no more than two (2)
Mobile Enterprises may operate on a Lot in a Straight Zoning District at any
one time.
   D)   Mobile Enterprises on private property shall be set back at least fifty
(50) feet from any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District unless
screened by an on-site Fence at least five (5) feet in Height in which case the
setback shall be reduced to ten (10) feet. This standard shall not apply to
Mobile Service Businesses providing services on-site to a singular client.
   E)   Mobile Enterprises shall not park on any non-paved area within a
designated Open Space area or required Front Yard .
   F)   The Use , including any of its associated components, amenities, or
activities, shall not block any Streets , Right-of-Way s, accessible parking
spaces, emergency access routes, clear sight triangles, road or utility
easements, Pedestrianway s, or any other clearance zones that may be required
by other governmental agencies. This restriction shall not apply to any such
features located within a conventional parking space, driveway, or other
similar type of area that could equally be blocked by a standard motorized
vehicle.
   G)   Electrical cords, water hoses, etc., crossing such areas shall be
securely covered to prevent tripping, hazards, and damage to vehicles.
   H)   Supplies and any other items related to the operation of the Mobile
Enterprise shall be stored within the interior of the vehicle or trailer where
the operation is occurring or within an enclosed Building . No such items shall
be stored outside.
   I)   A letter from the Genoa Township Fire Department approving the proposed
location of the Mobile Enterprise shall be provided prior to the issuance of a
Legal Approval .
   J)   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
   K)   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500) feet
of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease between
the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This standard
shall not apply to Mobile Service Businesses providing services on-site to a
singular client.
   L)   Waste, including debris, Junk , litter, refuse, and trash, as well as
compost and recyclables, including grease and grey water, shall be controlled,
stored in proper containers, handled, and disposed of in accordance with the
requirements of the Delaware Public Health District and any other agency having
jurisdiction over such matters.
   M)   Mobile Vending Business es shall be subject to the regulations and/or
restrictions of any Legal Approval applicable to the Lot or Tract on which they
are operating. In the instance of conflict, the stricter shall apply.
1759.02   The following standards shall apply to Use s meeting the definition
of Mobile Enterprise Court :
   A)   Mobile Enterprises occupying the facility shall comply with Section
1759.01 above.
   B)   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided. No such facility shall be
located within one hundred (100) feet of a Lot or Tract located within a
Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District .
   C)   A centralized dumpster, four (4) cubic yards in size, shall be
provided.
      1)   The dumpster shall not be located within one hundred (100) feet of a
Lot or Tract located within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning
District .
      2)   Screening of the dumpster shall be provided in accordance with
Article
20, Section
2004.03.
1759.03   The following standards shall apply to both Mobile Enterprises and
Mobile Enterprise Court s:
   A)   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500) feet
of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease between
the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This provision
shall not apply to incidental activities or routine maintenance of such
facilities.
   B)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
   C)   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to these Use s.
Section 1760: Mobile Home Use s
1760.01   The following standards shall apply to Mobile Homes:
   A)   Mobile Homes shall only be permitted in an approved Mobile Home Park .
   B)   Mobile Homes shall comply with all applicable standards set forth
herein for Mobile Home Park s.
   C)   The placement of a Mobile Home within an approved Mobile Home Park
shall be considered a Use by right and shall not require Conditional Use
approval.
1760.02   The following standards shall apply to Mobile Home Park s:
   A)   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
   B)   The location of all Mobile Home Park s shall comply with the following
minimum requirements:
      1)   Minim Lot or Tract size: Ten (10) Contiguous acres.
      2)   Such a Use shall not be established wholly or partially on an
existing wetland even if mitigation is proposed.
      3)   Such a Use shall not be located in a Regulatory Flood Plain .
   C)   Mobile Home Park Design Requirements.
      1)   All required Landscaping shall comply with the provisions of Article
20, Section
2002.
      2)   The perimeter of the Mobile Home Park shall be screened in
accordance with Article
20, Section
2003.02.
      3)   Stormwater infrastructure shall be screened in accordance with
Article
20, Section
2003.06
      4)   Off-Street Parking lots shall be screened in accordance with Article
20, Section
2004.01.
      5)   Building s shall be landscaped in accordance with Article
20, Section
2004.02.
      6)   Dumpsters and the like shall be screened in accordance with Article
20, Section
2004.03.
      7)   Building mechanicals shall be landscaped in accordance with Article
20, Section
2004.04.
      8)   Grades and slopes shall be landscaped in accordance with Article
20, Section
2004.05.
      9)   All required plantings shall comply with the species and size
requirements set forth in Article
20, Sections
2005 and
2006.
   D)   Mobile Home Lot Design Requirements.
      1)   All Mobile Home Lot s shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the exterior boundaries of the Mobile Home Park .
      2)   The minimum area of any Mobile Home Lot shall be at least six
thousand (6,000) square feet.
      3)   The subject area of the Mobile Home Lot shall be improved to provide
an adequate foundation for the placement of the Mobile Home in such a position
as to allow a minimum of fifteen (15) feet between the Mobile Home and any
adjacent Street  Right-of-Way .
      4)   Individual Mobile Homes, including Accessory Structures  attached
thereto, shall be set back at least thirty (30) feet from one another. This
requirement shall not restrict attachments as long as a minimum separation of
twenty (20) feet.
      5)   Individual Mobile Homes, including Accessory Structures  attached
thereto, shall be set back at least fifteen (15) feet from internal Streets or
common areas.
   E)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
   F)   No part of any Mobile Home Park shall be used for a Non-Residential
Type Use except for such Use s required for the direct servicing of the public
health and safety of the park’s residents or the management and maintenance of
the park.
   G)   No central toilet or washroom facilities shall be permitted.
   H)   Pumps, including those for fuel, wastewater, and/or greywater, shall be
set back at least fifty (50) feet from any Lot Line .
   I)   Vehicle repair, service, and/or maintenance facilities shall comply
with the standards set forth within this Article for Vehicle Sales, Rental, and
Service .
   J)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the sale
of a Mobile Home located on a Mobile Home Lot connected to utilities.
   K)   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 with the exception of exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting
fixtures, including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to
Single-Family Dwelling s.
   L)   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1761: Mobile Service or Vending Businesses
1761.01   The Use shall comply with all standards established for Mobile
Enterprise  Use s set forth within this Article.
1761.02   The Use shall comply with all standards established for Mobile
Enterprise  Use s set forth within this Article.
Section 1762: Multi-Family Building s
1762.01   The following standards shall be specific to Multi-Building
Complexes:
   A)   The site shall have vehicular access to an Arterial and/or Collector
Street .
      1)   The minimum required separation distance between access points on
the same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of
the Delaware County Engineer.
      2)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
   B)   In addition to Article
19, the following parking standards shall apply:
      1)   Parking lots shall be designed so that at least one standard semi-
trailer can be parked off-street adjacent to any Building containing a Dwelling
without blocking any parking spaces, ingress/egress points, emergency access
ways, mail delivery locations, or waste collection service areas.
      2)   Parking spaces shall be located no more than three hundred (300)
feet from the entrance of the Building that the spaces are intended to serve.
   C)   A paved pedestrian network of sidewalks, trails, paths, and designated
crosswalks shall be provided to provide connected, non-motorized routes between
all Building s within the complex.
1762.02   The following standards shall be specific to Multi-Family –
Multiplexes:
   A)   In addition to Article
19, the following parking standards shall apply:
      1)   Parking spaces shall be located no more than one hundred (100) feet
from the entrance of the Building the spaces are intended to serve.
1762.03   The following standards shall apply to both Multi-Family – Complexes
and Multi-Family Multiplexes:
   A)   All dumpster, compost/recycling/waste collection, and/or trash
compactor areas shall be located at least fifty (50) feet from the closest
Dwelling and enclosed by a solid, decorative masonry wall at least six (6) feet
in Height . The number and size of such areas shall be enough to service the
entire complex without creating a hazard to public health or safety. The
vehicular access needed to service such area(s) shall be designed so that no
servicing vehicle blocks any parking spaces, ingress/egress points, emergency
accessways, primary Pedestrianway s, or mail delivery locations.
   B)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
   C)   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 except for exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting fixtures,
including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to Single-Family
Dwelling s.
   D)   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth in this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
Section 1763: Natural Resource Extraction
1763.01   Surface mining activities authorized via Conditional Use in this
Zoning Resolution shall be processed, reviewed, and considered in accordance
with ORC 519.141.
1763.02   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1763.03   A description of the nature, character, logistics, timing, duration,
and impacts of the proposed operation, including:
   A)   The material(s) being extracted.
   B)   The purpose(s) for extraction.
   C)   A map(s) identifying the area and extent of the proposed activity.
   D)   A site plan(s) illustrating the area and extent of the proposed
activity as well as the location and design of all proposed Structure s and
equipment, regardless of whether they are permanent, temporary, or transient.
   E)   The proposed depth(s) of exaction.
   F)   The location of areas on site which will be utilized for storage of
materials and/or waste, as well as the manner in which storage shall occur.
   G)   The location of any facilities that will be utilized for the
processing, loading, and/or transportation of materials or waste.
   H)   How materials and waste will be transported on and/or off-site,
including:
      1)   Anticipated route(s) of travel.
      2)   Number of vehicles to be used for transport.
      3)   Arid weight of vehicles to be used for transport.
      4)   Maintenance plans for any Street used for transport.
   I)   How lighting and/or glare will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare. Outdoor
lighting, if any, shall be shielded and/or reflected away from adjoining
properties.
   J)   How dust and/or debris will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
   K)   How noise and/or vibrations will be mitigated to the greatest extent
possible to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
   L)   How fumes and/or odor will be mitigated to the greatest extent possible
to protect public health, safety, and general welfare.
   M)   How diminution and pollution of air, land, and/or water, including
above and below ground water supplies, will be prevented to the greatest extent
possible to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   N)   Plans and intentions for the restoration and reclamation of all land
affected by the operation to a condition that will support reasonable
utilization of the site by any Use permitted by the applicable Zoning District
as set forth in Article
5.
   O)   Primary contact information for the operation.
   P)   Emergency contact information for the operation.
1763.04   The processing of extracted materials in any manner on-site shall be
prohibited unless such processing is necessary for proper transport and/or to
ensure public safety.
1763.05   In order to grant Conditional Use approval for this Use , the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall require sufficient information to determine that:
   A)   The scale, pace, and duration of the proposed activity are reasonable
in relation to the ability of other portions of Genoa Township to maintain
normal patterns of activity while extraction is occurring.
   B)   Adequate safeguards are provided to ensure that damage will not be done
to property elsewhere in Genoa Township or the natural environment.
   C)   The proposed plan for reclamation and reuse of land is acceptable and
in compliance with this Zoning Resolution. If the proposed reclamation is for
Agriculture , forestry, Natural Resource Protection , and/or any other type of
undeveloped Use , grading, drainage, and vegetation shall be compatible with
other similar Use s in Genoa Township.
1763.06   In order to grant Conditional Use approval or a modified Conditional
Use approval for the expansion or change of such Use , the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall require sufficient information to determine that:
   A)   The performance of the applicant and/or Use has been in conformance
with all Legal Approvals, including any prior Conditional Use approval(s).
   B)   No expansion in the area of such Use shall be permitted until
extraction activities have been completed on an equivalent area of land and
said land shall have been graded, vegetated, and otherwise established in
accordance with any Legal Approvals pertaining to the reclamation of the site,
including any prior Conditional Use approval(s).
1763.07   The scope, area(s), and method(s) of extraction shall not exceed or
be larger and/or more intense than those licensed and/or permitted by any
applicable state and/or federal permitting authorities for such Use .
1763.08   A permanently placed Sign identifying the name of the operator,
materials being extracted, contact information of the operator, and emergency
contact information of the operator shall be posted at each access point onto
the site. Such signage shall not count towards signage otherwise permitted by
Article
18. The following provisions shall also apply:
   A)   The Sign shall be reasonably visible and legible from adjacent Internal
Streets .
   B)   The Sign shall be set back no less than ten (10) feet and no more than
twenty (20) feet from any adjoining Street .
   C)   The Sign (s) shall have a Sign Area of no less than ten (10) square
feet and no more than twenty (20) square feet.
   D)   The total width of the Sign shall not exceed seven and one-half (7 ½)
feet.
   E)   The Sign shall have a total height of no less than four (4) feet and no
taller than eight (8) feet.
1763.09   A list of materials or products that could decompose by detonation
shall be provided to the Genoa Township Fire Department. Such materials shall
include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives including lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate, and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
1763.10   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1763.11   Should any provisions herein conflict with any applicable state and/
or federal law or agency, the stricter shall apply.
Section 1764: Nightclub
1764.01   No Nightclub shall be established within five hundred (500) feet,
measured Lot Line to Lot Line , from another Nightclub or from any: Dwelling
within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District ; Cemetery ,
Crematorium , Funeral Home , or Mortuary ; Cultural Center ; Day Care Centers
(all types); Educational Institutions (grades 12 or lower); Hospital ; Natural
Resource Protection area; public library or museum ; public park or playground;
Religious Establishment ; Sexually Oriented Business ; or Substance Abuse
Treatment Clinic .
1764.02   Facility entrances and exits (excluding emergency exits) facing a
Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall have a vestibule with
a second door to minimize noise.
1764.03   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1764.04   The owner and operator must provide adequate private security
licensed under the laws of the State of Ohio during events that attract maximum
permitted occupancy.
1764.05   All operations must be conducted within an enclosed Building ; doors
and windows shall remain closed during hours of operation. For the purpose of
this section, covered decks, covered patios, covered Porch es, three-season
rooms, and other such spaces shall not be considered a fully enclosed Building
.
1764.06   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1764.07   No Nightclub shall feature any components meeting the definition of a
Sexually Oriented Business .
Section 1765: Nursery , Retail or Wholesale
1765.01   Impervious Surfaces shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the Lot
Area .
1765.02   Greenhouse  Structure s shall be set back at least one hundred (100)
feet from any Lot Line adjoining the subject Lot or Tract .
1765.03   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1765.04   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1765.05   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances. This standard shall not apply to aisleways between rows of
plantings.
1765.06   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1765.07   Nurseries, Retail or Wholesale, with a Building of over twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet, a mixture of Building s and Structure s totaling
more than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, and/or on a Lot or Tract one
(1) or more acre in size shall also adhere to the standards set forth for Large
Retail Establishment s set forth herein this Article.
Section 1766: Off-Road Motorized Vehicle Track
1766.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Recreation and/or
Instructional Facility , Outdoor shall apply.
1766.02   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1766.03   Vehicle repair, service, and/or maintenance facilities shall comply
with the standards set forth within this Article for Vehicle Sales, Rental, and
Service .
1766.04   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1766.05   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1766.06   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500)
feet of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease
between the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This
provision shall not apply to incidental activities or routine maintenance of
such facilities.
Section 1767: Office - Large
1767.01   Vehicular Access.
   A)   Any such Use situated on Lots or Tract s less than twenty (20) acres in
area shall have direct vehicular access to at least one (1) Arterial Street .
   B)   Any such Use situated on Lots or Tract s twenty (20) acres or more in
area shall have direct vehicular access to one (1) Arterial Street and one (1)
Collector Street or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street . The minimum
required separation distance of the latter shall be three hundred (300) feet
between access points, subject to the approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
   C)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
1767.02   Internal Access Street System. A looping internal access Street
system shall be provided. All Use s shall have access by means of the internal
access Street system. The internal Street system shall be arranged to allow
proper development of the surrounding properties and a continuous network with
the internal Street systems of surrounding properties.
1767.03   Pedestrian Circulation. A Pedestrianway system shall be provided for
access to the center along and across access Streets and from adjacent
residential Use s, as well as for access within the center.
1767.04   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1767.05   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1767.06   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1768: Oil and Gas Production
1768.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Natural Resource
Extraction shall apply unless otherwise exempt as further specified in Article
1, Section
102.10 of this Resolution.
Section 1769: Outdoor Collection
1769.01   The provisions within this Section shall not apply to Outdoor
Collection receptacles placed temporarily or seasonally for a period of thirty
(30) consecutive days or less. Such receptacles may be placed by right without
obtaining Legal Approval .
1769.02   The Use shall have the permission of the property owner to operate.
Documentation of such proof shall be provided when a Legal Approval is
required. This standard shall not apply to Mobile Enterprises operating on a
public Street or as part of a larger Temporary Event.
1769.03   No more than one (1) Outdoor Collection receptacle shall be permitted
on a Lot or Tract .
1769.04   Outdoor Collection receptacles shall not be permitted within a
designated Open Space area or a required Front Yard .
1769.05   Outdoor Collection receptacles shall only be permitted on paved
surfaces such as asphaltic concrete or Portland cement concrete pavement.
1769.06   Outdoor Collection receptacles shall be set back at least fifty (50)
feet from any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District .
1769.07   Outdoor Collection receptacles shall not block any Streets , Right-
of-Way s, required parking spaces, required parking drive aisles, emergency
access routes, clear sight triangles, road or utility easements, Pedestrianway
s, or any other clearance zones that may be required by other governmental
agencies. If such a receptacle is placed along a Pedestrianway , five (5) feet
of clearance shall be always maintained.
1769.08   Outdoor Collection receptacles that are not placed adjacent to a
Building shall be screened from the view of neighboring properties and Streets
pursuant to the standards set forth in Section
2004 of this Resolution.
1769.09   Maintenance.
   A)   Outdoor Collection receptacles shall be designed to prevent the
overflow or blowing away of materials.
   B)   Any materials left outside of the overflow receptacle shall be
deposited within the receptacle or collected from the site within seven (7)
days.
   C)   Outdoor Collection receptacles shall be maintained in good physical
condition, with no broken, chipped, fading, loose, missing, peeling, or rusted
exteriors or components, and otherwise free of Deterioration, decomposition,
and/or decay.
   D)   The failure to adhere to these standards shall be grounds for the
revocation of the Legal Approval permitting the Use and/or grounds for
enforcement pursuant to Article
1 Section
116 of this Resolution.
1769.10   The name and contact information of the owner of the Outdoor
Collection receptacle shall be clearly and legibly displayed on the receptacle.
1769.11   Outdoor Collection receptacles shall be subject to the regulations
and/or restrictions of any Legal Approval applicable to the Lot or Tract on
which they are operating. In the instance of conflict, the stricter shall
apply.
Section 1770: Parking Facility
1770.01   The site shall have direct vehicular access to an Arterial and/or
Collector Street .
   A)   The minimum required separation distance between access points on the
same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of the
Delaware County Engineer.
   B)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
1770.02   The maximum grade of parking floors shall not exceed six percent
(6%).
1770.03   The maximum grade of ramps shall be:
   A)   Covered; Fifteen percent (15%).
   B)   Uncovered: Twelve percent (12%).
1770.04   For multilevel facilities, at least one (1) elevator shall be
provided for each two hundred and fifty (250) parking spaces.
1770.05   Parking space and associated drive aisle dimensions shall comply with
the provisions of Article
19.
1770.06   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1770.07   The facility shall be designed so that pedestrians utilizing the
primary entrance/exit do not have to step into or traverse through any
designated parking space, drive aisle, or vehicular access point.
1770.08   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1770.09   Any outdoor, surface-level parking area shall also comply with the
standards set forth within this Article for Off-Street Parking Lot .
Section 1771: Parking Lot, Off-Street
1771.01   The following standards shall only apply when an Off-Street Parking
Lot is being proposed as a Principal Use :
   A)   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial or
Collector Street when being proposed or established as a Principal Use .
   B)   The facility shall be designed so that pedestrians utilizing the
primary entrance/exit do not have to step into or traverse through any
designated parking space, drive aisle, or vehicular access point.
   C)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
   D)   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1772: Racetrack
1772.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Recreation and/or
Instructional Facility , Outdoor shall apply.
1772.02   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1772.03   Vehicle repair, service, and/or maintenance facilities shall comply
with the standards set forth within this Article for Vehicle Sales, Rental, and
Service .
1772.04   Facilities housing, training, or caring for animals shall comply with
the standards set forth within this Article for Recreation and/or Instructional
Facilities , Outdoor.
1772.05   Collected animal waste shall not be stored within five hundred (500)
feet of the perimeter of the subject Lot or Tract .
1772.06   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1772.07   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1772.08   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500)
feet of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease
between the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This
provision shall not apply to incidental activities or routine maintenance of
such facilities.
Section 1773: Recreation and/or Instructional Facility , Outdoor
1773.01   Minimum Lot Area or Tract size shall be no less than five (5) acres.
1773.02   Access and Traffic Impact - Access shall be from an Arterial Street
or a Collector Street . The minimum required separation distance between access
points on the same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the
approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
1773.03   Setback s:
   A)   Front: 100 feet for structures and 75 feet for parking;
   B)   Rear: 75 feet; and
   C)   Side: 75 feet.
   D)   Driveways and parking areas shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District .
1773.04   All outdoor playing fields, courts , and other similar outdoor
recreation facilities must be secured at night to prevent unauthorized access.
1773.05   Exterior lighting shall conform to the provisions of Article
21.
1773.06   No more than eighty percent (80%) of the Lot or Tract area may
comprise of outdoor fields, courts , rinks, and the like.
1773.07   A minimum eight (8) foot high landscaped screen or combination mound
and plant material with a ninety percent (90%) year-round opacity shall be
provided on any side of the site containing an outdoor amenity that is adjacent
to Lots within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District . If a
mound is used, it shall be constructed with no more than a 4 to 1 slope. Mounds
shall not be constructed to restrict the natural flow of surface water to or
from the site.
1773.08   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1773.09   Permanent restroom facilities located within a Building and connected
to a sanitary sewer or other approved on-site disposal system approved by the
Delaware Public Health District must be provided.
1773.10   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas, other than those intended to house animals, shall be hard-
surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, permeable
pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to protect surrounding
properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1773.11   Ranges and courses used for shooting and throwing sports (e.g., guns,
bows, darts, axes, knives, paintball, airsoft, archery tag, laser tag, etc.)
shall comply with all provisions established for such within Section
1723 (Commercial and/or Private Recreational Facilities ) of this Article.
1773.12   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1773.13   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500)
feet of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease
between the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This
provision shall not apply to incidental activities or routine maintenance of
such facilities.
1773.14   Racetrack s and Swimming Pool s shall comply with the provisions set
forth for such Use (s) within this Article.
Section 1774: Religious Establishment
1774.01   Unless expressly approved as part of a Planned Development in a
Planned Zoning District , the Lot containing any standalone Religious
Establishment shall have Frontage on and direct vehicular access to an Arterial
Street or Collector Street as further designated by the current Delaware County
Thoroughfare Plan .
   A)   The minimum required separation distance between access points on the
same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of the
Delaware County Engineer.
   B)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
1774.02   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1774.03   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1774.04   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1774.05   A Private Educational Institution (s) shall be permitted on the same
Lot or Tract as a Religious Establishment so long as such Use (s) do not
comprise more than twenty (20) acres of the subject Lot or Tract , inclusive of
any associated parking area. The following standards shall also apply:
   A)   When the associated Religious Establishment is located within a
Straight District, Conditional Use approval pursuant to Article
3 shall be obtained.
   B)   When the associated Religious Establishment is located within a Planned
Zoning District , it shall be subject to the provisions of Article
27.
   C)   Accessory Dwellings in all Zoning Districts shall also comply with the
standards set forth herein for Accessory Dwelling s.
1774.06   No more than one (1) Accessory Dwelling shall be permitted on the
same Lot or Tract as a Religious Establishment . The following standards shall
also apply:
   A)   When the associated Religious Establishment is located within a
Straight District, Conditional Use approval pursuant to Article
3 shall be obtained.
   B)   When the associated Religious Establishment is located within a Planned
Zoning District , it shall be subject to the provisions of Article
27.
   C)   Accessory Dwellings in all Zoning Districts shall also comply with the
standards set forth herein for Accessory Dwelling s.
1774.07   Any such Use that contains a Day Care Center shall also comply with
the standards set forth herein for such Use .
1774.08   Any such Use that contains a Cemetery shall also comply with the
standards set forth herein for such Use .
Section 1775: Residential Care Facilities
1775.01   Pursuant to ORC 5119.341(B), Residential Care Facilities of six (6)
or more residents (excluding caregivers) are prohibited in certain Zoning
Districts as further identified in Article
5, Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses .
1775.02   Residential Care Facilities shall obtain a Zoning Permit prior to
commencing the use of a property as a Residential Care Facility .
1775.03   In order to promote the benefits of residential surroundings for the
residents of Residential Care Facilities and to further the goal of
deinstitutionalization of persons whose disabilities or status limit their
ability to live independently and to foster their integration into the
mainstream of society, no Residential Care Facility housing six (6) or more
residents (excluding caregivers) shall be located within 1,320 feet of any
other such Residential Care Facility .
   A)   Genoa Township may, in accordance with the procedures and provisions of
this Zoning Resolution, issue a Conditional Use Permit , or, in the case of a
Planned Development , grant a Divergence , for such a facility to locate within
1,320 feet of another facility upon a finding that:
      1)   The residents of said facility will benefit from normal residential
surroundings;
      2)   The placement within 1,320 feet of another Residential Care Facility
does not hinder the goal of deinstitutionalization;
      3)   The placement of the Residential Care Facility furthers the goal of
integrating the residents into the mainstream of society;
      4)   A hardship exists in that suitable housing is unavailable elsewhere
in the community that meets the 1,320-foot spacing requirement;
      5)   The architectural design and site layout of the proposed facility
and the location, nature, and Height of any walls, screens, and Fences shall be
compatible with adjoining land uses and the character of the neighborhood; and
      6)   The proposed facility shall fully comply with all Yard , parking,
and Sign regulations and shall comply with all health, fire, and safety
regulations and building standards.
1775.04   Service meals shall be limited to residents only.
1775.05   A loading/unloading area separate from any designated parking areas
shall be provided so that the parking of vehicles being used for such purpose
can occur adjacent to the Building without blocking any parking spaces,
ingress/egress points, emergency access ways, mail delivery locations, or waste
collection service areas.
1775.06   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 with the exception of exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting
fixtures, including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to
Single-Family Dwelling s.
1775.07   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth within this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
Section 1776: Retail Establishment , Large
1776.01   The site shall have Frontage on and direct vehicular access to a
Major Arterial Street as further designated by the current Delaware County
Thoroughfare Plan .
   A)   Any such Use situated on Lots or Tract s less than twenty (20) acres in
area shall have direct vehicular access to at least one (1) Arterial Street .
   B)   Any such Use situated on Lots or Tract s twenty (20) acres or more in
area shall have direct vehicular access to one (1) Arterial Street and one (1)
Collector Street or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street . The minimum
required separation distance of the latter shall be three hundred (300) feet
between access points, subject to the approval of the Delaware County Engineer.
   C)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
1776.02   A traffic report shall be submitted with the application for
development which identifies traffic control measures within the site and at
the points of ingress and egress warranted at peak usage of the facility.
1776.03   Site Layout Standards.
   A)   Where adjacent Internal Streets , driveway connections, and/or
Pedestrianway s are existing, approved, or proposed by a public, quasi-public,
and/or private entity, connection to such features in kind shall be required.
   B)   Where Off-Street Parking is arranged perpendicular to aisle ways
collecting traffic, a planting or landscaped island shall be required at the
intersection of interior collector aisle ways. Such an island shall begin
parallel with the last parking space or spaces at the end of a row of parking
spaces and not occupy space assigned to the aisle way itself.
   C)   A circuitous network of Pedestrianway s shall be provided. Such ways
shall also provide a connection to any existing or proposed Pedestrianway s
along or adjacent to the development.
   D)   Landscaped curb bulb-outs shall be provided wherever a Pedestrianway
crosses an Internal Street or parking drive aisle.
1776.04   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1776.05   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1776.06   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1776.07   Building Layout Standards.
   A)   Designated loading and delivery areas should be separated from parking
lots and associated vehicular circulation.
   B)   Loading and delivery for such Use s that do not have designated loading
and delivery areas shall be allowed from any side of the Building .
1776.08   Architectural Guidelines. The following item(s) are not required, but
are strongly encouraged:
   A)   There should be no blank or bare exterior walls for more than thirty-
five (35) linear feet (measured horizontally) where the wall is visible from a
Street , parking lot, or Pedestrianway . Blank or bare walls should have an
element constructed within them that creates a visual break in the wall;
examples are faux windows, pilasters, or other such permanent architectural
features achieving the effect.
Section 1777: Sales, Rental, and Service  Use s, Building s, Vehicles or
Watercraft
1777.01   The standards set forth herein shall apply to the following Use s:
Commercial Motor Vehicle  Sales, Rental, and Service ; Manufactured, Mobile, or
Recreational Building /Vehicle Sales, Rental, and Service ; Vehicle Sales,
Rental, and Service ; and Watercraft Sales, Rental, and Service .
1777.01   Such Use s shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
1777.02   All operations other than parking, display, and fueling exclusively
for crafts, equipment, machines, vehicles, etc., being sold, rented, or and/or
displayed, shall occur within a fully enclosed Building . No outdoor
dismantling, wrecking, or storage of such, including parts, shall be permitted
unless otherwise expressly permitted by this Resolution. These provisions
include, but are not necessarily limited to, detailing and repair.
1777.03   All storage of new, used, or discarded parts or materials shall be
within a fully enclosed Structure except for tires, which shall be permitted to
be stored outside in accordance with the provisions of Article
16, Section
1610.
1777.04   Berths, garage bays, loading bays, and repair bays shall not face any
Street or Lot within the Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District
unless separated from such by another Building or screened in accordance with
Sections
2003 and
2004.
1777.05   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1777.06   Such Use shall not be permitted to operate as an Automobile Salvage
or a Junkyard . No derelict, damaged, Junk Vehicles , or unlicensed vehicles
shall be stored outside on the premises for more than forty-eight (48) hours.
1777.07   Buffer areas shall be provided in accordance with the following:
   A)   Perimeter Landscaping . A minimum forty (40) foot wide landscape strip
shall be provided around the perimeter of the site with five (5) evergreen
trees having a height of not less than six (6) feet per thirty-five (35) linear
feet of perimeter. In addition, an elevated earth berm a minimum of five (5)
feet higher than the finished elevation of the parking lot(s) shall be
provided. Where existing vegetation occurs along the perimeter of the lot line,
a fifty (50) foot wide undisturbed preservation strip having existing mature
trees may be substituted for the required planting(s).
1777.08   All Structure s shall be set back a minimum of one hundred (100) feet
from the Front Lot Line .
1777.09   No portion of the Lot shall be paved with asphalt, concrete, or other
substance within seventy-five (75) feet from the Right(s)-of-Way adjoining such
Lot or Tract .
1777.10   A designated storage area shall be provided for any item on the site
awaiting detailing, repairing, servicing, washing, etc. Parking spaces required
by Article
19 shall be utilized for this purpose nor shall they satisfy this requirement.
1777.11   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1777.12   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1777.13   Any portion of the Use meeting the definition of Automobile Detail ,
Automobile Repair , Automobile Fueling/Charging Station , Automobile Wash ,
Large Retail Establishment , Parking Facility , Transportation Services and
Facilities , Truck Terminal , and/or Warehouse shall comply with the standards
set forth herein for such Use s. When standards conflict, the stricter shall
apply unless otherwise stated.
1777.14   The following standards shall only apply to Watercraft Sales, Rental,
and Service  Use s:
   A)   This Use shall also comply with the standards within this Article for
Outdoor Recreation and/or Instructional Facility .
Section 1778: Sales, Rental, and Service , Event
1778.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Heavy Equipment  Sales,
Rental, and Service shall apply.
Section 1779: Sales, Rental, and Service , Heavy Equipment
1779.01   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
1779.02   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1779.03   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1779.04   Vehicle repair, service, and/or maintenance facilities shall comply
with the standards set forth within this Article for Vehicle Sales, Rental, and
Service .
1779.05   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1780: Sales, Rental, and Service , Machine
1780.01   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
1780.02   Garage and repair bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the
Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District unless screened or separated
from such by another Building or an opaque, decorative Fence eight (8) feet in
Height .
1780.03   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1780.04   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1781: Service Business – Pet
1781.01   Any area wherein animals exercise, relieve themselves, and/or are
otherwise temporarily kept shall be located on-site. Any such area that is
located wholly or partially outdoors shall be fenced in and set back at least
one hundred and fifty (150) feet from any Principal Structure on an adjacent
Lot or Tract , measured from any point of the perimeter of such area.
   A)   Fencing shall be no more than five (5) and no more than eight (8) feet
in height, consist of waterproof material, and shall contain a self-latching
gate.
1781.02   Collected animal waste shall not be stored within five hundred (500)
feet of the perimeter of the subject Lot or Tract .
1781.03   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas, other than those for the keeping of animals, shall be hard-
surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, permeable
pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to protect surrounding
properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
1781.04   Facility entrances and exits (excluding emergency exits) facing a
Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall have a vestibule with
a second door to minimize noise.
1781.05   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 with the exception of exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting
fixtures, including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to
Single-Family Dwelling s.
1781.06   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1781.07   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth within this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
Section 1782: Sexually Oriented Business
1782.01   Sexually Oriented Businesses are permitted only in the Zoning
Districts expressly specified within this Zoning Resolution and shall be
subject to the following restrictions:
   A)   Sexually Oriented Businesses shall not be permitted within one thousand
(1,000) feet, as measured from the closest Lot Line of each Use , unless
otherwise specified, of any: Dwelling within a Residential or Planned
Residential Zoning District ; other Sexually Oriented Business ; Cemetery ,
Crematorium , Funeral Home , or Mortuary ; Cultural Center ; Day Care Centers
(all types); Educational Institutions (grades 12 or lower); Hospital ; Hotel/
Motel ; Natural Resource Protection area; Nightclubs ; public library or museum
; public park or playground; Religious Establishment ; or Substance Abuse
Treatment Clinic .
   B)   Sexually Oriented Businesses shall not be permitted on any Lot or Tract
which:
      1)   Adjoins a Planned Residential or Residential Zoning District ;
      2)   Has Frontage on an Arterial Street , Collector Street , or Freeway ;
      3)   Requires access via a Street that traverses through a Planned
Residential or Residential Zoning District .
   C)   Only one (1) Sexually Oriented Business is permitted in a single
Structure . No co-location of Sexually Oriented Businesses shall be permitted
within one (1) Structure .
   D)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
   E)   All activities other than parking must occur within the confines of a
fully enclosed Building . For the purpose of this section, covered decks,
covered patios, covered Porch es, three-season rooms, and other such spaces
shall not be considered a fully enclosed Building .
   F)   Exterior windows of any Building or Structure housing a Sexually
Oriented Business shall be designed so that the interior of the business cannot
be seen from outside.
   G)   Any outdoor area utilized by employees of the Sexually Oriented
Business shall be fully enclosed with and screened by a decorative six (6)
foot-tall opaque fence. This standard shall not apply to designated parking
areas.
   H)   Parking shall conform to the provisions of Article
19.
   I)   Exterior lighting shall conform to the provisions of Article
21.
   J)   Facility entrances and exits (excluding emergency exits) facing a
Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall have a vestibule with
a second door to minimize noise.
   K)   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
   L)   Illicit material shall not be displayed publicly.
   M)   No Sexually Oriented Business shall be open for business prior to 10:00
a.m. or later than 11:00 p.m.
   N)   Viewing booths shall not be used in conjunction with any “touching
business” that results in the touching of clients by employees or employees by
clients.
   O)   Sexually Oriented Businesses that sell both mainstream media and
Illicit material shall do so in accordance with the following:
      1)   Illicit material shall be physically and visually separated from
mainstream media and shall not be displayed publicly.
      2)   Separation of Illicit material shall be by a solid opaque-walled
enclosure at least eight (8) feet high or reaching to the ceiling.
      3)   Inventory marketed to and predominantly consumed by minors shall not
be displayed within fifteen (15) feet of the entrance to the Illicit material
section.
      4)   Access to the Illicit material section shall be controlled by
electronic or other means to provide assurance that a person under eighteen
(18) years of age will not obtain access, and the general public will not
accidentally enter this section.
      5)   The Illicit material section shall provide Sign s at its entrance
warning that persons under the age of eighteen (18) are not permitted inside.
      6)   No Adult Arcades are permitted in Sexually Oriented Businesses
selling mainstream media.
      7)   There shall be no more than one (1) designated area for Illicit
material per store.
      8)   There shall be no exterior Sign s that advertise Illicit material or
media.
   P)   Prohibited Sexually Oriented Businesses. “Touching Businesses” such as
Non-Therapeutic Massage Establishments, lap dancing, and Nude Model Studios
that involve employee-client touching are not permitted and thus prohibited in
all of Genoa Township.
Section 1783: Shopping Center  Use s
1783.01   The following standards shall to Neighborhood Shopping Center ,
Community Shopping Center , Regional Shopping Center  Use s:
   A)   The Use shall comply with all standards established for Large Retail
Establishment set forth within this Article.
   B)   Parking lots shall be designed to collect traffic and have focused
entry points onto internal Streets . Parking aisle curb cut access to internal
Streets shall be avoided, and such access shall be designed to limit curb cuts
to the minimum number possible.
   C)   Pedestrian Circulation.
      1)   A concrete sidewalk system that provides pedestrian connections to
all Building s, plazas, parks, etc., within the development shall be provided.
All such sidewalks shall be at least six (6) feet in width.
      2)   Protected Pedestrianway s shall provide a means of safe pedestrian
circulation through parking lots to the entrance/exit points of Building s.
Such protected Pedestrianway s shall be provided for every two hundred (200)
parking spaces and on sidewalks that connect Building s through parking lots.
         a)   Protected Pedestrianway s shall be concrete, shall be at least
six (6) feet in width, and shall have a four (4) foot landscape strip on both
sides of the entire length of the way, except for entry and exit points.
         b)   Trees satisfying the requirements of Article
20, Section
2005 shall be provided on each side of the sidewalk in the landscape strip at
intervals of thirty-five (35) feet on center, staggered side to side.
         c)   Protected Pedestrianway s shall lead to crosswalks that connect
to Building entry points, parks, plazas, etc.
      3)   Crosswalks shall be provided wherever a pedestrian route crosses a
Street (any type), drive aisle, driveway, parking lot, loading area, or any
other such vehicular space. Crosswalks shall be constructed of a material that
differs from the vehicular pavement and striped on both sides with white,
reflective paint.
   D)   Park and/or plaza space shall be provided pursuant to the following:
      1)   Size and number:
         a)   Community Shopping Centers shall contain at least one (1) such
space at least six thousand (6,000) square feet in size.
         b)   Regional Shopping Centers shall contain at least two (2) such
spaces, at least six thousand (6,000) square feet in size each.
      2)   The required space(s) shall be bound by parking lots on no more than
two (2) sides.
      3)   The required space(s) shall contain, at a minimum, Context-Sensitive
lighting, a decorative bench, a decorative waste receptacle, lawn space, a
paved pedestrian network connecting to the development’s Pedestrianway network,
and four trees of a species permitted by Article
20, Section
2005 spaced at least thirty-five (35) feet away from one another.
      4)   The required space(s) may also include other pedestrian-oriented
amenities, including bike racks, fitness equipment, water features, public art,
gazebos, transit shelters, and the like.
      5)   Such space(s) shall be open to the public and not be exclusive or
restricted to only certain tenants.
      6)   The space(s) and all amenities within shall be privately owned and
maintained and shall similarly be kept free of waste or litter, kept in sound
shape, and kept in good, working order, structurally and cosmetically.
      7)   Pet park (i.e., dog park) spaces shall not count towards these
requirements.
   E)   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
   F)   Directional and wayfinding and signage that is uniform throughout the
development shall be provided.
   G)   Drive-through/in/up facilities shall comply with the provisions set
forth in this Article for Drive-Through Facilities .
   H)   Architectural Guidelines. The following item(s) are not required, but
are strongly encouraged:
      1)   The designs of Building s and Structure s should be Context-
Sensitive .
      2)   There should be no blank or bare exterior walls for more than
thirty-five (35) linear feet (measured horizontally) where the wall is visible
from a Street , parking lot, or Pedestrianway . Blank or bare walls should have
an element constructed within them that creates a visual break in the wall;
examples include faux windows, pilasters, and other such permanent
architectural features that achieve the aforementioned effect.
      3)   Building s should have roofline variation.
1783.02   The following standards shall only apply to Neighborhood Shopping
Centers:
   A)   Building s that contain Retail  Use s within their footprint shall not
exceed the following with the understanding that Building s shall be considered
to be separate when there is thirty (30) or more feet between them and that
multi-tenant Building s that contain Retail  Use s that are adjacent to each
other or within thirty (30) feet shall be considered as a single Building for
these purposes:
      1)   The shopping center shall not have more than one (1) Retail
 Building with a footprint larger than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
1783.03   The following standards shall apply only to Community Shopping
Centers and Regional Shopping Centers:
   A)   An Internal Street system shall be provided.
      1)   Internal Streets shall be designed to provide a vehicular connection
from one Street to another Street while providing for through-traffic movement.
Paved ways through the shopping center that do not provide connections from one
Street to another shall be considered a drive aisle or driveway.
      2)   Internal Streets shall be accompanied by a parallel sidewalk at
least six (6) feet in width on one side.
      3)   Adjacent parking and other such paved vehicular areas shall be
separated and buffered from Internal Streets by a planting strip at least four
(4) feet in width. The required planting strip shall be further protected by
vertical concrete curbing.
      4)   Only parallel parking spaces designed in accordance with Article
19 will be permitted along Internal Streets . All other types of parking spaces
shall be prohibited.
      5)   Street trees shall be planted along both sides of Internal Streets
at a rate of one per thirty-five (35) feet on center using “solider” spacing
(i.e., one tree every 35 feet on center, in a continuous row).
         a)   Street tree species shall be limited to those set forth in
Article
20, Section
2005.
         b)   Street tree planting size requirements shall be as set forth in
Article
20, Section
2006.
         c)   Exceptions for the location and/or planting of trees altogether
in certain areas may be permitted to avoid interference with existing
utilities, easements, intersection sight triangles, environmental constraints,
or any other such practical difficulty.
      6)   Consistent decorative street lighting shall be required along all
internal Streets .
         a)   Fixtures shall stand no taller than twenty (20) feet in total
height, inclusive of any protective base.
         b)   Lighting fixtures shall be provided along both sides of each
internal Street at intervals of ninety (90) feet on center as well as at each
Street intersection and adjacent to any pedestrian gathering areas, pocket
parks, etc.
         c)   Street lighting shall also comply with the requirements of
Article
21, Section
2102.05.
         d)   Exceptions for the placement of street lights in certain areas
may be permitted to avoid interference with existing utilities, easements,
intersection sight triangles, environmental constraints, or any other such
practical difficulty.
   B)   Building s that contain Retail  Use s within their footprint shall not
exceed the following with the understanding that Building s shall be considered
to be separate when there is thirty (30) or more feet between them and that
multi-tenant Building s that contain Retail  Use s that are adjacent to each
other or within thirty (30) feet shall be considered as a single Building for
these purposes:
      1)   Community Shopping Centers shall comply with the following:
         a)   The shopping center shall not have more than one (1) Retail
 Building with a footprint larger than fifty-five (55,000) square feet.
         b)   No other Retail  Building shall have a footprint larger than
thirty-five thousand (35,000) square feet.
      2)   Regional Shopping Centers shall comply with the following:
         a)   The shopping center shall not have more than one (1) Retail
 Building with a footprint larger than one hundred and fifty thousand (150,000)
square feet.
         b)   No other Retail  Building shall have a footprint larger than one
hundred thousand (100,000) square feet.
Section 1784: Short-Term Rental  Use s
1784.01   Short-Term Rentals. The following standard shall apply to singular
Short-Term Rental  Use s not otherwise part of a Short-Term Rental Complex :
   A)   When proposed as an Accessory Use , the following standards shall
apply:
      1)   Short-Term Rental s shall only be permitted in Zoning Districts in
which they have been expressly authorized within this Resolution. Conditional
Use approval shall be required unless otherwise specified.
      2)   Such facilities shall only be permitted in a Planned Residential
District when they are listed as an expressly permitted Use in a specifically
designated and authorized location within an approved Planned Development . In
such instances, each bedroom shall be counted as a Dwelling for the purposes of
calculating the Density (Gross or Net) of the Planned Development .
      3)   Short-Term Rental s shall only be established on Lots that are one
(1) acre or greater in size.
      4)   The number of Short-Term Rental s shall be limited to one (1)
Building per Lot unless such Use is proposed in conjunction with, and the same
Lot or Tract as, an Event Facility , in which case the number of Short-Term
Rental s shall be one (1) per two (2) acres.
      5)   Only one (1) Short-Term Rental shall be permitted within a Building
.
      6)   A Short-Term Rental shall comprise no more than fifty percent (50%)
of the Principal Building .
      7)   A Short-Term Rental shall be permitted to comprise one hundred
percent (100%) of an Accessory Building .
      8)   The Floor Area of a Short-Term Rental located in an Accessory
Building shall not exceed the Floor Area of the principal Dwelling it is
accessory to.
      9)   Accessory Buildings containing a Short-Term Rental shall comply with
all provisions established in Section
1609 as well as all other standards applicable to the Zoning District in which
it is located. In instances of conflict, the provisions within this Section
shall prevail.
      10)   Short-Term Rentals shall not be permitted in any Accessory
Structure exempted from zoning control in Section
1609.01.
      11)   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 except for exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting fixtures,
including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to Single-Family
Dwelling s.
   B)   When proposed as a Principal Use , the following standards shall apply:
      1)   Short-Term Rentals shall only be permitted in Zoning Districts in
which they have been expressly authorized within this Resolution. Conditional
Use approval shall be required unless otherwise specified.
      2)   Such facilities shall only be permitted in a Planned Residential
District when they are listed as an expressly permitted Use in a specifically
designated and authorized location within an approved Planned Development . In
such instances, each bedroom shall be counted as a Dwelling for the purposes of
calculating the Density (Gross or Net) of the Planned Development .
      3)   Short-Term Rentals shall only be established on Lots that are one
(1) acre or greater in size.
      4)   The number of Short-Term Rental s shall be limited to one (1)
Building per Lot .
      5)   Only one (1) Short-Term Rental shall be permitted within a Building
.
      6)   A Short-Term Rental shall be permitted to comprise one hundred
percent (100%) of an Accessory Building .
      7)   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 except for exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting fixtures,
including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to Single-Family
Dwelling s.
      8)   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards
set forth within this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
1784.02   Short-Term Rental Complex es. The following standards shall apply to
Short-Term Rental Complex es:
   A)   Short-Term Rental Complex es shall only be permitted in Zoning
Districts in which they have been expressly authorized within this Resolution.
Conditional Use approval shall be required unless otherwise specified.
   B)   Such facilities shall only be permitted in a Planned Residential
District when they are listed as an expressly permitted Use in a specifically
designated and authorized location within an approved Planned Development . In
such instances, each bedroom shall be counted as a Dwelling for the purposes of
calculating the Density (Gross or Net) of the Planned Development .
   C)   The number of rental units shall not exceed the maximum Density
permitted in the Zoning District that the complex is located within. For the
purposes of this standard, one (1) Short-Term Rental unit shall be equal to one
(1) Dwelling .
   D)   The site shall have direct vehicular access to an Arterial and/or
Collector Street .
      1)   The minimum required separation distance between access points on
the same Street shall be three hundred (300) feet, subject to the approval of
the Delaware County Engineer.
      2)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
   E)   Short-Term Rental Complex es shall only be established on Lots that are
one (1) acre or greater in size.
   F)   All dumpster, compost/recycling/waste collection, and/or trash
compactor areas shall be located at least fifty (50) feet from the closest
Dwelling and enclosed by a solid, decorative masonry wall at least six (6) feet
in Height . The number and size of such areas shall be enough to service the
entire complex without creating a hazard to public health or safety. The
vehicular access needed to service such area(s) shall be designed so that no
servicing vehicle blocks any parking spaces, ingress/egress points, emergency
access ways, primary Pedestrianway s, or mail delivery locations.
   G)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
   H)   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 except for exterior Porch , patio, garage, and/or garden lighting fixtures,
including carriage lights and yard lamps, that are customary to Single-Family
Dwelling s.
   I)   A paved pedestrian network of sidewalks, trails, paths, and designated
crosswalks shall be provided to provide connected, non-motorized routes between
all Building s within the complex.
   J)   If a Swimming Pool is proposed as part of the Use , the Standards set
forth within this Article for Swimming Pool s shall apply.
Section 1785: Solar Facilities
1785.01   Standards set forth within Article
22, Section
2206 for Small Solar Facilities shall apply.
1785.02   Standards set forth within Article
22, Section
2206 for Large Solar Facilities shall apply.
Section 1786: Stables, Commercial /Riding Academy
1786.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Recreation and/or
Instructional Facility , Outdoor shall apply.
Section 1787: Stadium
1787.01   Standards set forth within this Article for Amphitheater shall apply.
1787.02   Standards set forth within this Article for Arena shall apply.
1787.03   The minimum distance from the end of any Building to the end of any
adjacent Building shall be twenty (20) feet unless a greater distance is
required by an applicable building code.
1787.04   The maximum length of any Building shall be five hundred (500) feet,
excluding bleachers or seating areas.
Section 1788: Storage Terminal s, Yard s, and Community Lots
1788.01   The following standards shall apply only to Storage Terminal s:
   A)   Standards set forth within this Article for Bulk Storage Warehouse
shall apply.
1788.02   The following standards shall apply only to Storage Yards:
   A)   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
   B)   All storage that is not totally enclosed within a Building shall be
fully enclosed with a secure and opaque Fence and/or wall standing eight (8)
feet in Height .
   C)   Stored materials shall not project from or be visible beyond the top of
the enclosure required herein.
   D)   Where Outdoor Storage is located adjacent to a Residential or Planned
Residential District , there shall be planted along the outside face of the
required screening evergreen trees adhering to the provisions of Section
2006 at thirty (30) foot intervals.
   E)   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor Storage
areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete
pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is proven to
protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other disturbances.
   F)   A list of materials or products that could decompose by detonation
shall be provided to the Genoa Township Fire Department. Such materials shall
include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives including lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate, and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
1788.03   The following standards shall apply only to Community Storage Lot s:
   A)   All storage that is not totally enclosed within a Building shall be
fully enclosed with a secure and opaque Fence and/or wall standing eight (8)
feet in Height .
   B)   Stored materials shall not project from, or be visible beyond, the top
of the enclosure required herein.
1788.04   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1788.05   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1788.06   No activities involving the storage, utilization, or manufacture of
materials or products that could decompose by detonation shall be permitted
except as specifically authorized by the Township. Such materials shall
include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives including lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate, and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium. A list of such materials shall be provided
to the Genoa Township Fire Department.
1788.07   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
Section 1789: Studio, Production
1789.01   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1789.02   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1789.03   Exterior lighting shall conform with the provisions of Article
21 except for temporary lighting used for productions during the permitted
hours of outdoor operations set forth within this Section.
1789.04   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1789.05   Outdoor operations of any such facility within five hundred (500)
feet of any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District shall cease
between the overnight hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Eastern Time. This
provision shall not apply to incidental activities or routine maintenance of
such facilities.
Section 1790: Substance Abuse Treatment Clinic
1790.01   This Use shall be subject to Section
1702.05.
1790.02   Substance Abuse Treatment Clinic s are permitted only in the Zoning
Districts expressly specified within this Zoning Resolution and shall be
subject to the following restrictions:
   A)   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street or Collector Street .
   B)   Substance Abuse Treatment Clinic s shall not be permitted within one
thousand (1,000) feet, as measured from the closest Lot Line of each Use ,
unless otherwise specified, of any: Dwelling within a Residential or Planned
Residential Zoning District : other Substance Abuse Treatment Clinic ; Cemetery
, Crematorium , Funeral Home , or Mortuary ; Cultural Center ; Day Care Centers
(all types); Educational Institutions (grades 12 or lower); Hospital ; Hotel/
Motel ; Natural Resource Protection area; Nightclub s; public library or museum
; public park or playground; or Religious Establishment .
   C)   Only one (1) Substance Abuse Treatment Clinic is permitted in a single
Structure . No co-location of Substance Abuse Treatment Clinics shall be
permitted within one (1) Structure .
1790.03   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1790.04   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
Section 1791: Telecommunications Tower s and Accessory
1791.01   Standards set forth within Article
22, Section
2204 for Telecommunications Tower s shall apply.
Section 1792: Transportation Services and Facilities
1792.01   The Use shall not be located on a Lot with Frontage on an Arterial
Street but shall be located on a Lot accessed from a Street with direct access
to an Arterial Street .
1792.02   Garage and repair bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the
Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District unless screened or separated
from such by another Building or an opaque, decorative Fence eight (8) feet in
Height .
1792.03   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1792.04   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
Section 1793: Truck Terminal
1793.01   The Street providing access to such Use shall not traverse through a
Planned Residential Zoning District or Residential Zoning District unless said
Street is classified as an Arterial or Collector Street by the current Delaware
County Thoroughfare Plan .
   A)   Vehicular access to the shall be located within two-thousand five
hundred (2,500) feet of access to an Arterial Street .
   B)   Driveway access shall be limited to a single two-way or two single one-
way driveways from each Street on which access is permitted. Shared access with
adjacent properties is encouraged.
   C)   All driveways, both exterior and interior, as well as exterior storage
areas/pads and Off-Street Parking Lot s shall be paved with asphaltic concrete,
Portland cement concrete pavement, or permeable pavement. Gravel shall not be
permitted.
1793.02   Ingress, egress, and internal traffic circulation shall be designed
to minimize congestion during peak usage of the facility.
1793.03   All Building s on site shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from any Lot Line shared with a Planned Residential Zoning District or
Residential Zoning District .
1793.04   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1793.05   Fuel pumps and vacuums shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet
from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
1793.06   All operations, including maintenance but excluding parking, shall
occur within a fully enclosed Building . Such Building s shall be permitted to
have doors necessary for the entering and exiting of vehicles as well as for
the loading and unloading of freight. Such doors shall remain closed when not
being used for one or more of the aforementioned purposes unless keeping them
closed would endanger public health or safety (e.g., ventilation of noxious
fumes).
1793.07   All materials and equipment must be stored within a fully enclosed
Building when not in use.
1793.08   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1793.09   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1793.10   No Structure on the premises shall be used as a Dwelling .
1793.11   No activities involving the storage, utilization, or manufacture of
materials or products that could decompose by detonation shall be permitted
except as authorized by the Genoa Township Fire Department. Such materials
shall include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives such as lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate; and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium. A list of such materials shall be provided
to the Genoa Township Fire Department.
Section 1794: Utilities, Private
1794.01   The Landscaping , layout, lighting, screening, and signage of such
shall be Context-Sensitive .
1794.02   All materials and equipment must be stored within a fully enclosed
Building when not in use.
1794.03   Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) shall comply with Article
22, Section
2207.
1794.04   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1794.05   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
1794.06   Architectural Guidelines. The following item(s) are not required, but
are strongly encouraged:
      A)   Architectural design should be Context-Sensitive .
Section 1795: Warehouse  Use s
1795.01   The standards within this Section shall apply to the following
Warehouse  Use s: Bulk Storage Warehouse , Distribution Center Warehouse , Mini
and/or Self-Storage Warehouse , Records Warehouse , and Retail Warehouse .
1795.02   Location and Access Requirements.
   A)   For all Warehouse  Use s except Retail Warehouse : The Street providing
access to such Use shall not traverse through a Planned Residential Zoning
District or Residential Zoning District unless said Street is classified as an
Arterial or Collector Street by the current Delaware County Thoroughfare Plan .
   B)   Retail Warehouse : The site shall have Frontage on and direct vehicular
access to a Major Arterial Street as further designated by the current Delaware
County Thoroughfare Plan .
      1)   Any such Use situated on Lots or Tract s less than twenty (20) acres
in area shall have direct vehicular access to at least one (1) Arterial Street
.
      2)   Any such Use situated on Lots or Tract s twenty (20) acres or more
in area shall have direct vehicular access to one (1) Arterial Street and one
(1) Collector Street or two (2) access points on an Arterial Street . The
minimum required separation distance of the latter shall be three hundred (300)
feet between access points, subject to the approval of the Delaware County
Engineer.
      3)   Direct vehicular access to a Local Street shall be prohibited.
   C)   Ingress, egress, and internal traffic circulation shall be designed to
minimize congestion during peak usage of the facility.
   D)   A traffic report shall be submitted with the application for
development that identifies traffic control measures within the site and at the
points of ingress and egress warranted at peak usage of the facility.
   E)   The location of Building s and Structure s, traffic circulation, and
parking areas shall be designed to provide adequate access for emergency
medical vehicles and firefighting equipment.
1795.03   Lot Size.
   A)   The minimum Lot Area requirement for the following Warehouse  Use s
shall be ten (10) acres: Bulk Storage Warehouse , Distribution Center Warehouse
, and Mini and/or Self-Storage Warehouse . There shall be no minimum Lot Area
requirement for any other type of Warehouse  Use unless otherwise specified
elsewhere in this Resolution.
1795.04   Loading bays shall not face any Street or Lot within the Residential
or Planned Residential Zoning District unless separated from such by another
Building or screened in accordance with Sections
2003 and
2004.
1795.05   Any exterior fuel pumps and/or vacuums shall be set back at least
fifty (50) feet from the Front Lot Line and ten (10) feet from any Side or Rear
Lot Line .
1795.06   Buffer areas shall be provided as follows for any perimeter adjacent
to any Lot containing a Dwelling :
   A)   Perimeter Landscaping . A minimum thirty (30) foot wide landscape strip
shall be provided around the perimeter of the site, except along Streets , with
four (4) evergreen trees having a height of not less than six (6) feet and six
(6) shrubs per thirty-five (35) linear feet of perimeter. In addition, an
elevated earth berm a minimum of three (3) feet higher than the finished
elevation of the parking lot(s) shall be provided. Where existing vegetation
occurs along the perimeter of the Lot Line , a forty (40) foot wide
preservation strip having existing mature trees may be substituted.
1795.07   Nuisance and Hazard Mitigation.
   A)   The emissions of dust, dirt, fly ash, fumes, vapors, or gases that can
cause any damage to human health, to animals, vegetation, or to property, or
which can cause any soiling, or staining of persons or property at any point
beyond the Lot Line of the use creating the emission are prohibited.
   B)   Noise Control standards of Section
1702.06 shall apply to this Use .
   C)   No materials or waste matter of any kind shall be deposited upon a lot
in such form or manner that it may be transported off the lot by natural causes
or forces.
   D)   No materials or other substances that can contaminate wells,
watercourses, or potable water supplies shall be deposited on the site.
   E)   No activities involving the storage, utilization, or manufacture of
materials or products that could decompose by detonation shall be permitted
except as specifically authorized by the Township. Such materials shall
include, but need not be limited to, all primary explosives including lead
oxide and lead sulfate; all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, RDS,
tetryl, and ammonium nitrate; propellants and components thereof such as
nitrocellulose, black powder, ammonium perchlorate and nitroglycerin; blasting
explosives such as dynamite, powdered magnesium, potassium chlorate, potassium
permanganates, and potassium nitrate, and nuclear fuels and reactor elements
such as uranium 235 and plutonium. A list of such materials shall be provided
to the Genoa Township Fire Department.
   F)   No Warehouse or storage Building , or part thereof, may be used for a
Dwelling purpose at any time.
   G)   All maintenance operations and storage of materials shall be conducted
inside a Building , except as otherwise provided for herein.
   H)   Storage on top of any Building or Structure (e.g., roof) shall not be
permitted.
   I)   No business (i.e., non-residential) activity, temporary or permanent,
other than the permitted Principal Warehouse  Use and any lawful Accessory Uses
shall be conducted on the premises or within any Warehouse space. This
prohibition shall not apply to the lawful rental and utilization of storage
units in accordance with a valid Legal Approval .
   J)   No direct beams or rays of light from exterior lighting fixtures, Sign
s, or vehicles maneuvering on the premises shall be permitted ot shine in the
private living areas of any adjacent residential properties. This prohibition
shall not apply to vehicles entering or exiting the site.
1795.08   The ground surface of any parking, driving, loading, or Outdoor
Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement
concrete pavement, permeable pavement, or another suitable alternative that is
proven to protect surrounding properties and activity from dust and other
disturbances.
1795.09   The following additional standards shall apply to Mini and/or Self-
Storage Warehouse  Use s:
   A)   Building Dimensions and Coverage:
      1)   The maximum permitted Height of any Building shall be twenty (20)
feet.
      2)   The minimum distance from the face of any storage Building to the
face of any adjacent storage Building shall be twenty-eight (28) feet for
storage units that are less than fifteen (15) feet in depth. For storage units
with a depth of fifteen (15) feet or greater, the required separation shall be
increased to forty-two (42) feet.
      3)   The minimum distance from the end of any storage Building to the end
of another storage Building shall be at least twenty (20) feet.
      4)   The maximum length of any storage Building shall be two hundred
(200) feet.
      5)   The maximum size of any single storage unit shall be fourteen (14)
feet wide, forty (40) feet deep, and one (1) Story . In instances where storage
units are placed back-to-back, the maximum width of the Building shall not
exceed forty (40) feet.
      6)   No more than forty percent (40%) of the Lot or Tract shall comprise
of Building s containing storage.
      7)   No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the Lot or Tract shall
comprise of outdoor areas reserved and/or designated for storage.
1795.10   The following additional standards shall apply to Retail Warehouse
 Use s:
   A)   Building Layout Standards.
      1)   Designated loading and delivery areas shall be separate from parking
lots and associated vehicular circulation.
      2)   Loading and delivery for such Use s that do not have designated
loading and delivery areas shall be allowed from any side of the Building .
1795.11   Architectural Guidelines. The following item(s) are not required for
any Warehouse  Use , but are strongly encouraged:
   A)   The Street -side walls of any Building should be Context-Sensitive and
utilize finished materials that incorporate architectural design elements that
create continuity with adjacent Building s. Metal siding and uniform, plain
split-face blocks should not be used on Street -side walls of Building s.
Brick, stone, glass, and other similar high-quality materials are also
encouraged on such walls.
   B)   Street -side Building facades should incorporate wall plane projections
of a recessing nature, having a depth of at least three percent (3%) of the
length of the façade and extending no more than twenty percent (20%) of the
length of the façade.
Section 1796: Wind Farm, Small
1796.01   Standards set forth within Article
22, Section
2205 for Wind Farm s shall apply.
ARTICLE 18: Sign Standards
Section 1801 Introduction
1801.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   Sign s obstruct views, may distract motorists, displace alternative
uses for land, and pose other problems that legitimately call for regulation.
In addition to causing distractions and obstructions that may contribute to
traffic and pedestrian accidents, Sign s are as much subject to control as
noise, odors, debris, and like characteristics of a use that, if not controlled
and regulated, may become a Nuisance to adjacent properties or the community in
general.
   B)   The intent and purpose of this Article is to regulate the size, color,
illumination, movement, materials, location, Height , and condition of all Sign
s for exterior observation and to balance the protection of public health,
safety, and general welfare of Genoa Township with the need to adequately
identify, communicate, and advertise via Sign s, by:
      1)   preserving the noncommercial character of residential neighborhoods;
      2)   providing reasonable, yet appropriate, conditions for identifying
businesses and services rendered in commercial districts;
      3)   reducing traffic and pedestrian hazards by restricting Sign s,
including Signs with lights and/or motion, which may exceed the viewers'
capacity to receive information or which increase the probability of accidents
created by distracting attention or obstructing vision;
      4)   promoting expeditious and safe navigation and wayfinding for
pedestrian and vehicular traffic through legible and appropriate Sign s;
      5)   preserving order, attractiveness, and cleanliness; maintaining open
spaces, avoiding the appearance of clutter, and preventing Nuisance s and
invitations to vandalism;
      6)   requiring Sign s be constructed and maintained in a structurally
sound and attractive condition;
      7)   maintaining property values and ensuring compatibility with
surrounding landscape and architecture, including, but not limited to, areas of
historical significance;
      8)   encouraging aesthetic quality in the design, location, and size of
all Sign s; and
      9)   protecting and encouraging a more attractive economic, business, and
overall physical appearance of the community.
1801.02   This Article shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the
First Amendment guarantee of free speech. If any provision of this Article is
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such finding must not
affect the validity of other provisions of this Article which can be given
effect without the invalid provision.
1801.03   Genoa Township does not have jurisdiction to regulate Sign s on
property of the United States Government, the State of Ohio, Delaware County,
or those Signs erected pursuant to, and in furtherance of, a governmental
function thereof.
Section 1802: General Requirements
1802.01   Scope and Applicability.
   A)   The requirements of this Article apply to all Sign s, Sign Structure s,
Awnings, and other types of Sign devices located within Genoa Township, as
defined within this Resolution, except as may be exempted or otherwise
specified.
   B)   All Government Sign s are hereby exempted from the restrictions of this
Article and need not comply with any restriction contained hereinafter. The
inclusion of “government” in describing some Sign s does not intend to subject
any of those entities to regulation but, instead, is intended to help clarify
the type of Sign that falls within the immunities of government from
regulation.
1802.02   No Zoning Permit shall be issued for an existing or proposed Sign
requiring such permit pursuant to this Zoning Resolution unless said Sign is
found to be consistent with the requirements of this Resolution as well as with
any Legal Approval applicable to said Sign .
   A)   Content of the message displayed on the Sign , whether it be Commercial
Speech or Non-Commercial Speech , shall not be reviewed or considered in
determining whether to approve or deny a Zoning Permit for a Sign unless said
speech is found to be Illicit.
   B)   Any conflicting or more restrictive Sign provision located within any
Legal Approval granted prior to the adoption of this Article shall supersede
this Article unless said provision is found to be illegal or content-based, in
which case this Article shall prevail.
   C)   Modifications or Alterations to a Sign with pre-existing Legal Approval
may require new or amended Legal Approval as established within, and in
accordance with, this Zoning Resolution.
1802.03   Measurement.
   A)   With regard to any existing or proposed Sign , the Zoning Inspector
shall be authorized to determine each of the following:
      1)   The type of Sign (including the type of Temporary Sign ) within the
definitions contained within this Resolution; or
      2)   Whether a Sign Structure has a communicative element to it and is
therefore part of the Sign Area ; or
      3)   The Height , Width, or other measurable characteristics of a Sign or
component thereof; and
      4)   Whether a Sign is Abandoned or Deteriorated as defined herein.
   B)   For Sign s with Internal illumination , the entire lighted surface
shall be considered part of the Sign Area .
   C)   For spherical Sign Structure s or portion(s) thereof, the sphere shall
be dissected by an imaginary line through the center of the sphere. The surface
area of the half sphere shall be counted as the Sign Face . The Zoning
Inspector shall have discretion to use similar methods.
   D)   For cubical Sign Structure s or portion(s) thereof, the area of all
display faces (all faces not parallel to the ground) shall be included in
determining the Sign Area . The Zoning Inspector shall have discretion to use
similar methods.
   E)   The Zoning Inspector shall have the discretion to use a similar method
of calculation identified in Sections
1803.02.C and
1803.02.D for Sign Structure s that are not flat but have non-cubical or non-
spherical shapes.
   F)   Where a Sign has two (2) or more display faces, the area of all faces
of the Sign shall be included in determining the Sign Area unless:
      1)   Two (2) display faces join back-to-back, parallel to each other, and
are not more than twenty-four (24) inches apart; or
      2)   Such faces meet and form a V-angle of less than forty-five (45)
degrees.
1802.04   Reserved.
1802.05   All Sign s erected or located within Genoa Township shall be in
conformance with the following requirements unless otherwise exempted and/or
regulated by this Resolution:
   A)   Sign Structure s, and any Sign affixed to a Sign Structure , shall not
be erected within, nor project into, any public Right-of-Way unless otherwise
specified within this Article or authorized by the entity owning said Right-of-
Way . Written proof of such authorization shall be required at the time of
permit application.
   B)   Sign s shall not be erected on, or project over, any public property
unless otherwise authorized by the public entity owning said property. Written
proof of such authorization shall be required at the time of permit
application.
   C)   Sign s shall not prevent free ingress to, or free egress from, any
door, window, or fire escape.
   D)   Sign s shall not obstruct free and clear visibility at any
intersection.
   E)   Sign s shall not be located or designed to interfere with or obstruct
the view of any authorized traffic control Sign , signal, or device.
   F)   No Sign shall be designed to mimic, or cause a reasonable person to
confuse said Sign , with a Government Sign or any public safety, warning, or
notice Sign or device.
   G)   Illumination.
      1)   External Illumination . External Illumination of a Sign shall be
permitted by a white, steady, stationary light of reasonable intensity directed
solely at the Sign and/or otherwise prevented from beaming directly onto
adjacent properties or Right-of-Ways. Light fixtures shall be screened from
view by site grading or evergreen shrubs. No exposed light sources are
permitted.
      2)   Internal Illumination . Internal Illumination of a Sign shall be
permitted by white interior light of reasonable intensity with primary and
secondary images lit or silhouetted on an opaque background. No additional
background lighting or illuminated borders shall be permitted. This standard
shall not apply to EElectronic Message Center (EMC) Signs or Changeable Copy
signs, where permitted.
      3)   The level of illumination emitted or reflected from a Sign shall not
be of intensity sufficient to constitute a demonstrable hazard to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic on any Right-of-Way , Lot , easement, or parking lot from
which the Sign may be viewed.
      4)   No Sign shall make use of rotating, fluctuating, blinking, flashing
, or intermittent lights. All lighting, indirect or internal, shall consist of
constant illumination which is uniform in intensity.
      5)   All lighting shall be properly directed and shielded to not create a
Nuisance to surrounding properties or Right-of-Ways because of glare.
      6)   Illumination of Sign s via band or strip lighting shall be
prohibited.
      7)   Illumination shall not exceed one (1) Foot-candle at any Lot Line
located immediately adjacent to a Planned Residential or Residential Zoning
District .
      8)   No Sign within a Planned Residential or Residential Zoning District
, or within one-hundred and fifty (150) feet of a Residential Zoning District ,
shall be illuminated between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00 a.m.
      9)   Lighting installed in association with a Sign Structure , such as on
the top of a Fence, pier, or wall, shall be subject to Article
21.
   H)   Sign s shall not be posted, Attached , or otherwise applied to trees,
vegetation, rocks, traffic control Sign s, bus shelters, utility poles,
benches, street lights, waste receptacles, newspaper vending machines or boxes,
or any other unapproved supporting Structure , unless otherwise permitted by
this Resolution.
   I)   Sign s shall not be erected or located upon any property or Building
without the consent of the owner(s) or an authorized representative. Written
proof of such authorization shall be required at the time of application for
Signs requiring a Zoning Permit .
   J)   All Sign s shall be placed so that at least six (6) feet of sidewalk,
walkway, bikeway, pathway, or trail width clearance is provided and maintained
at all times to allow for safe and convenient movement of pedestrians and
bicyclists. No Sign s shall be placed within a Sidewalk , walkway, bikeway,
pathway, or trail improvement less than six (6) feet wide.
   K)   The maximum permitted Sign Height of a Sign shall be eight (8) feet
unless otherwise regulated or exempted by this Article.
   L)   No Sign shall extend or project above or beyond the roof line of a
Building , Awning , Canopy , or Marquee .
   M)   The minimum vertical clearance for all Building Mounted Sign s shall be
ten (10) feet, measured from the bottom of the Sign Structure to the finished
grade immediately below the Sign . Such Sign s erected over an area
inaccessible to pedestrians or vehicles shall have no minimum vertical
clearance requirement.
   N)   The maximum projection distance from a Building for any Building
Mounted Sign shall be four (4) feet.
   O)   Sign s shall not contain movement, the appearance of optical illusion
or movement, or varying light intensity.
1802.06   All Sign s shall be designed, constructed, and maintained in
accordance with the following standards:
   A)   Any and all applicable building, electrical, or other such third-party
permits shall be obtained from Delaware County or any other public agency
having authority prior to Erection of a Sign .
   B)   All Sign s shall be maintained in good structural condition and in
compliance with this Resolution as well as all applicable building codes,
electrical codes, or other such codes, standards, or resolutions adopted by a
legitimate public entity.
   C)   All Sign s shall be maintained in good physical condition with no
chipped, peeling, or fading faces or structures and no loose or missing
material or lettering. Metal surfaces shall be maintained free of rust. All
Sign s shall be maintained free of Deterioration, decomposition, and/or decay.
   D)   Maintenance of Sign s and associated Landscaping shall be assumed to be
the responsibility of the owner of the property or Building where the Sign is
located, unless a legally executed easement, covenant, maintenance agreement,
contract, or other such document stating otherwise is provided to the township
as evidence proving otherwise.
1802.07   The standards, restrictions, provisions, or requirements of any
legitimate and recognized public government entity, agency, law, act, or order,
having jurisdiction, such as, but not limited to, the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA ), shall supersede any conflicting standards,
restrictions, provisions, or requirements within this Zoning Resolution.
Approval of a Zoning Permit for a Sign by Genoa Township shall not constitute
verification of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA ) or
any other standard, restriction, provision, or requirement of any non-Township
entity, agency, law, act, or order.
1802.08   Refacing or repainting of any existing Sign , whether it be a legal
Non-conforming Sign or erected under an approved Zoning Permit , shall be
permitted without obtaining a Zoning Permit so long as said Sign has no open or
pending zoning violations and is one hundred (100%) consistent with the
existing Sign that is being replaced in regards to; Sign Area , Sign Structure
, Sign Height , type, location, spacing, number, dimensions, Setback s,
vertical clearance, projection distance, illumination, and brightness. Such
Sign s will still be required to comply with all other applicable provisions or
standards of this Zoning Resolution. The Zoning Inspector shall have discretion
to determine whether the Refacing or repainting of a Sign complies with the
spirit and intent of this subsection.
1802.09   Any Refacing of a Sign that requires the modification, Alteration ,
or expansion of said Sign shall not be eligible for Zoning Permit exemption and
shall be required to comply with all applicable standards of this Resolution.
Such a Sign must be brought into compliance with all provisions of this
Resolution within thirty (30) days.
Section 1803: Authorized Sign s for All Zoning Districts
1803.01   The following Signs are authorized in every Zoning District without a
Zoning Permit , unless otherwise restricted or prohibited by Section
1811, Table of Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District :
   A)   Government Sign s in accordance with Section
1802.01.B of this Article.
   B)   Any Sign required to be posted by the Federal government, the State of
Ohio, Delaware County, Genoa Township, or a sub-entity thereof.
   C)   Traffic control devices on private or public property erected and
maintained to comply with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD)
adopted by the Federal Highway Administration (FHA) as well as:
      1)   Sign s located at the enclosed end of a designated parking space or
at the side of a parallel parking space that stand no taller than seven (7)
feet in Height with a Sign Area not to exceed eight (8) square feet.
      2)   Pavement markings in drive aisles, parking spaces, and other such
areas.
   D)   Any non-Temporary Sign permitted by Section
1811, Table of Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District , whose Sign Area equals
eight (8) square feet or less and whose Sign Height measures four (4) feet or
less. Any Sign with a Sign Area of two (2) square feet or less that is also two
(2) feet or less in Height , regardless of type, shall also be permitted unless
said type is outright prohibited in Section
1808.
   E)   Any Sign permitted by Section
1811, Table of Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District , whose Sign Area is
sixty (60) square feet or less in size, is set back one hundred (100) feet or
more from any Lot Line and is not intended to be visible from any immediately
adjacent Right-of-Way .
   F)   Address Sign s subject to the size and location restrictions contained
in this Article.
   G)   Awning Signs.
   H)   Billboard Signs
      1)   Minimum Acreage required: One (1) acre.
      2)   Maximum Number permitted: One (1) per Lot or Tract .
         a)   No Billboard Sign shall be located within two thousand six
hundred and forty (2,640) feet in any direction of any other existing or
proposed Billboard Sign.
         b)   No Billboard Sign shall be permitted on any Lot or Tract which
already contains a Sign .
         c)   No other Sign shall be permitted on any Lot or Tract containing a
Billboard  Sign .
      3)   Maximum Sign Area permitted:
         a)    Non-Residential Zoning Districts : Three hundred (300) square
feet.
         b)    Planned Residential and Residential Zoning Districts : Sixty-
four (64) square feet.
         c)    No Billboard  Sign shall have more than two (2) sides or
surfaces. The display area of any one (1) side or surface shall not exceed one-
half of the total display area permitted.
         d)    The length of a Billboard  Sign shall not exceed four (4) times
the Height of the Sign Area .
      4)   Maximum Sign Height permitted:
         a)    Non-Residential Zoning Districts : Thirty-five (35) feet.
         b)    Planned Residential and Residential Zoning Districts : Fifteen
(15) feet.
      5)   Minimum Setback s:
         a)    Seventy-five (75) feet from any right-of-way or Lot Line
adjacent, in part or in whole, to a Non-Residential Zoning District .
         b)    One hundred (100) feet from Lot Lines which are immediately
adjacent, in part or in whole, to a Planned Residential or Residential Zoning
District .
         c)    One thousand (1,000) feet from any Residential Dwelling .
      6)   Illumination permitted: External Illumination in accordance with
Section
1802.05.G. No direct ray of light shall extend above or beyond the face of the
Sign .
      7)   No Billboard , or portion thereof, shall consist of an Electronic
Message Center (EMC) Sign or an Animation or Video Display Sign.
   I)   Bulletin Boards of twelve (12) square feet or less.
   J)   Flags. Sign Height restrictions within this Article shall not apply to
Flags. Flags may encroach into a public Right-of-Way so long as:
      1)   The Flag’s supporting Structure does not encroach into the public
Right-of-Way pursuant to Section
1802.05.A; and
      2)   The minimum vertical clearance of the bottom of the Flag over the
public Right-of-Way is at least ten (10) feet.
   K)   Human Sign s.
   L)   Integral Ground Signs.
   M)   Landscape Signs.
   N)   Light Pole Signs.
   O)   Monuments, sculptures, and other similar forms of public or private
artwork.
   P)   Sidewalk Signs;
      1)   Any such Sign shall not exceed ten (10) square feet in area per
side.
      2)   Any such Sign shall not exceed four (4) feet in total Height ,
including the Sign Structure .
      3)   Location:
         a)    Any such Sign s shall only be placed within two (2) feet of a
sidewalk, walkway, bikeway, trail, or other similar non-motorized Pedestrianway
.
         b)    Any such Sign s shall be located no closer than two (2) feet to
any public or private street Right-of-Way .
   Q)   Vehicle Signs and other Sign s and/or graphics that are printed,
wrapped, painted, or otherwise permanently or semi-permanently adhered or
incidental to machinery, computers, pumps, and/or other similar pieces of
equipment.
   R)   Window Signs located on the interior side of said window.
   S)   Any Sign located inside a Building or a Structure .
   T)   Sign s specifically related to the practice of Agriculture ,
Agritourism , or the operation of a Farm Market pursuant to ORC 512.20, as may
be amended.
   U)   Any existing Sign , whether it be a legal Non-conforming Use or erected
under an approved Zoning Permit , that has no open or pending zoning violations
may be replaced with a new Sign , regardless of content, without having to
obtain a new Zoning Permit so long as the new Sign is one-hundred percent
(100%) consistent with the existing Sign that is being replaced in regards to
type, location, spacing, number, Sign Area , dimensions, Sign Height , setback
s, vertical clearance, projection distance, illumination, and brightness. Such
Sign s will still be required to comply with all other applicable provisions or
standards of this Zoning Resolution. Any replacement Sign that requires the
modification, Alteration , or expansion of the structure(s) or components
supporting the Sign shall not be eligible for Zoning Permit exemption and shall
be required to obtain a Zoning Permit and comply with all applicable standards
of this Zoning Resolution. The Zoning Inspector shall have the discretion to
determine whether the replacement of a Sign complies with the spirit and intent
of this subsection.
1803.02   Temporary  Sign s are authorized in every Zoning District without a
Zoning Permit unless otherwise restricted or prohibited by Section
1811, Table of Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District .
   A)   Temporary  Sign s, Large.
      1)   Such Sign s shall not require a Zoning Permit so long as they are
erected for no more than seventy-two (72) consecutive hours in a thirty (30)
day period.
      2)   Such Sign s shall still be required to comply with the standards
established in Section
1803.02.C below.
   B)   Temporary Signs, Small.
      1)   The maximum number permitted on a Lot shall be as follows:
         a)    Non-Residential Zoning Districts : One (1) per Lot plus one (1)
per every two hundred (200) feet of Lot  Frontage on a public or private Street
.
         b)    Planned Residential and Residential Zoning Districts : One (1)
per Tract plus one (1) per every one-hundred and fifty (150) feet of Frontage
on a public or private Street .
         c)    Small Temporary Signs located seventy-five (75) feet or more
away from a Right-of-Way , regardless of Zoning District , shall not count
towards the maximums.
      2)   Such Sign shall have no minimum spacing requirements.
      3)   Such Sign shall be placed no closer than two (2) feet to any Lot
Line or street Right-of-Way .
      4)   Such Signs shall be permitted to be erected without a Zoning Permit
for no more than ninety (90) consecutive days. Small Temporary Signs erected
for more than ninety (90) consecutive days shall require a Zoning Permit and
shall be subject to the restrictions set forth under Section
1803.01.Q3) below.
   C)   All Temporary Signs that are not exempt from permit, as identified
above, shall adhere to the following:
      1)   Maximum number permitted: One (1) per each Lot or each Limited
Common Element Area , which must be situated on said Lot or Limited Common
Element Area , and one (1) per Tract .
         a)    Small Temporary Signs not requiring a Zoning Permit pursuant to
Section
1803.01.Q shall not count towards this requirement.
         b)    Temporary Signs that are erected in lieu of a permitted Sign
that is being repaired or replaced shall not count towards this requirement so
long as said Sign is erected in the exact same location and is equal to or
smaller than the Sign it is temporarily replacing.
         c)   The number of Signs on any single given Lot , Limited Common
Element Area , or Tract shall not count toward the permitted maximum on any
other Lot , Limited Common Element Area , or Tract .
         d)   The number of Signs permitted, in whole or in part, on any Lot ,
Limited Common Element Area , or Tract shall not be transferable to any other
Lot , Limited Common Element Area , or Tract .
      2)   Maximum Sign Area permitted per Lot , Limited Common Element Area ,
or Tract :
         a)    Non-Residential Zoning Districts : Sixty (60) square feet.
         b)    Planned Residential and Residential Zoning Districts : Thirty
(30) square feet.
         c)    Temporary Signs erected in lieu of a permitted Sign that is
being repaired or replaced, for a period less than ninety (90) consecutive
days, shall be permitted to be as large as the Sign it is temporarily
replacing, so long as it is erected in the exact same location as the Sign
being repaired or replaced.
         d)   Permitted square footage on any single given Lot , Limited Common
Element Area , or Tract shall not count towards the permitted maximum on any
other Lot , Limited Common Element Area , or Tract .
         e)   Permitted square footage, or portions thereof, shall not be
transferable to any other Lot , Limited Common Element Area , or Tract .
      3)   Maximum Sign Height permitted: Six (6) feet.
      4)   Minimum Setback s: Ten (10) feet from any Right-of-Way or Lot Line .
      5)   Such Signs shall not be permitted to be affixed to and/or between
one or more of the following: other Signs, trees/shrubs, utility poles/boxes,
lighting fixtures, boulders, flag poles, vehicles, recreational equipment ,
trailers, merchandise displays (pools, hot tubs, recreational equipment ,
construction equipment, material piles, etc.), automatic teller/vending
machines, newspaper stands, phone booths, kiosks, traffic control signs,
Cluster Box Units, bus shelters, and the like.
      6)   Illumination permitted: External Illumination in accordance with
Section
1802.05.G.
      7)   Zoning Permit s for such Sign s shall be renewed by the applicant of
record for the Sign , or their designee, once a year. For the purposes of this
provision, a year shall be measured from the date the original Zoning Permit
was issued.
1803.03   Any Sign permitted by Section
1811, Table of Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District , but not specifically
identified as being exempt from obtaining a Zoning Permit in Sections
1803.01 and
1803.02 above, shall require a Zoning Permit be obtained prior to installation
unless otherwise specified herein.
Section 1804: Non-Residential Zoning District Regulations
1804.01   The following restrictions shall apply to all Lots and Tract s within
a Non-Residential Zoning District .
1804.02   Explanation and Rationale. The purpose of these Non-Residential
Zoning District Regulations is to allow for commercial character of non-
residential neighborhoods in accordance with Section
1801 of this Article. As such, the regulation of Sign types, sizes, colors,
illumination, movements, materials, location, Height , and other non-content
related matters related to Sign s on Lots or Tract s located within Non-
Residential Zoning Districts will be different than those established for Sign
s located on Lots within Planned Residential or Residential or Zoning Districts
.
1804.03   Authorized Sign s and Prohibited Sign s. Signs within Non-Residential
Zoning Districts shall be authorized or prohibited in accordance with Section
1811, Table of Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District , and Sections
1802 and
1808 of this Article.
1804.04   Base Restrictions on Signage. The amount of signage permitted shall
be determined by the amount of Frontage of each Lot or Tract . All calculations
shall be rounded to the nearest hundredth.
 
                             Sign Structure                                                                     Max.
                             Total                                                                              Chngbl.
Frontage       Max. # of     Permitted Max.   Max.  Max. Sign Area (per Sign)                                   Copy/EMC
               Signs         Size      Height Width                                                             Area (per
                             (sq. ft.)                                                                          Sign)2

               One (1)
               Building
= 99.99 feet   Mounted                                                                                          Fifty
               One (1)                                                                                          percent
               Freestanding1                                                                                    (50%) of
               Two (2)                                                                                          the Max
100 – 299.99 Building                                                                                         Message
feet           Mounted                 Eight        Building Mounted = One-quarter (0.25) of a square foot per  Area or
               One (1)       n/a       (8)    n/a   one (1) linear foot of Lot or Tract  Frontage (cumulative) fifty
               Freestanding1           feet                                                                     (50)
                                                    Freestanding = Twenty-six (26) square feet per side         square
               Two (2)                                                                                          feet,
               Building                                                                                         whichever
= 300          Mounted,                                                                                         is
               Two (2)                                                                                          smaller
               Freestanding1


1 See Section
1803.01.H for Billboard  Sign regulations.
2See Section
1804.10 for Electronic Message Center (EMC) Sign regulations.
 
1804.05   Adjustments to Base Restrictions. The Base Restrictions on Signage
permitted in Section
1804.04 hereinabove may be adjusted based upon certain conditions as detailed
below. As it pertains to the maximum number of Sign s, where any calculation
results in a partial number, the calculation’s result shall be rounded to the
nearest whole number, with any calculation of 0.500 or lower being rounded
down, and any calculation of 0.501 or higher being rounded up. All other
calculations shall be rounded in a similar manner to the nearest hundredth.
   A)   Lot or Tract Size. Lots or Tract s of the following sizes shall be
entitled to increase any or all Base Restrictions of Signage stated in Section
1804.04 as defined below:
 
LOT OR TRACT SIZE PERCENTAGE
= 1.99 acres      No Bonus
2 – 9.99 acres  Five percent (5%)
= 10 acres        Ten percent (10%)
 
   B)    Width of Right-of-Way . Any or all Base Restrictions of Signage stated
in Section
1804.04 may be increased based on the width of the Right-of-Way that abuts the
Lot or Tract . For purposes of this subsection, the width shall be measured at
the narrowest point directly adjacent to the Lot or Tract .
 
WIDTH           PERCENTAGE
= 74.99 feet    No Bonus
75 – 99.99 feeFive percent (5%)
= 100 feet      Ten percent (10%)
 
   C)   Speed Limit on Roadway. Any or all Base Restrictions of Signage stated
in Section
1804.04 may be increased based on the speed limit of the Right-of-Way that
abuts the Lot or Tract . The speed limit shall be measured at the slowest
permitted speed directly adjacent to the Lot or Tract .
 
SPEED LIMIT    PERCENTAGE
= 34.99 MPH    No Bonus
35 – 44.99 MPFive percent (5%)
45 – 54.99 MPTen percent (10%)
55+ MPH        Fifteen percent (15%)
 
   D)    Height of Building . Any or all Base Restrictions on Signage stated in
Section
1804.04 may be increased based upon the Height of the largest Building which is
visible from the public Right-of-Way on the Lot or Tract .
 
HEIGHT          PERCENTAGE
= 19.99 feet    No Bonus
20 – 34.99 feeFive percent (5%)
= 35 feet       Ten percent (10%)
 
   E)    Square footage of Building on Property. Any or all maximum signage
requirements stated in Section
1804.04 may be increased based on the Floor Area of all permitted Principal
Structure s on the Lot or Tract .
 
TOTAL SQUARE FOOTAGE        PERCENTAGE
= 9,999 square feet         No Bonus
10,000 – 64,999 square feeFive percent (5%)
= 65,000 square feet        Ten percent (10%)
 
   F)    Square footage on a façade. Any or all maximum signage requirements
stated in Section
1804.04 may be increased based on the total square footage of the façade of the
largest Building which faces the public Right-of-Way on the Lot or Tract .
 
TOTAL SQUARE FOOTAGE      PERCENTAGE
= 1,999 square feet       No Bonus
2,000 – 5,000 square feeFive percent (5%)
= 5,000 square feet       Ten percent (10%)
 
1804.06   Maximum Sign Restrictions Regardless of Adjustment.
   A)   All applicable Sign s shall comply with the following restrictions,
which may not be adjusted according to the Adjustments to Base Restrictions in
Section
1804.05.
 
                             Sign Structure                                                                 Max.
               Max. # of     Total                                                                          Chngbl.
Frontage       Signs         Permitted Max.   Max.  Max. Sign Area                                          Copy/EMC
                             Size      Height Width                                                         Area2
                             (sq. ft.)
               Two (2)
               Building
= 99.99 feet   Mounted,                                                                                     Sixty
               Two (2)                                                                                      percent
               Freestanding1                                                                                (60%) of
               Three (3)                                                                                    the Max
               Building                                                                                     Message
100 – 299.99 Mounted,                Ten          Building Mounted = One-third (0.33) of a square foot    Area or
feet           Two (2)       n/a       (10)   n/a   per linear foot of Lot or Tract  Frontage (cumulative) sixty
               Freestanding1           feet                                                                 (60)
                                                   Freestanding = Forty (40) square feet per side          square
                                                                                                            feet,
               Three (3)                                                                                    whichever
               Building                                                                                     is
= 300          Mounted,                                                                                     smaller
               Three (3)
               Freestanding1

1 See Section
1803.01.H for Billboard  Sign regulations.
2See Section
1804.10 for Electronic Message Center (EMC) Sign regulations.
 
1804.07   Setback s. All Sign s shall be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet
from the Right-of-Way unless otherwise permitted by this Resolution.
1804.08   Illumination of Sign s shall be as specified in Section
1802.05.G.
1804.09   Temporary  Sign s shall be permitted in accordance with Section
1803.02.
1804.10   Electronic Message Center (EMC) Signs.
   A)   Such Sign s shall not be permitted on any property that contains an
existing or proposed Changeable Copy Sign unless the latter Sign is being
completely removed in favor of the former.
   B)   Such Sign s shall be incorporated into a Ground Monument or Wall Sign .
   C)   Maximum number permitted: One (1) per Lot .
   D)   All images, messages, and graphics displayed shall be static. Animation
and Video Displays are prohibited, as is the use of streaming or full-motion
video.
   E)   Each individual message or display shall be displayed for a minimum of
fifteen (15) consecutive seconds.
   F)   The transition from one static display to another shall be
instantaneous without any effects, including, but not necessarily limited to,
the following transition types; fading, flashing , spinning, revolving,
scrolling, slot machine, splice, mesh, radar, kaleidoscope, spin, swipe, or any
other such transition.
   G)   The entire Sign display shall be solid black or blank for a minimum
period of three (3) seconds between each message.
   H)   The images and message displayed shall be complete in themselves
without continuation in content to the next image or message or to any other
Sign .
   I)   Displays shall be equipped with a means to immediately discontinue the
display in the case of malfunction.
   J)   Such Sign s shall not contain movement, the appearance or optical
illusion of movement, or varying light intensity.
   K)   Brightness.
      1)   Any such Sign shall have a mechanism that automatically adjusts the
illuminative brightness of the display.
      2)   No Sign shall be brighter than five thousand (5,000) Nits between
sunrise and sunset.
      3)   No Sign shall be brighter than two-hundred and fifty (250) Nits
between sunset and sunrise.
      4)   The intensity of the Sign light source shall not produce glare, the
effect of which constitutes a traffic hazard or is otherwise detrimental to the
public health, safety, or general welfare.
      5)   The brightness of a Sign may not interfere with nearby traffic
control devices, regardless of whether the Sign in question was in place prior
to said device.
      6)   Brightness shall be measured in accordance with industry standards.
Section 1805: Planned Residential Zoning District Regulations
1805.01   The following restrictions shall apply to all Tract s within a
Planned Residential Zoning District . Individual Lots within a Planned
Residential Zoning District shall be subject to the regulations set forth in
Section
1806, Residential Zoning District Regulations.
1805.02   Explanation and Rationale. The purpose of these Planned Residential
Zoning District Regulations is to preserve the non-commercial character of
planned residential neighborhoods in accordance with Section
1801 of this Article and to allow for and promote the development of
neighborhoods with a cohesive and consistent aesthetic. As such, the regulation
Sign types, sizes, colors, illumination, movements, materials, location, Height
, and other non-content related matters related to Sign s on Lots located
within Planned Residential Zoning Districts will be different than those
established for Sign s located on Lots within Residential or Non-Residential
Zoning Districts .
1805.03   Authorized Signs and Prohibited Signs. Signs within Planned
Residential Zoning Districts shall be authorized or prohibited in accordance
with Section
1811, Table of Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District , and Sections
1802 and
1808 of this Article.
1805.04   Base Restrictions on Signage. All calculations shall be rounded to
the nearest hundredth.
 
                      Sign Structure                                Max.
                      Total                            Max. Sign    Chngbl.
Frontage Max. # of    Permitted                        Area (per    Copy/EMC
         Signs        Size      Max. Height Max. Width Sign)        Area (per
                      (sq. ft.)                                     Sign)

         One (1)
         Building
         Mounted Sign
         per Tract                                     Building
         One (1)                                       Mounted =
         Freestanding                                  Twenty (20)
         Sign per                                      square feet
         direct                 Six (6)                (cumulative) Not
Any      public       n/a       feet        n/a                    permitted
         vehicular                                     Freestanding
         access point                                  = Twenty-six
         to an                                         (26) square
         Arterial or                                   feet per
         Collector                                     side
         Street ,
         plus one (1)
         per Tract1
1 See Section
1803.01.H for Billboard  Sign regulations.
 
1805.05   Adjustments to Base Restrictions. The Base Restrictions on Signage
permitted in Section
1805.04 hereinabove may be adjusted based upon certain conditions as detailed
below. As it pertains to the number of Sign s, where any calculation results in
a partial number, the calculation’s result shall be rounded to the nearest
whole number, with any calculation of 0.500 or lower being rounded down, and
any calculation of 0.501 or higher being rounded up. All other calculations
shall be rounded in a similar manner to the nearest hundredth.
   A)   Tract Size. Tract s of the following sizes shall be entitled to
increase any or all Base Restrictions of Signage stated in Section
1805.04 as defined below:
 
TRACT SIZE       PERCENTAGE
= 24.99 acres    No Bonus
25 – 49.99 acreFive percent (5%)
50 – 74.99 acreTen percent (10%)
= 75 acres       Fifteen percent (15%)
 
   B)    Width of Right-of-Way . Any or all Base Restrictions of Signage stated
in Section
1805.04 may be increased based on the width of the Right-of-Way that abuts the
Tract . For purposes of this subsection, the width shall be measured at the
narrowest point directly adjacent to the Tract.
 
WIDTH           PERCENTAGE
= 74.99 feet    No Bonus
75 – 99.99 feeFive percent (5%)
= 100 feet      Ten percent (10%)
 
   C)   Speed Limit on Roadway. Any or all Base Restrictions of Signage stated
in Section
1805.04 may be increased based on the speed limit of the Right-of-Way that
abuts the Tract . The speed limit shall be measured at the slowest permitted
speed directly adjacent to the Tract.
 
SPEED LIMIT    PERCENTAGE
= 34.99 MPH    No Bonus
35 – 44.99 MPFive percent (5%)
45 – 54.99 MPTen percent (10%)
55+ MPH        Fifteen percent (15%)
 
1805.06   Maximum Sign Restrictions Regardless of Adjustment.
   A)   All applicable Sign s shall comply with the following restrictions,
which may not be adjusted according to the Adjustments to Base Restrictions in
Section
1805.05.
 
                      Sign Structure                                Max.
         Max. # of    Total                            Max. Sign    Chngbl.
Frontage Signs        Permitted Max. Height Max. Width Area         Copy/EMC
                      Size                                          Area
                      (sq. ft.)
         Two (2)
         Building
         Mounted
         Signs per                                     Building
         Tract                                         Mounted =
         Two (2)                                       Twenty-six
         Freestanding                                  (26) square
         Signs per                                     feet
Any      direct       n/a       Eight (8)   n/a        (cumulative) Not
         public                 feet                               permitted
         vehicular                                     Freestanding
         access point                                  = Forty (40)
         to an                                         square feet
         Arterial or                                   per side
         Collector
         Street ,
         plus two (2)
         per Tract  1
1 See Section
1803.01.H for Billboard  Sign regulations.
 
1805.07   Setback s. All Sign s shall be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet
from the Right-of-Way unless otherwise permitted by this Resolution.
1805.08   Illumination of Sign s shall be as specified in Section
1802.05.G.
1805.09   Temporary Signs shall be permitted in accordance with Section
1803.02.
Section 1806: Residential Zoning District Regulations
1806.01   The following restrictions shall apply to all Lots within a
Residential Zoning District .
1806.02   Explanation and Rationale. The purpose of these Residential Zoning
District Regulations is to preserve the non-commercial character of residential
neighborhoods in accordance with Section
1801 of this Article. As such, the regulation of Sign types, sizes, colors,
illumination, movements, materials, location, Height , and other non-content
related matters related to Sign s on Lots located within Residential Zoning
Districts will be different than those established for Signs located on Lots or
Tract s within the Non-Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District s.
1806.03   Authorized Sign s and Prohibited Signs. Signs within Residential
Zoning District s shall be authorized or prohibited in accordance with Section
1811, Table of Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District , and Sections
1802 and
1808 of this Article.
1806.04   Base Restrictions on Signage. The signage permitted shall be
determined by the amount of Frontage of each Lot . All calculations shall be
rounded to the nearest hundredth.
 
                        Sign Structure                                Max.
                        Total                            Max. Sign    Chngbl.
Frontage  Max. # of     Permitted                        Area (per    Copy/EMC
          signs         Size      Max. Height Max. Width Sign)        Area (per
                        (sq. ft.)                                     Sign)

                                                         Building
                                                         Mounted =
                                                         Eight (8)
= 84.99                                                  square feet
feet
                                                         Freestanding
                                                         = Eight (8)
                                  Four (4)               square feet
                                  feet                   Building
                                                         Mounted =
          One (1)                                        Eight (8)
85 to     Building                                       square feet
149.99    Mounted,      n/a                   n/a                     Not
feet      One (1)                                        Freestanding permitted
          Freestanding1                                  = Fourteen
                                                        (14) square
                                                        feet
                                                         Building
                                                         Mounted =
                                                         Twelve (12)
                                  Six (6)                square feet
150 feet+                         feet
                                                         Freestanding
                                                         = Twenty-six
                                                         (26) square
                                                         feet
1 See Section
1803.01.H for Billboard  Sign regulations.
 
1806.05   Adjustments to Base Restrictions. The Base Restrictions on Signage
permitted in Section
1806.04 hereinabove may be adjusted based upon certain conditions, as further
detailed below. As it pertains to the number of Sign s, where any calculation
results in a partial number, the calculation’s result shall be rounded to the
nearest whole number, with any calculation of 0.500 or lower being rounded
down, and any calculation of 0.501 or higher being rounded up. All other
calculations shall be rounded in a similar manner to the nearest hundredth.
   A)   Lot Area . Lots of the following sizes shall be entitled to increase
any or all Base Restrictions of Signage stated in Section
1806.04 as defined below:
 
LOT AREA         PERCENTAGE
= 0.49 acres     No Bonus
0.5 – 2.49 acreFive percent (5%)
2.5 – 4.99 acreTen percent (10%)
= 5 acres        Fifteen percent (15%)
 
   B)   Width of Right-of-Way . Any or all Base Restrictions of Signage stated
in Section
1806.04 may be increased based on the width of the Right-of-Way that abuts the
Lot . For purposes of this subsection, the width shall be measured at the
narrowest point directly adjacent to the Lot .
 
WIDTH           PERCENTAGE
= 49.99 feet    No Bonus
50 – 74.99 feeFive percent (5%)
75 – 99.99 feeTen percent (10%)
= 100 feet      Fifteen percent (15%)
 
   C)    Speed Limit on Roadway. Any or all Base Restrictions of Signage stated
in Section
1806.04 may be increased based on the speed limit of the Right-of-Way that
abuts the Lot . The speed limit shall be measured at the slowest permitted
speed directly adjacent to the Lot .
 
SPEED LIMIT    PERCENTAGE
= 34.99 MPH    No Bonus
35 – 44.99 MPFive percent (5%)
45 – 54.99 MPTen percent (10%)
55+ MPH        Fifteen percent (15%)
 
   D)   Height of Building . Any or all Base Restrictions on Signage stated in
Section
1806.04 may be increased based upon the Height of the largest Building which is
visible from the public Right-of-Way on the Lot .
 
HEIGHT          PERCENTAGE
= 19.99 feet    No Bonus
20 – 34.99 feeFive percent (5%)
= 35 feet       Ten percent (10%)
 
   E)    Square footage of Building on Property. Any or all maximum signage
requirements stated in Section
1806.04 may be increased based on the Floor Area of the Principal Structure s
on the Lot .
 
TOTAL SQUARE FOOTAGE      PERCENTAGE
= 1,099 square feet       No Bonus
1,011 – 2,499 square feeFive percent (5%)
2,500 – 4,999 square feeTen percent (10%)
= 5,000 square feet       Fifteen percent (15%)
 
1806.06   Maximum Sign Restrictions Regardless of Adjustment.
   A)   All applicable Sign s shall comply with the following restrictions,
which may not be adjusted according to the Adjustments to Base Restrictions in
Section
1806.05.
 
                       Sign Structure                                Max.
          Max. # of    Total                            Max. Sign    Chngbl.
Frontage  Signs        Permitted Max. Height Max. Width Area         Copy/EMC
                       Size                                          Area
                       (sq. ft.)
                                                        Building
                                                        Mounted =
                                                        Twelve (12)
= 84.99                                                 square feet
feet
                                                        Freestanding
                                                        Twelve (12)
                                 Six (6)                square feet
                                 feet                   Building
                                                        Mounted =
          Two (2)                                       Twelve (12)
85 to     Building                                      square feet
149.99    Mounted,     n/a                   n/a                     Not
feet      Two (2)                                       Freestanding permitted
          Freestanding                                  = Twenty-
                                                       four (24)
                                                        square feet
                                                        Building
                                                        Mounted =
                                                        Eighteen
                                 Eight (8)              (18) square
150 feet+                        feet                   feet

                                                        Freestanding
                                                        = Forty (40)
                                                        square feet
1 See Section
1803.01.H for Billboard  Sign regulations.
 
1806.07   Setback s. All Sign s shall be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet
from the Right-of-Way unless otherwise permitted by this Resolution.
1806.08   Illumination of Sign s shall be as specified in Section
1802.05.G.
1806.09   Temporary Signs shall be permitted in accordance with Section
1803.02.
Section 1807: Non-conforming Sign s
1807.01   The continuance of an existing Sign that does not meet the
regulations and requirements of this Resolution shall be deemed a Non-
conforming Sign that shall terminate upon becoming an Abandoned Sign .
1807.02   A Sign that is deemed a Non-conforming Sign shall not be structurally
relocated or replaced unless it is brought into compliance with the provisions
of this section.
1807.03   A Sign that is deemed a Non-conforming Sign shall be maintained or
repaired in accordance with the following provisions:
   A)   The size and structural shape shall not be changed or altered.
   B)   In case damage occurs to the Sign to the extent of fifty percent (50%)
or more of either the Structure or the replacement value of the Sign , said
Sign shall be brought into one hundred percent (100%) compliance with this
Zoning Resolution. Where damage to the Sign is less than fifty percent (50%) of
the Structure or its replacement value, the Sign shall be repaired within sixty
(60) days. If the Sign is not repaired, it shall be removed in accordance with
Section
1809.
Section 1808: Prohibited Signs
1808.01   The following Sign s are prohibited within the Township:
   A)   All Sign s not expressly authorized or exempted from regulation in
accordance with this Resolution, including those identified as being prohibited
in Section
1811, Table of Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District .
   B)   Any Sign that has been constructed or installed without obtaining all
required permits or is otherwise in violation of the provisions of this
Resolution.
   C)   Abandoned Signs .
   D)   Non-Government Sign s erected on public property without the consent of
the owner of said property.
   E)   Any Sign containing content that is considered Illicit unless said
content is a permissible expression under the First Amendment of the United
States Constitution and therefore not subject to regulation by Genoa Township.
   F)   Animation or Video Displays on any Sign requiring a Zoning Permit or
that is intended to be viewed from the Right-of-Way .
   G)   Window Signs located on the exterior side of said window and larger
than eight (8) square feet in size unless otherwise exempted or expressly
permitted within this Resolution; and
   H)   Temporary Signs exceeding sixty (60) square feet in total Sign Area ,
unless otherwise expressly permitted by this Resolution.
Section 1809: Removal of Sign s
1809.01   All Sign s erected within Genoa Township under this Zoning Resolution
are subject to inspection, whether a Zoning Permit is required or not.
1809.02   The Zoning Inspector, or their designee, may revoke a Zoning Permit
for the following reasons:
   A)   Information provided in the Zoning Permit application is found to be
materially false or misleading;
   B)   The Sign as installed does not conform to its Legal Approval ;
   C)   The Sign is in violation of this Resolution or any other applicable
laws or codes adopted by a legitimate government agency having jurisdiction;
   D)   The Sign has not been maintained in accordance with the provisions of
this Article;
   E)   The Sign has been determined to be a Nuisance pursuant to Section
1611;
   F)   The Sign has been determined to be objectionable pursuant to Section
1612;
   G)   The Sign has not been adequately maintained pursuant to Section
1802.06.D.
   H)   The Sign is prohibited by Section
1808 and/or
1811.
   I)   The Sign is otherwise found to be non-compliant with this Zoning
Resolution.
1809.03   Unattended Sign s on public property, including, but not necessarily
limited to, parks and Rights-of-Way , shall be considered Abandoned Signs and
may be disposed of or destroyed without notice. Such disposal or destruction is
not subject to appeal.
1809.04   Sign s found to be in violation of this Article shall be subject to
the provisions of Section
116 of this Resolution.
1809.05   Abandoned Signs shall be removed, replaced, or repaired within thirty
(30) days of notification by the Zoning Inspector or their designee.
Section 1810: Substitution
1810.01   Sign s containing Non-Commercial Speech are permitted anywhere that
Sign s containing Commercial Speech are permitted, subject to the same
regulations applicable to any such Sign .
Section 1811: Table of Permitted Sign Types by Zoning District
Y = Permitted by Right, Zoning Permit (s) may or may not be required;
additional restrictions may apply
N = Prohibited
Sign Type Residential Zoning Planned Residential Zoning Non-Residential Zoning
          Districts          Districts                  Districts
Sign Type            Residential Zoning Planned Residential Non-Residential
                     Districts          Zoning Districts    Zoning Districts
Building  Mounted
Blade                N                  N                   Y
Bulletin Board       N                  Y                   Y
Canopy               N                  N                   Y
Channel Letter       Y                  Y                   Y
Integral, Building   Y                  Y                   Y
Marquee              N                  N                   Y
Original Art Display Y                  Y                   Y
Roof                 N                  N                   N
Roof Integral        N                  N                   Y
Suspended            Y                  Y                   Y
Wall                 Y                  Y                   Y
Window               Y                  Y                   Y
Freestanding
Feather Banner       N                  N                   N
Ground Mounted       Y                  Y                   Y
Kiosk                N                  N                   Y
Pole or Pylon        Y                  Y                   Y
Post and Panel       Y                  Y                   Y
Sidewalk             Y                  Y                   Y
 
Sign Type Residential Zoning Planned Residential Zoning Non-Residential Zoning
          Districts          Districts                  Districts
Sign Type           Residential Zoning Planned Residential Non-Residential
                    Districts          Zoning Districts    Zoning Districts
Miscellaneous
Billboard           N1                 N1                  Y
Changeable Copy,    N                  N                   Y2
Manual
Changeable Copy,    N                  N                   N
Mechanical
Electronic Message  N                  N                   Y3
Center  (EMC)
Flag                Y                  Y                   Y
Flashing            N                  N                   N
Government          Y                  Y                   Y
Human               N                  N                   Y
Inflatable          N                  N                   N
Integral, Ground    Y                  Y                   Y
Landscape           Y                  Y                   Y
Light Box           N                  N                   Y
Light Pole          N                  N                   Y
Projection          N                  N                   N
Temporary (Large or Y                  Y                   Y
Small)4
Trailer             N                  N                   N
Vehicle             Y                  Y                   Y
Windblown Device    N                  N                   N
 
1 In Planned Residential and Residential Zoning Districts , Billboard Signs
shall only be permitted on Lots or Tract s utilized for Agriculture , pursuant
to ORC 519.20. See Section
1803.01.H for further regulations.
2 Manual Changeable Copy Signs shall not be permitted on an existing or
proposed Electronic Message Center Sign and shall only be permitted when
incorporated into a Ground Mounted or Wall Sign .
3See Section
1804.10 for specific regulations.
4See Section
1803.02 for specific regulations.
ARTICLE 19: Parking Standards
Section 1901: Introduction
1901.01   Intent and Purpose. The intent and purpose of these parking standards
is to establish requirements that provide for safety along roadways and within
Off-Street Parking Lot s for vehicles, bicyclists, and pedestrians, to prevent
hazards and conflicts to the greatest extent possible, to provide for adequate
loading areas, to minimize risk to the natural environment, to promote
efficient and sustainable utilization of land, to create an aesthetic standard,
and to promote and protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
community.
Section 1902: General Requirements
1902.01   No Building or Structure shall be erected, substantially altered,
or changed in Use , nor shall any land be Used or changed in Use , unless
adequately maintained Off-Street Parking Spaces, either in Garages or open
parking areas, have been provided in accordance with the provisions of this
Article.
   A)   The foregoing shall not apply to any prior Legal Approval nor to any
Building , Structure , or land Use existing before the effective date of this
Section or any amendment hereto, subject to the following conditions:
      1)   The number of Off-Street Parking Spaces or loading spaces shall not
be reduced to an amount less than required for a new land Use as specified in
this Article unless a Divergence or Variance is otherwise granted pursuant to
the terms of this Resolution.
      2)   If a Building or Structure that exists prior to the effective date
of this Section is enlarged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more in
Floor Area or number of Dwelling s, it shall then and thereafter comply with
the full parking requirements set forth herein.
   B)   Should the number of existing parking spaces be less than current
requirements prior to the effective date of this Section, further reduction of
parking spaces shall be prohibited.
1902.02   A parking plan shall be required to obtain a Legal Approval , subject
to the provisions stated elsewhere within this Article. Such a plan, however,
shall not be required for Duplexes, Manufactured Homes (permanently sited),
Mobile Homes, Row Dwelling s, Residential Care Facilities (5 or fewer
individuals), or Single-Family Dwelling s.
   A)   A required parking plan shall show boundaries of the property, setback
lines, parking spaces, driveways, circulation patterns, drainage plans,
construction plans for any boundary Accessory Walls or Fences, a screening
plan, and the location of adjacent Structure s.
1902.03   Unless otherwise specified within this Resolution, all parking
facilities, including entrances, exits, maneuvering areas, parking spaces, and
loading areas, shall comply with the provisions herein.
1902.04   All parking areas shall be designed to avoid undue interference with
public use of Streets .
1902.05   The Zoning Resolution shall have no authority regarding the parking
of vehicles on Streets ; however, the Resolution reserves the right to require
certain design standards for such parking, subject to approval by the Delaware
County Engineer, City of Westerville Engineer, and/or ODOT .
Section 1903: Parking Design and Operational Standards
1903.01   The requirements of this Section shall apply to all Use s not
otherwise exempted from providing a parking plan as further identified in
Section
1902.02.
1903.02   Dimensional Requirements for Off-Street Parking Lot s and Parking
Facilities , including access driveways.
   A)   Width and Length:
 
          No Spaces
          (Parking Access 45-degree1 60-degree 90-degree Other (Non- Parallel
          Aisle/Driveway                                 Parallel)
          only)
Width of
Parking   n/a             14'        11' 5"    10'       12’       9'
Space
Length of
Parking   n/a             21'6"      22'       20'       22’       23'
Space
Width of  One Way
Parking   Traffic = 13’
Aisle/                    13'        17' 6"    25'       22’       13'
Driveway  Two Way
          Traffic = 22’
 
1Minimum angle permitted.
   B)   The minimum parking Setback from the Lot Line on the Side and Rear
shall be six (6) feet unless specified otherwise within the specific District
requirements.
   C)   ADA -accessible parking spaces shall be exempt from the dimension
requirements of this Section so long as they comply with design standards set
forth or adopted by Delaware County, the State of Ohio, and/or the federal
government.
1903.03   All parking spaces shall have access to a Street in such a manner
that any vehicle leaving or entering the parking area from or into a Street or
private interior drive shall be traveling in a forward motion.
1903.04   Unless otherwise permitted within this Resolution, all required
parking spaces, including driveways and other circulation, shall be hard-
surfaced with asphaltic concrete, Portland cement concrete pavement, or
permeable pavement.
1903.05   All parking spaces, together with driveways, aisles, and other
circulation areas shall be graded and drained to dispose of surface water that
might accumulate within or upon such area and shall be designed to prevent the
excess drainage of surface water onto adjacent properties or Pedestrianway s
and damage to public streets in accordance with Delaware County and/or National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) standards.
1903.06   The following standards shall apply to any Off-Street Parking Lot
that contains five (5) or more parking spaces and not otherwise exempted by
Section
1902.02:
   A)   The minimum parking Setback from the Lot Line on the Side and Rear
shall be six (6) feet unless specified otherwise within the specific District
requirements.
   B)   Parking lots and spaces shall be designed so that the head (i.e., top
or terminus) of a parking space is not directed towards (i.e., generally
perpendicular to) the side of an adjacent parking or loading space nor shall it
be directed towards any area where vehicular traffic may occur (e.g., parking
aisle, driveway, storage area) without buffer or protection providing
separation.
      1)   Required separation shall be in the form of a landscaped area,
planting island/end cap, raised curb, and/or raised Pedestrianway totaling a
minimum of four (4) feet in width.
      2)   Any landscape area, planting island, or end cap provided to comply
with this standard shall be planted with trees and/or shrubs. Sizes of such
plantings shall comply with Article
20, Section 2006.
   C)   All parking lots shall be curbed, subject to approval by the Delaware
County Engineer.
   D)   Sidewalks at least six (6) feet in width shall be provided along the
full length of a Building along any Building façade adjacent to a parking area
or drive aisle.
   E)   Landscape buffering, screening, and enhancements shall be required as
provided in Article
20, Sections
2003 and
2004. All Landscaping shall continuously be maintained.
   F)   Pedestrianway s that are perpendicular and directly adjacent to parking
spaces shall have parking blocks installed that reduce vehicle overhang onto
Pedestrianway s.
1903.07   Parking areas servicing Agricultural and Non-Residential Type Uses
shall be used for the parking of vehicle occupants, patrons, visitors,
employees, and the like and shall not be used for any kind of loading, sales,
servicing, or continuous storage of a vehicle for more than forty-eight (48)
hours unless otherwise permitted within this Zoning Resolution or a valid Legal
Approval . Similarly, and furthermore:
   A)   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind, except emergency
repairs, shall be permitted in or associated with any Off-Street Parking Lot or
Parking Facility .
   B)   Display or sales of any merchandise within any parking area shall be
permitted only in accordance with Sections
2403 and
2405.
1903.08   Parking areas servicing Residential Type Uses shall be used for the
parking of vehicle occupants, patrons, visitors, employees, and the like, and
shall not be utilized for a commercial purpose, including loading, sales, and
servicing, unless otherwise permitted within this Zoning Resolution or a valid
Legal Approval .
1903.09   Wherever a parking lot extends to a Lot Line , a suitable barrier
such as fencing, wheel stops, or curbs shall be provided to prevent any part of
a parked vehicle from extending beyond the Lot Line .
1903.10   Access of driveways for parking areas shall be located in such a way
that any vehicle entering or leaving such parking area shall be clearly visible
for a reasonable distance by any pedestrian or motorist approaching the access
or driveway from a public or private Street .
1903.11   No Structure , Fill , or vegetation shall be erected, placed,
planted, or allowed to grow on at the intersection of a parking drive aisle or
Internal Street within a parking lot so as to create a sight impediment within
seventy-five (75) feet of the intersecting center lines of any two or more such
features. In determining if any sight impediment exists, in the absence of an
official determination by the Delaware County Engineer or a representative
thereof, the Zoning Inspector or their designee shall measure the sight
distance between the center lines of such Streets at a Height of three feet,
nine inches (3'9") above the actual grades of the Streets .
1903.12   All required parking spaces shall be marked with paint lines or curb
stones and maintained in a clearly visible condition.
1903.13   The owner of property used for parking areas, including associated
aisles and driveways, shall maintain such areas in good condition without holes
or hazards and shall be kept free of dust, waste, trash, or other such debris.
1903.14   Any parking area that is intended to be used during non-daylight
hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights used to
illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from
the adjoining property.
1903.15   Entrances, exits, and intended circulation patterns of parking areas
shall be clearly marked.
1903.16   Unless otherwise specified herein, no more than twenty percent (20%)
of parking spaces within a contiguous  Off-Street Parking Lot on the surface-
level parking area of a Parking Facility on the same Lot or Tract may be
expressly designated for related and permitted on-site services (carry out,
curbside delivery, pick-up/drop-off), Mobile Vending , Outdoor Display ,
vehicle charging stations, or temporary storage. Required accessible parking
spaces shall not count towards this standard.
1903.17   Unless otherwise permitted within this Resolution, the parking of
passenger or commercial vehicles, including those for sale, shall be restricted
only to driveways, parking pads, and other similar impervious surface areas.
Placement of such within yards or on landscaped or unimproved areas, such as
dirt, grass, and vegetation, for a period greater than seventy-two (72)
consecutive hours during a thirty (30) day period, shall be prohibited. These
provisions do not apply to parking activities falling outside the scope and
authority of township zoning, including parking on or along Streets .
Section 1904: Parking Space Requirements
1904.01   All Non-Residential Type Uses :
   A)   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be One (1) parking
space per three hundred and fifty (350) square feet of Floor Area plus:
      1)   Outdoor recreational fields, playgrounds, and rinks – Thirty-five
(35) parking spaces per such area shall be provided. This standard shall not
apply to Educational Institutions or Day Care Centers unless such amenity is
open to spectators.
      2)   Outdoor recreational courts , including tennis, racquetball, and
pickleball – Two (2) parking spaces for every three (3) playing areas and one
(1) for every employee shall be provided. This standard shall not apply to
Educational Institution s or Day Care Centers unless such amenity is open to
spectators.
      3)   Outdoor Swimming Pool s open to the public – one parking space (1)
for every three (3) persons the pool is designed to serve, and one (1) parking
space for every employee shall be provided. This standard shall not apply to
Educational Institution s or Day Care Centers unless such amenity is open to
spectators.
      4)   Outdoor Golf Course s open to the general public – Five (5) parking
spaces for every hole and one (1) parking space for every employee shall be
provided.
      5)   Outdoor Amphitheater s, Amusement Park s, Animal Park s, Campground
s, Fairground s, Marina s, Off-Road Motorized Vehicle Tracks , Stadium s, and
other such outdoor non-residential facilities not otherwise regulated herein,
including Agriculture , Agritourism , and Farm Market s not otherwise exempt
from local zoning control – One (1) parking space per every three (3) persons
the facility is designed to accommodate when utilized to maximum capacity shall
be provided. This standard shall not apply to Educational Institutions or Day
Care Centers unless such amenity is open to spectators.
      6)   Building Materials Sales and Storage establishments, Contractor’s
Yards , Junkyards , Nurseries , and the like: One (1) parking space per one
thousand (1,000) square feet of Outdoor Storage area open to the public shall
be provided.
      7)   Sales, Rental, and Storage Use s: One (1) parking space per five
hundred (500) square feet of outdoor sales area shall be provided.
      8)   Mobile Enterprise Court : One (1) parking space per three hundred
and fifty (350) square feet of paved area utilized for the parking of Mobile
Enterprises, Mobile Service Businesses, and/or Mobile Vending Business es shall
be provided.
      9)   Cemetery : One (1) per employee shall be provided.
      10)   Outdoor utility sub-stations, Telecommunication Towers, non-
residential Solar Facilities, non-residential Wind Farms , and the like: Three
(3) parking spaces shall be provided.
   B)   The maximum number of parking spaces permitted shall be one (1) parking
space per two hundred (200) square feet of Floor Area , exclusive of those
required by Section
1904.01.A.1 – 10 above.
   C)   The calculated number of required/permitted parking spaces, minimum or
maximum, shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number.
   D)   For the purposes of only, Floor Area shall not include:
      1)   Any Data Center or Warehouse space not regularly occupied by
employees.
      2)   Garages, bays, or carport space not regularly occupied by employees.
1904.02   Residential Type Uses :
   A)   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be:
      1)   Single-Family Dwelling s, including Short-Term Rentals: Two (2)
parking spaces per Dwelling shall be provided.
      2)   All other Dwelling s, including Mobile Home Park s, Multi-Family
Building s, and Short-Term Rental Complex es: One (1) parking space per
Dwelling or Mobile Home site shall be provided.
      3)   Residential Care Facilities for six (6) or more individuals, care
homes of all types, and the like: One (1) parking space for every three (3)
beds shall be provided. The number of required spaces shall be rounded up to
the nearest whole number.
      4)   Clubhouses and Residential Community Centers: One (1) parking space
per two hundred (200) square feet of Floor Area shall be provided.
   B)   Parking spaces for detached residential Use s shall be located on the
same Lot as the Use which they are intended to serve, and such parking area(s)
shall have access to a Street .
   C)   Parking spaces for Multi-Family Dwellings and other similar types of
residential Use s shall be located not more than three (300) feet from the
subject Principal Use .
1904.03   Live/Work Dwellings shall be required to provide the minimum number
of parking spaces for both their non-residential and residential Use s, with
the former being subject to the permitted parking maximum set forth herein.
1904.04   When an Off-Street Parking Lot includes more than two hundred (200)
parking spaces, the following shall apply:
   A)   An Internal Street system to facilitate pedestrian and vehicular
circulation, creating an interconnected circulation network, shall be provided.
Internal Streets shall be designed to stub into adjacent properties, where
practical, within any necessary easements.
   B)   The lot shall be broken into parking areas of no more than one hundred
(100) vehicles bounded by a Street , Building , or planting median.
1904.05   When two (2) or more Use s are located within the same Building or
Structure , off-street parking spaces equal in number to the sum of the
separate requirements for each Use shall be provided, subject to Section
1902.01 herein.
1904.06   The required off-street parking spaces for any number of separate
Building s, Structure s, or Use s within a subdivision or development shall be
permitted to be provided collectively on one (1) Lot , provided that the total
number of such spaces shall not be less than the sum of the requirements for
the various individual Building s, Structure s, or Use s computed separately in
accordance with this Section.
1904.07   Common shared parking areas are preferred and encouraged. The
required off-street parking spaces for two (2) or more Use s may be provided
collectively on one (1) Lot if the total number of spaces is not less than the
sum of the spaces required for each Use individually.
   A)   In such instances, a reciprocal parking agreement and corresponding
access easement(s) agreements between the owners and operators of the
facilities generating the need for common shared parking shall be provided to
qualify for the aforementioned exception.
   B)   Any modification to the required number of parking spaces shall be
supported by a parking needs analysis on the combined utilization of all
facilities on site simultaneously or demonstrating that the hours or days of
peak parking needed for the Use s are so different that a lower total will
adequately provide for all Use s served by the facility. This analysis shall be
performed by an individual or firm certified to perform such a task.
1904.08   On-street parking within the same subdivision, Lot , or Tract may
count towards parking requirements, without the need for a Variance or
Divergence , for Conditional Use s and Planned Development s. Such areas must
be permitted by, and adhere to the design requirements of, the Delaware County
Engineer to qualify.
1904.09   Shared and/or reciprocal parking agreements and corresponding access
easement(s) may be accepted in lieu of required on-site parking spaces, without
the need for a Variance or Divergence , for Conditional Use s and Planned
Development s. Documentation of such an agreement shall be provided to the
township prior to the granting of a Legal Approval .
1904.10   On development sites where a combination of large-scale assembly Use
s requiring parking for two-thousand (2,000) vehicles or more are permitted,
parking requirements may be combined for each Use pursuant to Section
1904.07 herein with the caveat that each facility shall provide onsite a
minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the required number of off-street parking
spaces determined at peak utilization for each Use as identified within a
parking study conducted by an individual or firm certified to perform such
task. In addition, a parking needs analysis, also performed by a similarly
certified individual or firm, shall be submitted that documents anticipated
parking needs based on the combined utilization of facilities on site
simultaneously.
Section 1905: Off-Street Loading Areas
1905.01   Any proposed off-street loading area(s) shall be located at the side
or rear of all Building s and shall not face a Steet, Planned Residential
Zoning District , or Residential Zoning District .
1905.02   Each loading space shall have minimum dimensions not less than twelve
(12) feet in width, fifty (50) feet in length, and a vertical clearance of not
less than fifteen (15) feet.
1905.03   Off-street loading spaces shall not project into any Front Yard .
1905.04   Off-street loading spaces shall have access to a public street in
such a manner that any vehicle leaving or entering the premises shall be
traveling in a forward motion. Similarly, such areas shall be designed to not
block or interfere with the flow of traffic within a parking lot.
1905.05   Loading spaces, together with driveways, aisles, and other
circulation areas, shall be surfaced with an asphaltic concrete or Portland
cement concrete pavement to provide a durable and dust-free surface.
1905.06   Loading spaces, together with driveways, aisles, and other
circulation areas, shall be designed to prevent the drainage of surface water
onto adjacent properties or Pedestrianway s and damage to public streets.
1905.07   Landscape buffering, screening, and enhancements of such areas shall
be provided pursuant to applicable provisions within Article
20.
1905.08   Any loading area that is intended to be used during non-daylight
hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents and shall comply with
the provisions of Article
21.
1905.09   No loading ramp, dock, door, or space, nor any portion thereof, shall
be located closer than fifty (50) feet from any Lot within a Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District .
1905.10   The minimum number of spaces provided shall be as follows:
   A)   Ten thousand (10,000) square feet or less of gross Floor Area : One (1)
loading space.
   B)   Over ten thousand (10,000) square feet of gross Floor Area : One (1)
plus one (1) for each additional twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross
Floor Area or fraction thereof.
Section 1906: Parking and Storage of Non-Passenger Vehicles
1906.01   Outdoor Storage or parking of any Camping or Recreational Equipment ,
including trailers of any type shall not be permitted within any required Front
Yard for more than seven (7) days per calendar year. This restriction shall not
apply to any such item that is safely and lawfully parked on a zoning-compliant
driveway, parking pad, or impervious surface area that is clearly
distinguishable from the Lot’s Landscaping , be it improved or unimproved.
1906.02   No Dwelling Unit shall be maintained, and no business shall be
conducted within, any Camping or Recreational Equipment while such equipment is
parked within any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District .
1906.03   The wheels or any similar transporting devices of any Camping or
Recreational Equipment shall not be removed except for repairs for more than
seven (7) days per calendar year, nor shall any such equipment be permanently
Attached to the ground.
1906.04   No motor home, Mobile Home, or any Camping or Recreational Equipment
may be occupied for more than seven (7) days per calendar year.
1906.05   Parked or stored Camping or Recreational Equipment shall not have
fixed connections to electricity, water, gas, or sanitary sewer facilities.
1906.06   Outdoor Storage or parking of backhoes, bulldozers, dump trucks with
the carrying capacity of one (1) ton or above, well rigs, and other similar
construction equipment, other than equipment temporarily used for construction
upon the site, shall not be permitted within any Residential or Planned
Residential District .
1906.07   The Outdoor Storage or parking of any semi-trailer or tractor,
construction equipment or construction equipment trailer or of any vehicle
having a gross vehicle weight rating greater than ten thousand (10,000) pounds
or an overall vehicle length greater than twenty-one (21) feet shall not be
permitted on the same Lot as a Single-Family Dwelling , except for vehicles
making temporary service or delivery calls and except for one recreational
vehicle which does not have a gross vehicle weight greater than fifteen
thousand (15,000) pounds or an overall vehicle length greater than forty (40)
feet.
ARTICLE 20: Landscaping Standards
Section 2001: Introduction
2001.01   Intent and Purpose. The intent and purpose of these Landscaping
standards are to provide a visual barrier to partially, or completely, obstruct
the view of Structure s or activities, (e.g., parking and loading areas) from
off-site to the greatest extent practical and possible; serve as an acoustic
screen to aid in absorbing or deflecting noise, (e.g., HVAC units); assist in
the containment of debris and litter, (e.g., waste containment receptacles);
enhance the aesthetics and natural beauty of the region by providing for
Context-Sensitive landscape provisions; protect and improve the environmental
quality of the township to the greatest extent possible; and to promote and
protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the community.
Section 2002: General Requirements
2002.01   The regulations within this Article are applicable, when cited, to
the Zoning Districts within which they are specified unless otherwise
stipulated or modified within this Zoning Resolution.
2002.02   All Landscaping improvements required by this Zoning Resolution shall
be properly trimmed and maintained in good condition, subject to Article
16, Section
1611. Dead and dying plants shall be replaced no later than the subsequent
planting season.
2002.03   All areas of a Lot not covered by Structure s or Impervious Surfaces
shall be maintained as landscaped or natural areas.
2002.04   Whenever Landscaping is adjacent to parking areas or driveways,
plantings shall be protected by bumper blocks, posts, or curbing to avoid
damage by vehicles.
Section 2003: Landscaped Buffers
2003.01   No-Pave Setback Buffer.
   A)   Off-Street Parking Lots servicing Non-Residential Type Use s, non-
exempt Agricultural Type Use s, Mobile Home Park s, Multi-Family Building s,
and Residential Care Facilities (6 or more individuals) shall not be located
within twenty-five (25) feet of an adjoining public Street unless otherwise
authorized within this Resolution.
      1)   Such areas shall also comply with Section
2002 and any Setback s established elsewhere in this Resolution.
      2)   No portion of this Setback shall be paved for any reason except for
access drives, Internal Streets that are perpendicular to the Setback area,
Pedestrianway s, Pedestrian-Oriented amenities, or utilities.
   B)   The required No-Pave Setback Buffer shall be, at a minimum, landscaped
with one or more of the following:
      1)   One (1) deciduous canopy tree and three (3) shrubs per thirty (30)
linear feet of Setback area.
      2)   Two (2) ornamental trees and three (3) shrubs per thirty (30) linear
feet of Setback area.
      3)   A landscaped berm designed in accordance with the provisions set
forth in Sections
2003.04.A.1 –
2003.04.A.2. Section
2003.04.C shall not be applicable to this standard.
      4)   Decorative masonry piers, walls, and/or fencing not exceeding thirty
(36) inches in Height with a continuous row of evergreen shrubs planted on the
Street side of such treatment and one deciduous canopy or evergreen tree
planted every sixty (60) feet on-center on the non-Street (i.e., interior) site
side of such treatment.
   C)   Unless otherwise specified herein, spacing of required trees within the
No-Pave Setback Buffer may be soldier-type spacing (i.e., one (1) tree every
thirty (30) feet, on center, in a row) or clustered spacing (one (1) tree for
each thirty (30) feet, spaced irregularly or in groups).
   D)   No-Pave Setback Buffer plantings are not required wherever a Principal
Building is proposed to be set back thirty-five (35) feet or less from an
adjacent Street , so long as such Setback is otherwise permitted by this Zoning
Resolution. The foregoing shall not apply to any such Setback reduced via an
approved Divergence or Variance .
2003.02   Site Perimeter Buffer.
   A)   A minimum ten (10) foot wide perimeter Landscaping buffer (i.e.,
Setback ) shall be provided around the perimeter of the Lot or Tract , except
along Streets .
      1)   Such areas shall also comply with Section
2002 and any Setback s established elsewhere in this Resolution.
      2)   No portion of this Setback shall be paved for any reason except for
access drives, Internal Street that are perpendicular to the setback area,
Pedestrianway s, Pedestrian-Oriented amenities, or utilities.
      3)   This buffer shall not be required in areas where a No-Pave Setback
(Section
2003.01) or Non-Residential Buffer and Development Setback (Section
2003.03) is required by this Zoning Resolution.
   B)   The required Site Perimeter Buffer shall be, at minimum, landscaped
with one or more of the following:
      1)   One (1) deciduous canopy tree and three (3) shrubs per thirty (30)
linear feet of buffer area.
      2)   Two (2) ornamental trees and three (3) shrubs per thirty (30) linear
feet of buffer area.
      3)   A landscaped berm designed in accordance with the provisions set
forth in Sections
2003.04.A.1 –
2003.04.A.2. Section
2003.04.C shall not be applicable to this standard.
      4)   A solid decorative masonry wall set back at least ten (10) feet from
any Lot Line and standing no less than five and one-half (5 ½) feet and no more
than eight (8) feet in Height . Such a wall shall be supplemented with
plantings as follows:
         a)   A continuous row of shrubs interspersed with one (1) deciduous
canopy , ornamental, or evergreen tree planted on-center every sixty (60) feet.
Such plantings shall be located on the exterior side of the proposed wall or
Fence (i.e., the side facing the perimeter Lot Line ).
      5)   A decorative Fence set back at least ten (10) feet from any Lot Line
and standing no less than five and one-half (5 ½) feet and no more than eight
(8) feet in Height .
         a)   Such Fences shall be louvered, shadowbox, solid, stockade, or
louvered in nature.
         b)   Such Fences shall be supplemented by plantings as prescribed in
Section
2003.02.B.4.a.
   C)   This buffer is not superseded by the Landscape Berm Setback
requirements within this Article.
   D)   This buffer is not required where the development of two (2) or more
adjoining Lots is being master planned together and the Lot Line to be buffered
falls within a logical location for a parking lot, drive aisle, or other such
paved area.
2003.03   Non-Residential Buffer and Development Setback .
   A)   All development of Non-Residential Zoning Districts that are contiguous
, abutting, or adjacent to any Residential Zoning District or Planned
Residential Zoning District shall maintain a seventy-five (75) foot wide non-
disturbance development setback from the Lot Line abutting any Residential
Zoning District or Planned Residential Zoning District .
      1)   Such areas shall also comply with Section
2002 and any Setback s established elsewhere in this Resolution.
      2)   The required Setback area shall not be cleared of vegetation or
graded, except that vegetation may be disturbed to the extent that additional
Landscaping within the non-disturbance Setback will enhance the subject buffer
area.
   B)   The required Non-Residential Buffer and Development Setback shall be,
at a minimum, landscaped with one or more of the following:
      1)   For every one hundred (100) feet of Lot Line to be buffered: eight
(8) evergreen trees, two (2) ornamental trees, two (2) canopy trees, and ten
(10) shrubs.
      2)   A landscaped berm designed in accordance with the provisions set
forth in Sections
2003.04.A.1 –
2003.04.A.2. Section
2003.04.C shall not be applicable to this standard.
      3)   A solid decorative masonry wall set back at least ten (10) feet from
any Lot Line and standing no less than five and one-half (5 ½) feet and no more
than eight (8) feet in Height . Such a wall shall be supplemented with
plantings as follows:
         a)   A continuous row of shrubs interspersed with one (1) deciduous
canopy , ornamental, or evergreen tree planted on-center every thirty (30)
feet. Such plantings shall be located on the exterior side of the proposed wall
or Fence (i.e., the side facing the perimeter Lot Line ).
      4)   A decorative Fence set back at least ten (10) feet from any Lot Line
and standing no less than five and one-half (5 ½) feet and no more than eight
(8) feet in Height .
         a)   Such Fences shall be louvered, shadowbox, solid, stockade, or
louvered in nature.
         b)   Such Fences shall be supplemented by plantings as prescribed in
Section
2003.03.B.4.a.
   C)   Unless otherwise required, the required Setback area shall be planted
with plants arranged in staggered rows to provide an effective visual screen.
   D)   Existing topographic conditions, such as embankments, berms, or
existing vegetation, may be substituted for part or all of the required buffer
so long as the minimum visual effect is equal to or exceeds that of the
required screening buffer vegetation.
   E)   The subject buffer, when required, supersedes the Site Perimeter Buffer
requirements of this Article.
   F)   The subject buffer is not superseded by the Landscape Berm Setback
requirements of this Article.
2003.04   Landscape Berm Setback .
   A)   Where parking, interior drive aisles, loading areas, Building service
entrances, waste/recycling/composting enclosures, and/or loading docks in a
Non-Residential Zoning District adjoin a Residential Zoning District or Planned
Residential Zoning District , they shall be set back a minimum of one hundred
(100) feet from the Lot Line adjoining the Residential Zoning District or
Planned Residential Zoning District .
      1)   The required setback shall include an elevated earth berm that is a
minimum of five and one-half (5 ½) feet higher than the finished elevation of
the area to be screened. The berm shall have a crown width of at least three
(3) feet and shall not have a slope steeper than a three-to-one (3:1) ratio.
      2)   The required berm shall contain one (1) deciduous canopy tree and
one (1) evergreen tree per ten (10) linear feet of earthen berm or two (2)
evergreen trees per ten (10) linear feet of earthen berm. A minimum of seventy-
five percent (75%) of the plantings shall be on both sides of the berm and
crown area.
   B)   The subject berm requirements do not supersede the Site Perimeter
Buffer or the Non-Residential Buffer and Development Setback provisions within
this Article.
   C)   Landscape treatments specified in Sections
2003.02.B.4 – 5 above may be accepted in lieu, in whole or in part, of the
required berm and plantings.
2003.05   Off-Street Parking Perimeter Buffer.
   A)   All Off-Street Parking lot s shall be screened around the perimeter
abutting a Street , entrance drive, Internal Street , or adjacent parking lot
by a planting area that is a minimum of ten (10) feet wide and located
immediately adjacent to the parking area.
   B)   The subject perimeter buffer shall include one (1) deciduous tree,
planted thirty-five (35) feet on center, combined with one (1) or more of the
following options:
      1)   A continuous row of deciduous shrubs planted a maximum of thirty-six
(36) inches on center. Such rows may be capped or interspersed with solid brick
piers not to exceed thirty-six (36) inches in Height . Piers, if provided,
shall be evenly spaced with intervals between thirty (30) and sixty (60) feet.
      2)   A decorative masonry wall not less than thirty-six (36) inches and
not more than forty-eight (48) inches in Height . Trees required by Section
2003.05.B shall be planted on the exterior (non-parking lot) side of the said
wall.
2003.06   Stormwater Buffers. Each stormwater basin and/or pond shall be
screened as follows:
   A)   Dry Basin:
      1)   For every one hundred (100) linear feet of basin perimeter, the
following minimum quantities and types of plant materials shall be required:
         a)   Five (5) evergreen trees.
         b)   Two (2) ornamental trees.
         c)   Three (3) canopy trees.
   B)   Naturalized Basin or Wet Pond:
      1)   For every one hundred (100) linear feet of basin perimeter, the
following minimum quantities and types of plant materials shall be required:
         a)   Two (2) evergreen trees.
         b)   Two (2) ornamental trees.
         c)   One (1) canopy tree.
   C)   Plantings shall be installed so as not to interfere with the proper
function of the basin.
   D)   Plantings shall not be installed on any Fill embankment within ten (10)
feet of the toe or top of the slope.
2003.07   In areas where existing topographic conditions (e.g., embankments,
berms, slopes) and/or existing woody vegetation, which is healthy, mature, and
abundant enough to serve as a visual screen occurs, said conditions/vegetation
may be credited towards the subject planting requirements. To qualify, proof of
such shall be submitted in the form of a current topographic and/or tree survey
as well as photographs of such conditions/vegetation.
2003.08   Unless otherwise stated, plantings, berms, walls, and Fences provided
to comply with any one required standard of this Section (
2003) shall not be utilized to count towards compliance with any other standard
of said section.
2003.09   Plantings required by this Section shall comply with species and size
requirements set forth within Sections
2005 and
2006, respectively.
2003.10   Lighting installed in conjunction with the Landscaping required by
this Section shall comply with Article
21.
Section 2004: Screening and Enhancement
2004.01   Off-Street Parking, Interior. The following provisions shall be
complied with in all Off-Street parking lot s that accommodate fifteen (15) or
more parking spaces:
   A)   One planting island shall be provided for each fifteen (15) parking
spaces, a minimum, and at the end of each parking row, unless an end cap island
is required.
      1)   The pervious surface area of each island shall be seventeen (17)
feet long as a minimum of twelve (12) feet wide.
      2)   Where two (2) or more islands are required in a parking row, they
shall be placed so that in no instance are the islands separated by more than
fifteen (15) spaces.
      3)   All planting islands shall contain, at a minimum, one (1) deciduous
tree per planting island. The tree shall have a clear trunk at least six (6)
feet above the finished grade to allow vehicular circulation and visibility
beneath the canopy .
   B)   An end cap planting island shall be required at the end of each row of
parking to separate the rows of parking and drive aisles.
      1)   The end cap planting islands shall meet all of the minimum
requirements for planting islands specified above.
      2)   The pervious surface area of each end cap island shall be a minimum
of twelve (12) feet wide and shall be fifteen (15) feet in length for each row
of parking, measured along the length of the adjacent parking space.
   C)   Above-grade footers/concrete foundations for light poles located in
parking lot Landscaping areas shall be screened with evergreen shrubs.
   D)   A planting median shall be placed between every third parking bay of
adjacent parking bays, at a minimum, to prevent traffic movement across parking
lots.
      1)   The planting median shall be a minimum of fifteen (15) feet wide and
may include a sidewalk, where necessary for pedestrian circulation.
      2)   The planting median shall contain the following vegetation, at a
minimum:
         a)   One (1) deciduous tree planted thirty-five (35) feet on center,
in a continuous staggered row.
         b)   Ten (10) shrubs for every tree required, planted in rows or
clustered groups.
      3)   The required parking median shall contain defined breaks, as
necessary, to provide pedestrian circulation between bays of parking. The
breaks shall also allow for accessibility from one side of the planting to the
other and onto the sidewalk within the planting median if a sidewalk is located
within the median.
   E)   In addition to any other required plantings, all parking lot planting
areas shall be planted with turf grass, ornamental grasses (not exceeding
twenty-four (24) inches at maturity), or other ground cover plant material.
Mulch, stone, or similar materials may be used sparingly.
   F)   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of an Off-Street Parking Lot area is
required to be pervious within the interior of the parking lot.
      1)   The pervious surface calculation shall include all pervious area
within planting islands, end cap islands, and planting medians.
         a)   Pedestrianway s and pedestrian-oriented amenities may be included
in the pervious surface calculation for the median.
      2)   When calculating the amount of required pervious surface area, the
impervious surface area shall include all parking spaces and drive aisles that
access parking spaces.
      3)   If the required minimum number and size of parking lot Landscaping
areas do not result in ten percent (10%) of pervious surface, the requirement
shall be met by increasing the size and/or number of the required planting
islands, end cap islands, and/or planting medians. Irregularly shaped areas or
pervious surfaces shall not be permitted to achieve this requirement.
2004.02   Building Foundation Plantings.
   A)   Principal Buildings containing Non-Residential Type Uses , non-exempt
Agricultural Type Uses , Mobile Home Park s, Multi-Family Building s, and
Residential Care Facilities (6 or more individuals), as well as those within
Mobile Home Park s, excluding Mobile Homes, shall be screened as follows:
      1)   Fifty percent (50%) of the length of such Building facades that face
a Street , Internal Street , parking lot, or parking lot drive aisle shall
include a foundation planting area immediately adjacent to the Building . If
there are two (2) or more such facades, planting areas shall be provided along
a minimum of two (2) facades.
         a)   The required plantings may be reduced to a minimum of twenty-five
percent (25%) of the length along a front Building façade with two (2) or more
public Building entrances.
         b)   Along a front Building façade, raised planter boxes may be used
in lieu of the minimum required foundation plantings along that façade, such
that the planters provide the same square footage of planting area as the
required foundation plantings would provide. The planters must be placed within
the width of the façade.
      2)   The required foundation planning area shall be a minimum of six (6)
feet wide.
      3)   The required foundation planting area shall include, at a minimum,
ornamental trees, evergreen trees, and shrubs, in addition to any annual or
perennial vegetation.
      4)   In addition to other required plantings, all Building  foundation
planting areas shall be planted with turf grass, ornamental grasses, or other
ground cover plant material. Mulch, stone, or similar ground cover materials
are to be used sparingly.
2004.03   Dumpsters and other similar types of large waste/recycling/composting
containers that are typically not moved by Manual means and that are not
otherwise considered Portable Storage Unit s shall:
   A)   Be screened by one (1) or more of the following:
      1)   Dense evergreen plantings five and one-half (5 ½) feet in Height .
      2)   A solid masonry wall five and one-half (5 ½) feet in Height .
      3)   A solidly constructed decorative Fence five and one-half (5 ½) feet
in Height .
      4)   A louvered fence five and one-half (5 ½) feet in Height .
      5)   A landscaped berm designed in accordance with the provisions set
forth in Sections
2003.04.A.1 –
2003.04.A.2.
   B)   Be separated by any adjacent parking space by a landscaped parking lot
island at least seventeen (17) feet long and twelve (12) feet wide.
2004.04   On all Non-Residential Type Uses , non-exempt Agricultural Type Uses
, Mobile Home Park s, Multi-Family Building s, and Residential Care Facilities
(6 or more individuals), building Mechanical systems, including, air
conditioning units, exhaust systems, satellite dishes, fire escapes, elevator
housing, and the like, whether on the Building roof or the ground, shall be
integrated into the overall design and character of the Building and completely
screened from view from adjoining properties and Streets , the extent screening
is physically practical. Acceptable screening includes one or more of the
following:
   A)   Dense evergreen plantings five and one-half (5 ½) feet in Height .
   B)   A solid masonry wall five and one-half (5 ½) feet in Height .
   C)   A solidly constructed decorative Fence five and one-half (5 ½) feet in
Height .
   D)   A louvered fence five and one-half (5 ½) feet in Height .
   E)   A landscaped berm designed in accordance with the provisions set forth
in Sections
2003.04.A.1 –
2003.04.A.2.
2004.05   In order to protect hillsides and grades exceeding twenty-five
percent (25%) in slope, no vegetative cover may be removed from an existing
slope greater than twenty-five percent (25%), nor may a slope exceeding twenty-
five percent (25%) be created unless it is planted in accordance with the
following:
   A)   At a minimum, one (1) tree shall be provided per three hundred (300)
square feet.
   B)   Required trees shall be spaced so that they are evenly spread over the
entire steep slope area.
   C)   All required trees shall be a minimum of one inch (1”) caliper in size,
fast-growing, and native to Central Ohio. This provision shall supersede those
found in Section 2006.
2004.06   In areas where existing topographic conditions (e.g., embankments,
berms, slopes) and/or existing woody vegetation, which is healthy, mature, and
abundant enough to serve as a visual screen occurs, said conditions/vegetation
may be credited towards the subject planting requirements. To qualify, proof of
such shall be submitted in the form of a current topographic and/or tree
survey, as well as photographs of such conditions/vegetation.
2004.07   Unless otherwise stated, plantings, berms, walls, and Fences provided
to comply with any one required standard of this Section (
2004) shall not be utilized to count towards compliance with any other standard
of said section.
2004.08   Plantings required by this Section shall comply with species and size
requirements set forth within Sections
2005 and
2006, respectively.
2004.09   Lighting installed in conjunction with the Landscaping required by
this Section shall comply with Article
21.
Section 2005: Plant Species
2005.01   All plantings, whether required or voluntarily installed, shall
comply with the requirements of this Section. Plantings within Right-of-Ways
(ROW) shall be subject to the restrictions of the entity owning said ROW. When
in conflict, the restrictions of the ROW owner shall control.
2005.02   Street trees installed within a tree lawn along any Street shall be
restricted to the following species:
   A)   In lawn strips two (2) to four (4) feet in width:
         American Hornbeam - aka Musclewood (Carpinus caroliniana)
         Eastern Redbud (Cercis canadensis)
         Serviceberry (Amelanchier sp.)
         Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn (Crataegus crusgalli inermis)
   B)   In lawn strips exceeding four (4) feet in width:
         American Hophornbeam    - aka Ironwood
         Black Tupelo (Nyssa sylvatica)
         Chickapin Oak (Quercus muehlenbergii)
         Elm hybrids (Ulmus sp.)
         Freeman Maple (Acer x freemanii)
         Kentucky Coffeetree (Gymnocladus dioicus)
         Lindens (Tilia sp.)
         Northern Red Oak (Quercus rubra)
         Thornless Honeylocust (Gleditsia triacanthos inermis)
         Shingle Oak (Quercus imbricaria)
         Shumard Oak (Quercus shumardii)
         Swamp White Oak (Quercus bicolor)
2005.03   The following tree species are strongly recommended and preferred for
any non-street tree plantings but are not a requirement:
   A)   Deciduous:
         American Sycamore (Platanus occidentalis)   
         Bur Oak (Quercus macrocarpa)   
         Cucumbertree (Magnolia acuminata)   
         Hackberry (Celtis occidentalis)   
         Overcup Oak (Quercus lyrate)   
         Persimmon (Diospyros virginiana)   
         Pin Oak (Quercus palustris)   
         Sugar Maple (Acer saccharum)   
         Sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua)   
         Tuliptree (Liriodendron tulipifera)   
         White Oak (Quercus alba)
   B)   Coniferous:
         Baldcypress (Taxodium distichum)   
         Canaan Fir (Abies balsamea var phanerolepis)   
         Concolor Fir (Abies concolor)   
         Dawn Redwood (Metasequoia glyptostroboides)   
         Eastern Arborvitate (Thuja occidentalis)   
         Eastern Red Cedar (Juniperus virginia)   
         Eastern White Pine (Pinus strobus)   
         Siberian Spruce (Picea omorika)   
         White Spruce (Picea glauca)
Section 2006: Size Requirements
2006.01   The following regulations are applicable wherever specified by this
Resolution unless otherwise stipulated or modified.
2006.02   All deciduous trees required by this Zoning Resolution shall be a
minimum of two and one-half (2 ½) inch caliper in size, measured six (6) inches
above the ground.
2006.03   All evergreen trees required by this Zoning Resolution shall be a
minimum of five and one-half (5 ½) feet in height, measured from finished
grade.
2006.04   All shrubs required by this Zoning Resolution shall be a minimum
twenty-four (24) inches in Height at the time of planting, measured from the
finished grade.
ARTICLE 21: Lighting Standards
Section 2101: Introduction
2101.01   Intent and Purpose.
   A)   Lighting that is well-designed, correctly installed, and appropriately
utilized promotes safety, increases security, and assists wayfinding by
enhancing the visibility of Lots , Building s, Structure s, Streets , parking
lots, sidewalks, bikeways, Open Space s, landscape features , and the like. In
the same vein, proper lighting can also greatly improve aesthetics, beautify
neighborhoods, and add value to a community. Lighting which is poorly designed,
incorrectly installed, and/or inappropriately utilized is, at best, a Nuisance
, and, at worst, a hazard. The intent and purpose of this Article is to
reasonably regulate lighting in a manner that protects public health, safety,
and general welfare, by:
      1)   establishing standards for brightness, spread, and intensity of
light;
      2)   creating dimensional restrictions for poles and supports;
      3)   providing restrictions related to the orientation of fixtures;
      4)   preserving order, attractiveness, and cleanliness; maintaining Open
Spaces, avoiding the appearance of clutter, and preventing Nuisance s and
invitations to vandalism;
      5)   maintaining property values and ensuring compatibility with
surrounding landscape and architecture, including, but not limited to, areas of
historical significance;
      6)   protecting and encouraging a more attractive economic, business, and
overall physical appearance of the community; and
      7)   protecting the environment from light pollution, which not only can
be visually disruptive but can also have a negative impact and detrimental
effect on vegetation and wildlife.
2101.02   All exterior parking lots, non-residential driveways, Streets ,
Pedestrian-Oriented amenities, and loading areas shall be illuminated in a
contextually sensible manner to provide safe movement on site, where necessary.
2101.03   The regulations within this Article are applicable to the Districts
within which they are specified unless otherwise stipulated, supplemented, and/
or modified by the regulations within a specified Zoning District .
Section 2102: General Requirements
2102.01   Parking lot lighting:
   A)   Parking lot lights shall be designed so that the source of illumination
is concealed within the housing of the light fixture.
   B)   All parking lot light fixtures shall be equipped with lenses that are
flat and installed parallel to the ground.
   C)   Lighting shall not be provided via floodlight, spotlight, or any
fixture that does not direct light downward.
   D)   Parking lot light dispersal from a Lot within a Non-Residential Zoning
District shall not exceed one (1) Footcandle at any Lot Line that is Contiguous
with a Lot or Tract within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District
.
   E)   Parking lot lights located within fifty (50) feet of any Lot Line
 Contiguous to a Residential or Planned Residential District shall be designed
to not direct any light towards said Lot Line . This shall be achieved by:
      1)   Shields affixed to the source of illumination: and/or
      2)   Directing LEDs away from said Lot Line ; and/or
      3)   Other innovative forms of control that achieve this requirement.
   F)   Parking lot lights may be attached to poles, Building s, or other
Structure s, but shall still comply with the provisions herein.
   G)   Parking lot lights shall not exceed a maximum Height of twenty-five
(25) feet. The measurement shall be taken from the finished grade established
not closer than fifteen (15) feet to the pole.
   H)   The correlated color temperature (CCT) of any LED fixture shall not
exceed 3,000° Kelvin.
2102.02   Pedestrian-Oriented lighting not located in parking lots:
   A)   Pedestrian-Oriented lights on poles shall be designed so that the
source of illumination is housed within the housing of the light fixture.
   B)   Pedestrian-Oriented lighting shall not be via floodlight or spotlight.
   C)   Pedestrian-Oriented lighting may be achieved by exposed light bulb
strings or similar types of fixtures. Such fixtures are intended for the
lighting of Pedestrian-Oriented areas and may be placed on Building s or
Structure s.
   D)   Illumination shall only be permitted via LED .
   E)   Pedestrian-Oriented lighting shall not exceed a maximum Height of
fifteen (15) feet measured from the adjacent grade.
   F)   Pedestrian-Oriented lighting installed integrally within sidewalks or
other similar types of paved areas shall be installed flush with said surface.
   G)   The correlated color temperature (CCT) of any LED fixture shall not
exceed 3,000° Kelvin.
2102.03   Building -mounted lighting, including canopies:
   A)   Building -mounted lights shall be designed so that the source of
illumination is concealed within the housing of the light fixture.
   B)   All building-mounted fixtures shall be equipped with lenses that are
flat and installed parallel to the ground.
   C)   Lighting shall not be provided via floodlight, spotlight, or any
fixture that does not direct light downward. Lighting designs or specifications
required by applicable building or fire codes shall be exempt from this
standard.
   D)   Light dispersal from a Lot within a Non-Residential Zoning District
shall not exceed one (1) Footcandle at any Lot Line that is Contiguous with a
Lot or Tract within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District .
   E)   The correlated color temperature (CCT) of any LED fixture shall not
exceed 3,000° Kelvin.
2102.04   Architectural lighting intended to highlight architectural features,
including lighting installed on or on top of Entry Feature s, Fences, gates,
masonry piers, Sign  Structure s, and walls:
   A)   Architectural lighting shall not allow the source of light to be
directly viewed from any Lot Line ’s standard line of sight.
   B)   Architectural lighting shall be permitted to have colors or shades that
change, but shall not be permitted to flash, change, move, and/or pulse in a
rapid manner.
2102.05   Streetlighting:
   A)   Streetlights shall be designed so that the source of illumination is a
top-down diode concealed within the housing of the light fixture.
   B)   Fixtures shall be equipped with lenses that are flat and installed
parallel to the ground.
   C)   Streetlights installed integrally within sidewalks or other similar
types of paved areas shall be installed flush with said surface.
   D)   The correlated color temperature (CCT) of any LED fixture shall not
exceed 3,000° Kelvin.
   E)   The maximum wattage output shall be 75 watts. This shall be achieved by
utilizing a wattage selector.
2102.06   In addition to the provisions of this Article, all outdoor light
fixtures shall be installed in conformity with all other applicable provisions
of this Resolution.
ARTICLE 22: Utilities and Related Use s
Section 2201: Introduction
2201.01   Intent and Purpose. The intent and purpose of this Article is to
establish, where permissible by Ohio law, reasonable regulations for Utilities
as well as other such related Use s, Structure s, and activities, that apply
equally and universally across all unincorporated areas of Genoa Township
regardless of Zoning District classification, unless otherwise specified within
this Zoning Resolution, to promote and protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the community.
Section 2202: General Requirements
2202.01   Utilities shall conform to the standards and provisions within this
Article unless otherwise exempted, protected, and/or superseded by state or
federal law.
2202.02   Planned Development s shall have an adequate source of potable water.
All water lines constructed within a Planned Development shall be the financial
responsibility of the owner or developer.
2202.03   No construction of Building s within any segment of a Planned
Development shall commence until after the extension of sanitary sewage lines
or approved sanitary treatment facilities required with alternative sewage
disposal systems have been completed.
2202.04   The following utility equipment shall be provided, constructed, and
installed underground within a Planned Development : gas lines, sanitary and
storm sewer lines, water lines, electrical lines, telephone lines, and cable
television lines.
2202.05   All utility systems shall be located and designed in such a manner
and method as to preserve the natural features of the land, such as streams,
rock outcropping, topsoil, trees, and shrubs. The same shall be incorporated
into and with the Landscaping of said lands.
2202.06   Easements of adequate size relative to their purpose across Lots or
centered on Lot Lines shall be provided and maintained for utilities where
necessary and required by agencies having jurisdiction over such matters.
Section 2203: Aerial Antennas and Satellite Dish Antennas
2203.01   The purpose of this section is to minimize the adverse visual effects
of antenna and satellite devices through design and Landscaping standards. It
protects properties that are adjacent and within the general vicinity from the
potential damage of antenna failure, falling ice, and debris. Telecommunication
towers, as defined in ORC 519.211, as may be amended, shall be regulated
pursuant to the provisions of Section
2204 of this Resolution.
2203.02   Antennas and Aerial Antennas. Aerial Antennas, not otherwise
regulated as a Telecommunication Tower in Section
2204, shall comply with the following requirements:
   A)   All antennas that are thirty-six (36) inches or less in Height or
completely within a Building or Structure shall not require a Zoning Permit
prior to installation in any Zoning District . The measurement of an antenna’s
Height shall include any mounting to which it is affixed.
   B)   All antennas exceeding thirty-six (36) inches in Height , or not
otherwise exempt, shall require a Zoning Permit prior to installation in any
Zoning District and shall comply with the following:
      1)   Installations shall only be permitted to:
         a)    the rear of a Principal Structure ; or
         b)   Attached to the side or top of a Principal Structure .
      2)   No antenna requiring a Zoning Permit shall be constructed to a
Height greater than the distance from the center of the base thereof to the
nearest property line less ten percent (10%) of the Height of the antenna,
unless the design of the antenna foundation and guying system have been
designed by, and the plans and computations imprinted with the seal of, a
Professional Engineer registered to practice in the State of Ohio, and these
plans and computations are placed on file with the Zoning Inspector.
      3)   In no instance shall an antenna be erected within a required minimum
Setback .
2203.03   Satellite Dish Antenna . Installation of Satellite Dish Antennas, not
otherwise regulated as a Telecommunication Tower in Section
2204, shall comply with the following:
   A)   No Zoning Permit for the installation of a disk or dish shall be
required for a dish measuring 39.37” (one (1) meter) in diameter or less. A
Zoning Permit shall be required for any dish greater than 39.37” (one (1)
meter) in diameter.
   B)   No installation shall be made forward of the Front Building Line of the
Principal Structure .
   C)   No installation shall be placed closer than twenty (20) feet to any Lot
Line .
   D)   No disk or dish having a diameter of greater than 39.37” (one (1)
meter) shall be located on the roof of any residential Structure or Accessory
Building on a Lot within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning District .
   E)   The top of the disk or dish shall stand no more than twelve (12) feet
above ground level or a finished grade elevation.
   F)   No disk or dish having a diameter of greater than 39.37” (one (1)
meter) shall be installed on the roof or other mounting more than six (6) feet
above ground level or finished grade elevation in a Non-Residential Zoning
District unless the mounting of the same is designed to withstand a wind force
of eighty-five (85) miles per hour and a certificate is furnished to the Zoning
Inspector, signed by a licensed and qualified engineer, that the installation
conforms with said restriction.
   G)   No disk or dish shall be permitted that exceeds twelve (12) feet in
diameter unless the same is specifically approved as part of a Planned
Development .
2203.04   Should any provisions within this Zoning Resolution impair the
ability to operate Amateur Radio Communications pursuant to ORC 519.214, ORC
5502.031, the Federal Communications Act of 1996, Federal Communications
Commission regulations, or any other similar rules or regulations, or should
they be found to impair the operation of such pursuant to the aforementioned,
said laws, regulations, and/or agencies shall control and an exception shall be
made to the provision by the Zoning Inspector without the need to obtain a
Variance or Conditional Use approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals .
Section 2204: Telecommunications Tower s
2204.01   Public Utilities or other functionally equivalent providers may site
a telecommunications tower as a permitted Use in Non-Residential Zoning
Districts . Local zoning authority shall not extend to the regulation of
maintenance or use of such a tower or to any change or Alteration that would
not substantially increase the tower’s Height . Local zoning authority over
proposed telecommunications towers shall apply only to a tower, only upon the
provision of a notice of objection to that particular tower. No blanket zoning
authority exists over telecommunication towers in Residential or Planned
Residential Districts unless and until a written objection has been timely
filed.
2204.02   Telecommunication towers may be regulated in areas zoned for
residential Use , those areas being classified by this Resolution as
Residential and Planned Residential Zoning Districts , upon receipt of an
objection pursuant to ORC 519.211(B)(2). The provisions of this Resolution
concerning telecommunication towers are not intended to replace or modify ORC
519.211 but instead are intended to incorporate ORC 519.211 and its terms into
this Resolution. Any notice of an objection shall comply with the provisions of
ORC 519.211(B)(3). Upon timely receipt by the Township Trustees of an objection
to a proposed telecommunication tower, the Trustees shall proceed as provided
in ORC 519.211(B)(4)(a). Telecommunication towers shall be permitted as a Use
exempt from any local zoning authority in residential zoned areas if no
objections are timely filed as provided in ORC 519.211(B)(4)(b). If objections
are timely filed, consistent with ORC 519.211(B) for a proposed
telecommunications tower in a District zoned for residential Use then the
telecommunications may only be permitted as a Conditional Use by the Board of
Zoning Appeals , provided that all of the following conditions of this Section
are met. An application for Conditional Use shall be filed with the Board of
Zoning Appeals .
   A)   Conditional Use Application Requirements. In addition to the
requirements of Section
302, the application shall include:
      1)   A preliminary development plan must be submitted at the time the
application for the Conditional Use Permit is submitted. The preliminary
development plan shall contain the following:
         a)    The location of all the applicant’s existing facilities, both
within the Township and within one (1) mile of the proposed site.
         b)    The general location of planned future facilities, if known.
         c)    For each location shown on the plan, there shall be listed:
            i)   The type and size of tower at each location;
            ii)   The type of equipment located or proposed on each tower;
            iii)   The space available on the tower for additional equipment;
            iv)   The ground network, if any, served by the tower; and
            v)    A site plan showing the Lot on which any existing or proposed
tower, antenna, or equipment is located.
         d)   A site plan for the facility that is being applied for shall also
be submitted, containing:
            i)    The location, type, and size of existing and proposed towers,
antennas, and equipment located at the site;
            ii)    The location of existing and proposed buildings and
structures, access easements, and parking areas;
            iii)    Detailed drawings of the screening plan and related design
standards; and
         e)   A written certification from a Professional Engineer registered
in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, certifying the following:
            i)    That the tower’s design is structurally sound and in
compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local building laws,
including, without limitation, the Ohio Basic Building Code and the National
Electric Code;
            ii)   That the tower complies with all current FCC regulations for
non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation (NIER); and
            iii)    That the tower will, to the extent possible, accommodate
co-location of additional wireless communication antennas for future use, with
a statement as to the number of antennas capable of being accommodated and the
ultimate Height needed for the stated co-location capacity; or, alternatively,
an explanation as to the reasons why the tower will not be constructed to
accommodate co-location.
         f)   The contact information of the owner/operator so that any issues
with the Telecommunications Tower and/or accessory facilities may be reported.
Any subsequent or future change to the owner/operator of the tower shall be
communicated to the township immediately.
         g)   Documentation that notice has been provided in accordance with
ORC 519.211 of the ORC , as may be amended.
         h)   A signed statement indicating that the applicant agrees to allow
for the potential co-location of other antenna facilities to the extent
possible until said tower has reached full antenna capacity.
   B)   General Requirements for Telecommunication Towers.
      1)   Location, Co-location, or Shared Use . To minimize tower
proliferation, the applicant or tower provider shall demonstrate that the
Telecommunications Tower must be located where it is proposed to service the
applicant’s service area and that there are no alternative sites reasonably
available in any area. This shall include an explanation and accompanying
documentation as to why a tower on this proposed site is technically necessary;
a description of the suitability of the use of existing towers, other
structures, or technology not requiring the use of the proposed new tower; and
a demonstration that a technically suitable location is not reasonably
available on an existing tower, Building or Structure . If another tower is
technically suitable, the applicant must show that a request to co-locate was
made and that such a request was rejected.
      2)   All towers shall meet or exceed current standards and regulations of
the FAA, FCC, and any other agency of the state or federal government with the
authority to regulate such towers. Proof of review and compliance with such
shall be provided to the township at the time township zoning approval is
sought. If the applicable standards and regulations are changed, then the
owners/operators of the towers shall, if required by the applicable
governmental authority, bring such towers into compliance with the revised
standards and regulations within six (6) months of the effective date of such
standards and regulations, unless a different compliance schedule is mandated
by the applicable governmental authority.
      3)   Any Telecommunications Tower is deemed abandoned by operation of law
if it is not used for telecommunication purposes for twelve (12) consecutive
months. The owner/operator shall remove a tower within one hundred eighty (180)
days after the tower’s use is discontinued or deemed abandoned. All costs
associated with the demolition of the Telecommunications Tower , equipment,
Building s, and other associated Structure s shall be borne by the property
owner of record, lessor, lessee, and/or operator of the Telecommunications
Tower .
      4)   The owner/operator shall annually file a declaration with the Zoning
Inspector which certifies that the radio frequency transmission and/or
reception equipment attached to the tower is in use and is operational.
   C)   Development Standards for all Telecommunication Towers .
      1)   No telecommunications tower shall be permitted to be located in any
platted subdivision approved under ORC 711.05, 711.09, or 711.10, as may be
amended, or in any area consisting of fifteen (15) or more lots approved under
ORC 711.131, as may be amended, that are Contiguous to one another, or some of
which are Contiguous to one another and adjacent to one side of a dedicated
public road , and the balance of which are Contiguous to one another and
adjacent to the opposite side of the same dedicated public road , when at least
thirty-five percent (35%) of the lots within such subdivision or area are
developed with at least one (1) Dwelling unit.
      2)   Site Requirements.
         a)   The minimum Lot Area for which a tower is to be placed shall be
two (2) acres.
         b)   The Lot on which the tower is to be located shall meet the
minimum Frontage requirements of the Zoning District in which it is located.
      3)   Heights:
         a)   The maximum allowable Height for any freestanding or attached
 Structure proposed to have attached to it radio frequency transmission or
reception equipment, which is located in a Residential or Planned Residential
Zoning District and owned or to be principally used by a public utility engaged
in the provision of telecommunications services, shall be eight (8) feet.
Telecommunications Tower s may exceed eight (8) feet in Height if complies with
all of the regulations set forth within this Section.
         b)   The maximum permitted Height of a Telecommunications Tower not
otherwise referenced above, shall be one hundred fifty (150) feet. For the
purposes of this standard, Height shall be measured from the base of the
Telecommunications Tower to the top point of said tower, including any
antennas. The foregoing shall supersede any other Height restrictions or
measurement methodologies set forth in this Zoning Resolution.
         c)   The maximum Height of any other Accessory Structures shall not
exceed twelve (12) feet.
         d)   The maximum Height of any Accessory Buildings shall not exceed
twenty-four (24) feet.
      4)   Setback s.
         a)   The tower shall not be placed closer than one hundred fifty (150)
feet from any existing residential Dwelling unit.
         b)   The tower shall be Setback at least eighty (80) feet from the
Front Lot Line .
         c)   A tower shall be set back from any adjoining Lot Line a distance
which is equal to the Height of the tower as measured from its base.
         d)   Any stabilization Structure s or guy wires shall not be placed
closer than fifty (50) feet from any Lot Line .
      5)   Layout.
         a)   Parking for the tower shall be limited to two (2) spaces unless a
need for more can be demonstrated at the time of application.
         b)   Where there is co-location of equipment upon Telecommunication
Towers, no single provider of telecommunication services shall have more than
one (1) equipment Building on site. Equipment buildings of different providers
shall be arranged to appear as a single Building as practically as possible.
         c)   Underground equipment structures are strongly encouraged.
      6)   Security and Screening.
         a)   Fencing shall be provided to prevent uncontrolled access to the
tower site that includes any equipment, Building s, parking, etc.
         b)   The tower shall be screened by an eight (8) foot high Fence or
barrier and shall include a locked gate. All chain link fencing shall be coated
with a green or black vinyl material.
         c)   The outside perimeter of the security fence shall be planted with
a staggered row of evergreen trees, a minimum of six (6) feet in Height , at
time of planting, spaced not more than ten (10) feet on center.
         d)   A “NO TRESPASSING” Sign shall be provided and prominently posted.
         e)   The storage of any equipment must be contained inside the
screened area.
         f)   Anti-climbing devices may be utilized that add an additional foot
to the fence Height ; however, razor or barbed wire is not permitted.
         g)   Any screening, including vegetation and Landscaping , shall be
maintained in good condition by the owner/operator. The applicant is
responsible for ensuring that the area on which the tower is to be located is
kept free of weeds and waste. The outside storage of vehicles or equipment must
be contained within the screened area.
         h)   Existing vegetation shall be maintained. Dead and dying
vegetation shall be replaced no later than the subsequent planting season by a
similar species and/or native equivalent, subject to Section
2006 of this Zoning Resolution as well as the review and approval of the Zoning
Inspector.
      7)   Design.
         a)   The tower and related screening shall be designed to be
aesthetically and architecturally compatible with the surrounding environment.
The tower may be painted in non-contrasting gray or similar color, minimizing
its visibility, and shall not contain, or be illuminated by, artificial lights,
beacons, or strobes, unless otherwise required by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) or the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). All
surfaces shall be maintained in good condition, free of flaking or peeling
paint and rust. Unless otherwise approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals , the
tower shall be of a non-corrosive monopole design.
            i)   For any Telecommunications Tower that is in a highly visible
location, it is strongly encouraged to employ alternative tower designs (“no-
impact design”) or locations that mimic the surrounding environment, such as
artificial trees, modified clock towers, church spires, flag poles, or Building
modifications. The following provisions shall be met in order to be considered
no-impact design:
               (a)   The latest technology that is available for the purpose of
blending the Structure into the environment shall be utilized.
               (b)   The tower’s design shall render it minimally observable to
the casual observer.
               (c)   Towers attached to an existing Structure shall integrate
seamlessly into said Structure as it pertains to architecture, materials,
color, etc. The overall design shall not substantially increase the Height of
the Structure on which the tower is located, nor shall it substantially project
off the face of the Structure .
               (d)   Towers erected as new, freestanding Structure s shall be
designed to be consistent and complementary to the surrounding Structure s and
area by incorporating similar architecture, materials, color, Height , scale,
etc.
               (e)   Freestanding towers intended to mimic other features that
are present in the immediate vicinity, such as streetlights, trees, etc., shall
be virtually identical to the feature that they are mimicking and shall
maintain the same Height , size, pole diameter, fixture type, tree species,
etc.
               (f)   All related equipment, electrical boxes, conduits, wiring,
mounting equipment, and the like shall not be visible.
            ii)   On any Lot or Tract adjacent to a Planned Residential Zoning
District or Residential Zoning District , the use of residentially compatible
paint colors and materials, such as wood, brick, or stucco, shall be required
for associated Accessory Structures so that they architecturally blend with
existing residential Structure s in the vicinity. If the site is located within
a Planned Development , the materials shall meet the standards of such, if
applicable, as well as the procedural review process set forth for Planned
Development s established within this Zoning Resolution.
            iii)   Stealth Design s for Telecommunication Towers may be
considered as an alternative to the requirements of this Section in all areas
of the Township as a Conditional Use by the Board of Zoning Appeals in
accordance with Article
3. In addition, if utilizing Stealth Design , the following requirements shall
be satisfied:
               (a)   All Stealth Design s shall utilize the latest technology
that is available for the purpose of blending the Structure into the
environment.
               (b)   The Stealth Design shall render it minimally visible to
the casual observer.
               (c)   The tower may be attached to an existing Structure if it
is designed to integrate seamlessly into the Structure to which it is attached
in regard to architecture, materials, color, etc. The overall design shall not
substantially increase the Height of the Structure on which it is located, nor
shall it substantially project off the face of the Structure .
      8)   No advertising is permitted anywhere on the telecommunications tower
facility except for the ‘NO TRESPASSING’ Sign required herein, and one (1)
identification sign not to exceed one (1) square foot in size.
      9)   Operations.
         a)   The tower shall be fully automated and unattended daily and shall
be visited only for periodic and necessary maintenance. Also, all utility
services to the tower shall be underground in accordance with applicable
federal, state, and local codes.
         b)   Building s shall not include business offices, long-term vehicle
storage, Outdoor Storage , other uses not necessary for transmission or
reception, or broadcast studios, except for emergency purposes.
      10)   Where the tower is located on a property that is not owned by the
tower operator, the applicant shall present documentation that the owner of the
property has approved the application and that vehicular access is provided to
the property. Reasonable access and circulation shall be provided to the tower.
      11)   Antenna towers are not permitted to be built to a Height that
exceeds the applicant’s service need as substantiated by the testimony and
certification of the applicant’s engineer. If the tower must be extended in the
future to accommodate co-location, the initial tower foundation must be
designed to accommodate this extension capability. The ultimate Height shall be
specified on the drawings submitted with the application. Unless otherwise
approved, the tower Height shall not be extended until co-locators are
installed.
      12)   A tower may be Attached to a residential or nonresidential Building
or Structure that is a permitted Use and Structure in the District, provided
that the tower’s Height does not exceed twenty (20) feet above the existing
Building or Structure to which the tower is Attached ; and further provided
that all requirements except those found in Sections
2204.02.C.3.b and
2204.02.C.6.a through
2204.02.C.6.h herein are met. All roof-mounted towers shall be screened from
view to the extent possible. The outside storage of vehicles or equipment, if
not located inside the Building or Structure on which the tower is located,
shall be screened by a minimum eight (8) foot high solid masonry or concrete
wall and, outside of and along the wall, a continuous evergreen hedge, trees or
similar landscape materials of a size and type deemed appropriate by the Board
of Zoning Appeals . The screening shall be maintained in good condition. Any
solid wall shall contain no advertising but may contain one small
identification Sign not to exceed one (1) square foot in size. The applicant is
responsible for ensuring that the tower area is kept free of Junk , waste, and
weeds.
      13)   Telecommunications Tower s shall not be artificially lit unless
required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or other applicable
Federal or State authorities. When so required, a detailed lighting plan shall
be submitted with the application, which shall demonstrate it is required by
the FAA, FCC, or any other governmental agency that has jurisdiction. In
addition to the applicable provisions of Article
21, the lighting plan shall also meet the following requirements:
         a)   All lighting by the FAA shall be installed on the
Telecommunications Tower immediately and must always be fully operational.
         b)   When required by the FAA, white strobe lights during the day will
be permitted with red flashing lights required from dusk to dawn.
         c)   Ground-level security lighting may be permitted, including
freestanding and building-mounted lighting. Such lighting shall be oriented
inward, utilize full cut-off fixtures no more than twelve (12) feet in Height ,
and shall be designed to minimize impacts on adjacent properties.
         d)   In any case, overall site illumination shall be such that
measurements along the perimeter of the security fencing shall not exceed 0.20-
foot candles (aka 0.20 fc).
      14)   Safety and Structural Integrity.
         a)   All new Telecommunications Tower s or existing Telecommunications
Tower s are to be certified by a structural engineer who is licensed in the
State of Ohio to be in compliance with all current standards and requirements
of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and the Telecommunications
Industry Association (TIA), including, but not limited to, specification RS
222-F, and the Electronic Industries Association (EIA).
         b)   To ensure the structural integrity of Telecommunications Tower s
and to protect the public health, safety, and morals, Telecommunications Tower
s shall be subject to periodic inspections for continued compliance with the
above Subsection as follows:
            i)   Monopole towers shall be subject to inspections every ten (10)
years.
            ii)   Self-support (Lattice) towers shall be subject to inspections
every five (5) years.
            iii)   Guyed Towers shall be subject to inspections every three (3)
years.
         c)   Inspections are the sole responsibility of the Telecommunications
Tower operator of record and shall be performed by a structural engineer
licensed in the State of Ohio. Results of inspections shall be provided in
writing to the Zoning Inspector. Based upon such results, the repair or removal
of a Telecommunications Tower may be required.
         d)   All Telecommunications Tower s shall be designed to accommodate
the primary user's antennas and comparable antennas for at least two (2)
additional users.
         e)   Maintenance of Telecommunications Tower sites shall adhere to the
terms and conditions of this Resolution.
   D)   Exception to Conditional Use Permit . Telecommunications Tower s
meeting the following conditions shall not be required to obtain a Conditional
Use Permit but shall be deemed to be permitted Use s requiring a Certificate of
Zoning Compliance .
      1)   Should the owner/operator of a telecommunications tower desire to
site a tower on property that falls under their direct ownership and with the
consent of the Township Trustees , then a Certificate of Zoning Compliance may
be obtained in lieu of a Conditional Use Permit , provided that the
requirements founding the following provisions are met: A.1.e.i and ii; B.2, 3,
and 4; and C.5, 7, 10, 11, 13, and 14; herein.
      2)   Should the owner/operator of a telecommunications tower desire to
co-locate a tower on another existing telecommunications tower or on another
utility Structure (i.e., water tower) and such co-location will result in a
substantial change in the Height of the tower, then a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance may be obtained in lieu of a Conditional Use Permit , provided that
the requirements found in the following sub-sections of Section
2204.02 are met: A.1.e.i and ii; B.2, 3, and 4; and C.4.b, C.6, C.7.a, C.8,
C.10, and C.12; herein. A substantial change in Height shall mean the addition
of more than forty (40) feet to the existing tower or Structure .
      3)   Should the owner/operator of a telecommunications tower desire to
site a tower using a no-impact design (specifically meaning that the tower will
be completely invisible to the casual observer by incorporating the tower
within an existing Structure such as inside a steeple), then a Certificate of
Zoning Compliance may be obtained in lieu of a Conditional Use Permit ,
provided that the requirements found in the following provisions are met:
A.1.e.i and ii; B.2, 3, and 4; and C.10, 11, 12, and 13; herein.
   E)   Accessory Telecommunications. Accessory Telecommunications shall be
permitted within a Right-of-Way , a utility easement, or on private property,
provided the criteria of this Section are met.
      1)   Accessory Telecommunications up to fifteen (15) feet in height shall
be permitted in areas where all utilities are underground, provided that:
         a)   A no-impact design shall be utilized subject to the process and
requirements of Section
2204.02.7.c herein.
         b)   For the purpose of this Section, smaller ground-mounted
electrical boxes shall not be considered an aboveground utility.
      2)   Accessory Telecommunications up to thirty-five (35) feet in height
shall be permitted inside of a Right-of-Way or a recorded utility easement, in
areas where overhead utilities are present, subject to the following
requirements:
         a)   The requirements of paragraph (2) of this Section, with regard to
"Location, Co­location or Shared Use" shall apply.
         b)   The location is within one hundred (100) feet of an existing
overhead utility line.
         c)   The preferred location is along Major Arterials, Minor Arterials,
and Major Collector Road s, as defined by the Delaware County Thoroughfare Plan
. If it cannot be located in such an area, documentation shall be provided
regarding the efforts that have been exhausted in attempts to meet these
locations.
         d)   Accessory Telecommunications shall be located on existing utility
poles where practical. If a new utility pole is required, it should, to the
extent reasonably practicable, be located on the same side of the road as
existing utility poles. If the new utility pole is required on the opposite
side of the road from the existing utility poles, but there are no other
overhead wires crossing the road , the crossover wires related to the Accessory
Telecommunications shall be located underground, where practical. If the
requirements of this paragraph are determined not to be practical,
documentation shall be provided with the reasons stated.
         e)   If a new utility pole is required, it shall be designed to
accommodate the primary user's antenna and a comparable antenna for at least
one additional user.
         f)   Any ground-mounted equipment shall be completely screened with
evergreen Landscaping providing year-round screening.
         g)   Accessory Telecommunications shall not obstruct adequate sight
distance at intersections.
         h)   Lighting shall not be permitted on Accessory Telecommunications
unless it is integrated as a light pole that matches other light poles in the
vicinity.
      3)   Accessory Telecommunications up to sixteen (16) feet in height shall
be permitted outside of a Right-of-Way and outside of a recorded utility
easement, in areas where overhead utilities are present, subject to the
following requirements:
         a)   The Accessory Telecommunications shall be regulated as an
Accessory Structure with regard to location. Additionally, they shall also be
set back from all Principal Structure s on adjacent properties a minimum
distance equal to the overall Height of the Accessory Telecommunications .
         b)   If located in a recorded subdivision, and at least one hundred
(100) feet from any overhead utilities, all wiring and cables shall be buried
underground. Additionally, if the Accessory Telecommunications is located on a
tower, it shall be a decorative pole with the equipment disguised or screened
from view.
      4)   All other Accessory Telecommunications are prohibited.
2204.03   Abandoned Telecommunications. The owner or operator of a
Telecommunications Tower or Access Telecommunications  Use shall notify the
Township within thirty (30) days of abandonment.
   A)   Such facility shall be removed by the applicant and the site restored
to its original state within one hundred and twenty (120) days from the date of
notification to the Township.
   B)   Any tower that has had no antenna mounted upon it for a period of six
(6) months, or if the antenna mounted thereon are not operated for period of
three (3) months, shall be considered abandoned, and the owner thereof shall
remove the tower within and restore the site to its original state within one
hundred and twenty (120) days after receipt of a notice to do so from the
Zoning Inspector.
   C)   In the event that more than one service provider is using an antenna
support Structure , the antenna support Structure shall not be considered
abandoned until all such users cease using the Structure pursuant to this
Section.
Section 2205: Wind Farms
2205.01   Large Wind Farms , which may also be known as large wind projects,
shall be required to submit an application to the Ohio Power Siting Board
(OPSB) at the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) and are required to
meet OPSB regulations.
2205.02   Small Wind Farms , which may also be known as small wind projects,
used solely for Agriculture , will be exempt from these zoning regulations as
an Agricultural Use in accordance with Section
2302 herein and ORC 519.01 and 519.21, as may be amended.
2205.03   Any proposed construction , Erection , or siting of a Small Wind
Farms , which may also be known as small wind projects, including the wind
turbine generator or Anemometer or any parts thereof, shall be permitted in the
Zoning Districts specified in Article
5 herein.
2205.04   The following conditions shall be met for both by-right and
Conditional Use  Zoning Permit s;
   A)   The maximum Height of any Wind Power Turbine Tower , which is
considered the total Height of the of the turbine system, including the tower
and the maximum vertical Height of the turbine’s blades, shall be:
      1)   Small Wind Farms : Fifty (50) feet.
      2)   All other Wind Farms : One hundred twenty-five (125) feet.
   B)   Setback s: Any turbine erected on a Lot shall be setback 1.1 times the
height, as measured per the methodology set forth in this section, of the
tower, or established “Clear Fall Zone ”, from all road Right-of-Way lines and
neighboring property lines. A turbine shall be erected and placed in such a
manner that if it were to fall, whatever direction the fall occurs would be
contained solely on the property where the turbine is located and would not
strike any structures, including the primary Dwelling , and any inhabited
Structure s.
   C)   Battery Energy Storage Systems shall comply with applicable terms of
Section
2207.
   D)   Maintenance: Wind turbines must be maintained in good working order.
The owner shall, within thirty (30) days of permanently ceasing operation of a
wind turbine, provide written notice of abandonment to the Zoning Inspector. An
unused wind turbine or Small Wind Project may stand no longer than twelve (12)
months following abandonment. All costs associated with the demolition of the
wind turbine and associated equipment shall be borne by the owner. A wind
turbine is considered abandoned when it ceases transmission of electricity for
thirty (30) consecutive days. Wind turbines that become inoperable for more
than twelve (12) months must be removed by the owner within thirty (30) days of
issuance of a zoning violation. Removal includes removal of all apparatuses,
supports, and/or other hardware associated with the existing wind turbine.
   E)   Decibel levels shall not exceed those provided by the manufacturer as
requested in Section
2205.05. All units collectively shall operate at not more than five (5)
Decibels above the established ambient Decibel levels at Lot Lines . This
information shall be included in the engineering report described in Section
2205.05. This information shall be obtained from the manufacturer of the
turbine, and all Decibel readings, if necessary, shall be taken from the
nearest neighboring Lot Lines . Those turbines that do not meet this
requirement will be issued a zoning violation, in accordance with Section
116, and shall be required to shut down immediately until the required Decibel
levels are met.
   F)   Wiring and electrical apparatuses: All wires and electrical apparatuses
associated with the operation of a wind turbine unit shall be located
underground and meet all applicable local, state, and federal codes, including
any Delaware County building regulations and Residential Building Code of Ohio.
   G)   Warning Signs: Appropriate warning signs to address voltage shall be
posted.
   H)   Building Permits: All Small Wind Projects and parts thereof shall
obtain all applicable building permits from the State of Ohio and Delaware
County.
2205.05   Permits: A permit shall be required before construction can commence
on an individual wind turbine project. As part of the permit process, the
applicant shall inquire with the Delaware County Department of Building Safety
as to whether additional Height restrictions are applicable due to the unit’s
location in relation to any local airports. In addition to the items required
by Section
115.01 of this Zoning Resolution, the Applicant shall also provide or include
as part of the application packet:
   A)   The location of all public and private airports in relation to the
location of the wind turbine.
   B)   The total Height and size of the unit.
   C)   If applicable, the total size and depth of the unit’s foundation
structure, as well as soil and bedrock data.
   D)   A list and/or depiction of all safety measures that will be on the
unit, including anti-climb devices, grounding devices, lightning protection,
braking systems, guy wiring, and anchors.
   E)   Data specifying the kilowatt size and generating capacity in kilowatts
of the particular unit.
   F)   The maximum Decibel level of the particular unit. This information
shall be obtained from the manufacturer of the turbine unit.
   G)   Hazardous materials containment and disposal plan.
   H)   A site drawing showing the location of the unit in relation to existing
structures on the property, roads, and other public Right-of-Ways and
neighboring property lines.
   I)   Evidence of established setback s of 1.1 times the Height of the
turbine and “Clear Fall Zone ”. The manufacturer’s recommendation must also be
included.
   J)   A maintenance schedule as well as a dismantling plan that outlines how
the unit will be dismantled shall be required as part of the permit.
2205.06   The standards set forth for the abandonment of a Telecommunications
Use in Section
2204.03 shall also apply to Wind Farms .
Section 2206: Solar Facilities
2206.01   Small Solar Facilities.
   A)   Small Solar Facilities of fifty (50) megawatts or more shall be
required to submit an application to the Ohio Power Siting Board (OPSB) at the
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) and are required to meet OPSB
regulations.
   B)   The Zoning Districts in which Small Solar Facilities are permitted, as
well as the type of approval (i.e., by right or conditional) shall be as
established within Article
5, Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses ; and Article
5, Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses .
   C)   General Requirements.
      1)   Integrated or Rooftop Solar Energy Systems :
         a)   Height : An Integrated or Rooftop Solar Energy System shall not
protrude more than two (2) feet above the roofline of a building on which they
are mounted, not to exceed the maximum Building  Height .
         b)   Coverage: An Integrated or Rooftop Solar Energy System shall be
permitted to cover up to one hundred percent (100%) of a Structure’s walls and/
or roof, as applicable.
      2)   Ground Mounted Solar Energy Systems :
         a)   Height : The maximum Height of any Ground Mounted Solar Energy
System at any point shall not exceed twelve (12) feet.
         b)   Coverage: Ground Mounted Solar Energy Systems shall be subject to
any applicable Building and/or Lot Coverage restrictions within this
Resolution. In the event a Zoning District does not have such restrictions, all
Ground Mounted Solar Energy System (s) shall not exceed in the aggregate ten
percent (10%) of the total area of the Lot or Tract .
         c)   Visual Buffer: Ground Mounted Solar Energy Systems shall have a
visual buffer of natural vegetation, plantings, and/or fencing that provides
reasonable visual screening to minimize the view of, and noise from, the Small
Solar Facilities on adjacent lots and from any public Right-of-Way . Ground
Mounted Solar Energy Systems located on Corner Lot s shall comply with the
applicable requirements (including, but not limited to, those for Yards,
buffering, and screening) for lots in the Zoning District where located.
      3)   All Other Small Solar Facilities :
         a)   Height : The maximum Height of all other Small Solar Facilities
at any point shall not exceed the lesser of twelve (12) feet or the maximum
Height for Accessory Structures in the Zoning District where located.
         b)   Coverage: A Ground Mounted Solar Energy System shall have a
visual buffer of natural vegetation, plantings, and/or fencing that provides
reasonable visual screening to minimize the view of, and noise from, the Small
Solar Facilities on adjacent Lots and from any public Right-of-Way . Ground
Mounted Solar Energy Systems located on corner lots shall comply with the
applicable requirements (including, but not limited to, those for yards,
buffering, and screening) for lots in the Zoning District where located.
         c)   Visual Buffer: All Other Small Solar Facilities shall have a
visual buffer of natural vegetation, plantings, and/or fencing that provides
reasonable visual screening to reduce the view of, and noise from, the Small
Solar Facilities on adjacent Lots and from any public Right-of-Way . All Other
Small Solar Facilities located on Corner Lot s shall comply with the applicable
requirements (including, but not limited to, those for Yards, buffering, and
screening) for lots in the Zoning District where located.
      4)   Lighting. Any lighting for a Small Solar Facility shall meet any
lighting restrictions applicable to the Zoning District where located. In the
event there are no applicable provisions regarding lighting, all lighting in,
of, and associated with the Small Solar Facility must narrowly focus light
inward toward the solar equipment, be downlit and shielded, and result in a
maximum horizontal illuminance level not to exceed one foot-candle. Small Solar
Facilities shall be placed or arranged in a manner so as not to reflect
unreasonable glare onto adjacent buildings, properties, or roadways.
      5)   Noise. Any Small Solar Facility shall comply with the Genoa Township
Noise Resolution and all applicable noise restrictions set forth within the
Township, including, but not limited to, those applicable to the Zoning
District where located. In the event there are no applicable provisions
regarding noise, no Small Solar Facility shall emit sound to an adjacent lot at
a level exceeding seventy decibels (70 dB) between the daytime hours of 7:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m., Eastern Time, or forty decibels (40 dB) during all other
hours.
      6)   Setback s. Any Small Solar Facility must comply with the Setback
requirements applicable to the Zoning District where it is located.
      7)   Building Energy Storage Systems installed as part of such a facility
shall comply with all applicable terms of Section
2207.
      8)   Maintenance. Small Solar Facilities must be always maintained in
good working order. The owner of the property and owner of the Small Solar
Facilities shall, within thirty (30) days of permanently ceasing operation of a
Small Solar Facility , provide written notice of abandonment to the Zoning
Inspector. An unused Small Solar Facility may stand no longer than three (3)
months following abandonment. All costs associated with the dismantling/
demolition of the Small Solar Facility and associated equipment shall be borne
by the property owner. A Small Solar Facility is considered abandoned when it
ceases transmission of electricity for thirty (30) consecutive days. Removal
includes removal of all apparatuses, supports, and/or other hardware associated
with the existing Small Solar Facility and, in the case of Ground Mounted Solar
Energy Systems , installed, returning the property to a graded, seeded, and/or
landscaped state similar to its condition prior to the construction /
installation.
      9)   Building Permits. All Small Solar Facilities and parts thereof shall
obtain all applicable required Building Permits from the State of Ohio,
Delaware County, and/or other agencies having jurisdiction.
      10)   Advertising. Small Solar Facilities and the property where located
shall not be used for the display of advertising. For the purposes of this
Section, reasonable and customary identification (name, insignia, logo, and/or
similar) of the manufacturer or operator of the system that is incorporated
into or manufactured on the equipment itself shall not be considered
advertising.
      11)   Other Restrictions. A Small Solar Facility shall comply with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations.
   D)   Criterial for Conditional Use s.
      1)   A Small Solar Facility to be located in a Zoning District in which
it is identified as a Conditional Use is subject to and shall follow the
application process for a Conditional Use Permit provided under this Zoning
Resolution.
      2)   Where identified as a conditionally permitted Use , any Small Solar
Facility shall comply with the following specific requirements:
         a)   Road Use Maintenance Agreement: The property owner shall provide
for the adequate maintenance and protection of Township maintained, protected,
or managed infrastructure (including, but not limited to roadways, Rights-of-
Way , and easements) to be used in connection with the Small Solar Facility as
detailed further in a road use and maintenance agreement (“RUMA”) with the
Township. Any damaged public roads, culverts, and bridges shall be repaired
promptly to their previous or better condition by the property owner or their
designee under the guidance of the appropriate regulatory authority.
         b)   Safety Services: The property owner shall provide sufficient
evidence that the property can be adequately served by the appropriate safety
services, for example, a letter from the applicable fire department verifying
that emergency response personnel and vehicles can safely reach and service the
property, including the area where the Small Solar Facility is located.
      3)   Location:
         a)   Any Small Solar Facility other than an Integrated or Rooftop
Solar Energy System (except components located entirely underground) shall be
located entirely in the Rear Yard .
         b)   No Small Solar Facility shall be located on the front façade of
any structure or on any façade facing a public Right-of-Way .
         c)   No Small Solar Facility shall be located in front of a Principal
Building or Structure . In the case of Corner Lot s, no Small Solar Facility
shall be located between a Principal Building or Structure and a Public Right-
of-Way .
      4)   Height : the maximum Height of any Small Solar Facility shall not
exceed twelve (12) feet.
      5)   Buffers and Setback :
         a)   Where a Small Solar Facility is located on property adjacent to
or in close proximity to a Planned Residential Zoning District or Residential
Zoning District , no part of the Small Solar Facility (other than components
located entirely underground) shall be located within five hundred (500) feet
of an existing residential Dwelling .
         b)   No Small Solar Facility (other than components located entirely
underground) shall be located within two-hundred and fifty (250) feet of a Side
or Rear Lot Line .
         c)   No Small Solar Facility (other than components located entirely
underground) shall be located within one hundred (100) feet of a Front Lot Line
.
      6)   Visual Buffer: A Small Solar Facility shall have a visual buffer of
natural vegetation, plantings, and/or fencing designed to do all of the
following:
         a)   Enhances the view from any existing residential Dwelling and from
any public Right-of-Way ;
         b)   Is in harmony with the existing vegetation and viewshed in the
area; and
         c)   Provides reasonable visual screening to minimize the view of and
noise from the Small Solar Facilities to adjacent Lots and from any public
Right-of-Way .
      7)   Glare: Solar panels shall be placed or arranged in a manner so as
not to reflect unreasonable glare onto adjacent Building s, properties, or
roadways.
      8)   Lighting: All lights associated with the Small Solar Facility must
narrowly focus light inward toward the equipment, be downlit, and shielded.
Light dispersal shall not exceed one (1) Footcandle at any Lot Line that is
Contiguous with a Lot or Tract within a Residential or Planned Residential
Zoning District .
      9)   Fencing: Any fencing and/or screening installed in connection with
the Small Solar Facility shall be harmonious and compatible with the
surrounding properties and uses. Fencing shall be maintained in good repair and
in an aesthetic manner at all times.
      10)   Building Energy Storage Systems installed as part of such a
facility shall comply with all applicable terms of Section
2207.
      11)   Conditions: Any conditions or other requirements as determined by
the Board of Zoning Appeals in connection with the issuance of a Conditional
Use Permit .
   E)   Permit:
      1)   A Zoning Permit shall be required before any construction commences
on a Small Solar Facility .
      2)   In addition to the requirements of Article
1, an applicant shall provide the Township Zoning Inspector with the following
items and/or information when applying for a Zoning Permit :
         a)   An engineering report that shows:
            i)   The total size and Height of the proposed Small Solar Facility
.
            ii)   Data specifying the megawatt size and generating capacity in
megawatts of the particular Small Solar Facility .
            iii)   Hazardous materials containment and disposal plan.
         b)   A site drawing showing the location of the Small Solar Facility ,
including all equipment and components thereof in relation to (and measurements
of distances from) all existing structures on the property, road s, and other
public Rights-of-Way , and neighboring Lot Lines .
         c)   Evidence of compliance with applicable Setback s and all other
applicable zoning restrictions.
         d)   A maintenance schedule as well as a dismantling plan that
outlines how the Small Solar Facility , including all equipment and components
thereof, will be dismantled at the end of its use and/or upon abandonment.
         e)   Any other information or materials reasonably requested by the
Zoning Inspector.
   F)   The standards set forth for the abandonment of a Telecommunications Use
in Section
2204.03 shall also apply to Small Solar Facilities.
2206.02   Large Solar Facilities shall be exempt from the Genoa Township Zoning
Resolution pursuant to ORC 519.213, as may be amended or supplemented. Should
such a Use not or cease to be exempted by the ORC , or should such a Use fall
under the authority of Genoa Township zoning, such a facility shall only be
permitted in the Zoning Districts authorized by Article
5, Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses and shall otherwise be treated as, and
regulated by the provisions pertinent to, a Small Solar Facility as established
herein this Zoning Resolution for ‘All Other Solar Facilities’, including those
located within Section
2206.
Section 2207: Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS)
2207.01   Off-Site Battery Energy Storage Systems (Off-Site BESS).
   A)   All Off-Site BESS shall adhere to the following standards:
      1)   The Zoning Districts in which Off-Site BESS are permitted, as well
as the type of approval (e.g., by right, conditional) shall be as established
within Article
5, Section
505: Table of Authorized Principal Uses ; and Article
5, Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses .
      2)   Such systems shall comply with the latest edition of NFPA 855
Standard for the Installation of Stationary Energy Storage Systems, as may be
amended. Compliance includes that all system components and equipment shall be
listed by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory to UL 9540 (Standard for
Energy Storage Systems and Equipment) and that BESS are subject to UL 9540A
(Test Method for Evaluating Thermal Runaway Fire Propagation in Battery Energy
Storage Systems), as applicable.
      3)   Such systems shall be enclosed by an opaque, decorative perimeter
Fence not less than six (6) feet in height, supported on steel posts with
a self-latching gate.
      4)   All combustible vegetation or other combustible growth within twenty
(20) feet or less of the required perimeter fence shall be cleared, and any
tree stumps shall be removed. Single specimen trees, shrubbery, or cultivated
ground such as green grass, ivy, or similar plants used as ground covers shall
be permitted, provided that they do not form a means of readily transmitting
fire. Otherwise, removal of trees from any portion of the site outside of the
perimeter fence shall be minimized.
      5)   Landscaping shall comply with any standards explicitly set forth for
the Zoning District in which it is located; however, in areas of conflict,
Section
2207.01.A.4 herein shall prevail.
      6)   Lighting for such systems shall comply with Article
21, Lighting Standards.
      7)   Access drives shall be subject to approval by the Genoa Township
Fire Marshal and/or Delaware County.
      8)   Repair, Augmentation, and Repowering. In addition to repairing or
replacing BESS components to maintain the system, an Off-Site BESS may at any
time be augmented or repowered without the need to obtain a new Zoning Permit
so long as the augmentation or repowering is within the same footprint (e.g.,
same dedicated Use  Building or on footings/foundations in the same location)
as the original Zoning Permit and there is no significant change in the battery
chemistry (e.g., a change from one lithium-ion battery type, such as Lithium
Iron Phosphate, to another, such as Nickel Manganese Cobalt). When a BESS is
anticipated to be augmented, the applicant shall submit an augmentation plan as
part of the Zoning Permit application.
         a)   A proposal to change the project footprint or a significant
change in battery chemistry shall be considered a new Zoning Permit
application, subject to the Zoning Resolution in effect at the time the
application is submitted.
      9)   Maintenance. Off-Site BESS must be always maintained in good working
order. The owner of the property and owner of the Off-Site BESS shall, within
thirty (30) days of permanently ceasing operation of an Off-Site BESS, provide
written notice of abandonment to the Zoning Inspector. An unused Off-Site BESS
may stand no longer than three (3) months following abandonment. All costs
associated with the dismantling/demolition of the Off-Site BESS and associated
equipment shall be borne by the property owner. An Off-Site BESS is considered
abandoned when it ceases collecting, storing, and/or transmitting electricity
for thirty (30) consecutive days. Removal includes removal of all apparatuses,
supports, and/or other hardware associated with the existing Off-Site BESS and
returning the property to a graded, seeded, and/or landscaped state similar to
its condition prior to the construction /installation.
   B)   Small Off-Site BESS shall comply with Section
2207.01.A herein as well as the following:
      1)   Small Off-Site Battery Energy Storage Systems shall comply with the
Principal Building  Setback s established for the Zoning District in which it
is located.
   C)   Medium Off-Site BESS shall comply with Section
2207.01.A herein as well as the following:
      1)   Setback . Such systems shall be set back:
         a)   Five hundred (500) feet from any Lot within a Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District .
         b)   One hundred (100) feet from any Front Lot Line .
         c)   Two hundred and fifty (250) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
   D)   Large Off-Site BESS shall comply with Section
2207.01.A herein as well as the following:
      1)   Setback s. Such systems shall be set back:
         a)   One thousand (1,000) feet from any Lot within a Residential or
Planned Residential Zoning District .
         b)   Two hundred (200) feet from any Front Lot Line .
         c)   Five hundred (500) feet from any Side or Rear Lot Line .
2207.02   On-Site Battery Energy Storage Systems (On-Site BESS).
   A)   Where such a system qualifies as a Principal Use , it shall comply with
all applicable terms set forth in Section
2207.01 herein. For the purposes of this Section, the definitions and
parameters of Small, Medium, and Large Off-Site Battery Energy Storage Systems
shall be applied to distinguish the size and classification of On-Site BESS.
   B)   Where such a system qualifies as an Accessory Use , it shall be
permitted where specified in Article
5, Section
506: Table of Authorized Accessory Uses and regulated by the regulations
established for the Zoning District in which it is located, as well as all
applicable provisions of Article
16.
2207.03   All Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) not otherwise exempted from
obtaining a Zoning Permit by this Zoning Resolution shall comply with the
following:
   A)   Height . The Height of a BESS shall comply with any standards
explicitly set forth for the Zoning District in which it is located.
   B)   Coverage. BESS shall be subject to any applicable Building and/or Lot
Coverage restrictions within this Resolution. In the event a Zoning District
does not have such restrictions, all such systems shall not exceed in the
aggregate ten percent (10%) of the total area of the Lot or Tract .
   C)   Signage. Signage shall comply with Article
18, Sign Standards.
   D)   Noise. All BESS shall comply with the Genoa Township Noise Resolution
and all applicable noise restrictions set forth within the Township, including,
but not limited to, those applicable to the Zoning District where located. In
the event there are no applicable provisions regarding noise, no such system
shall emit sound to an adjacent lot at a level exceeding seventy decibels (70
dB) between the daytime hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., Eastern Time, or
forty decibels (40 dB) during all other hours.
   E)   Advertising. BESS and the property where located shall not be used for
the display of advertising. For the purposes of this Section, reasonable and
customary identification (name, insignia, logo, and/or similar) of the
manufacturer or operator of the system that is incorporated into or
manufactured on the equipment itself shall not be considered advertising.
   F)   Wiring and electrical apparatuses: All wires and electrical apparatuses
associated with the operation of a wind turbine unit shall be located
underground and meet all applicable local, state, and federal codes, including
any Delaware County building regulations and the Residential Building Code of
Ohio.
   G)   Other Restrictions. BESS shall comply with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws, rules, and regulations.
   H)   Conditions. In situations where such a Use is authorized via the
Conditional Use process established within Article
3, the Board of Zoning Appeals retains the right to establish additional
conditions or other requirements in connection with the issuance of a
Conditional Use Permit .
   I)   Zoning Permit .
      1)   Unless otherwise specified within this Zoning Resolution, a Zoning
Permit shall be required before any construction commences on a BESS.
      2)   In addition to the requirements of Article
1, an applicant shall provide the Township Zoning Inspector with the following
items and/or information when applying for a Zoning Permit :
         a)   An engineering report that shows:
            i)   The total size and Height of the proposed BESS.
            ii)   Data specifying the megawatt /kilowatt size and capacity in
megawatts/kilowatts of the particular BESS.
            iii)   Hazardous materials containment and disposal plan.
         b)   A site drawing showing the location of the BESS, including all
equipment and components thereof in relation to (and measurements of distances
from) all existing structures on the property, roads, and other public Rights-
of-Way , and neighboring Lot Lines .
         c)   Evidence of compliance with applicable Setback s and all other
applicable zoning restrictions.
         d)   A maintenance schedule as well as a dismantling plan that
outlines how the BESS, including all equipment and components thereof, will be
dismantled at the end of their use and/or upon abandonment.
         e)   Any other information or materials reasonably requested by the
Zoning Inspector.
   J)   Building Permits. All BESS and parts thereof shall obtain all
applicable required Building Permits from the State of Ohio, Delaware County,
and/or other agencies having jurisdiction.
2207.03   The standards set forth for the abandonment of a Telecommunications
Use in Section
2204.03 shall also apply to any type of BESS Use.
***** ARTICLE 23: Agriculture and Related Use s *****
Section 2301: Introduction
2301.01   Intent and Purpose. The intent and purpose of this Article is to
acknowledge the right of residents within township to engage in agricultural
activities (i.e., right to farm) with limited restrictions as provided for by
the laws of the State of Ohio and to establish, where permissible, reasonable
regulations for such activities that apply equally and universally across all
unincorporated areas of Genoa Township regardless of Zoning District
classification, unless otherwise specified within this Zoning Resolution, to
promote and protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the community.
2301.02   The right to farm includes the use of large irrigation pumps and
equipment, aerial and ground seeding and spraying, large tractors and
agricultural implements, and the application of fertilizers, insecticides,
pesticides, and herbicides. When conducted in accordance with generally
accepted agricultural practices, farming may occur at any time and on any day,
and the noise, odors, dust, and fumes necessarily associated with such a use
are expressly permitted as part of the exercise of the right to farm.
Section 2302: Agriculture
2302.01   In accordance with ORC 519.21, as may be amended, Agriculture shall
not be prohibited on Lots greater than five (5) acres. The use of any land for
agricultural purposes or the construction or use of Building s or Structure s
incidental to the agricultural Use of the land on which such Building s or
Structure s are located shall not be prohibited on lots greater than five (5)
acres, and no Zoning Permit shall be required for any such Building , Structure
, Use , or Sign .
2302.02   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in any platted subdivision approved
under ORC 711.05, 711.09 or 711.10, as may be amended, or in any area
consisting of fifteen (15) or more Lots approved under ORC 711.131, as may be
amended, that are Contiguous to one another, or some of which are Contiguous to
one another and adjacent to one side of a dedicated public Road , and the
balance of which are Contiguous to one another and adjacent to the opposite
side of the same dedicated public Road , agricultural Use s and Structure s are
subject to the terms and conditions of this Resolution in the following manner:
   A)   Agricultural Uses , except for well-maintained gardens for a resident’s
personal enjoyment and/or consumption, are prohibited on Lots of one (1) acre
or less unless such Use (s) is/are otherwise made to be compliant with the
standards set forth in Section
2302.02.
   B)   Building s or Structure s incidental to the use of land for
agricultural purposes on Lots greater than one (1) acre but not greater than
five (5) acres must conform to all Setback , size, and Height requirements that
apply in the underlying Zoning District . Furthermore, Building s housing
animals and/or fowl as pets or for domestic use, excluding swine and goats,
shall be set back fifty (50) or more feet from any Lot Line . Building s
housing swine and goats as pets or for domestic use shall be set back at least
two hundred (200) feet from any Lot Line . These restrictions shall not be
construed to apply to individual pens, pastures, or fields of less than five
(5) acres if part of a larger portion of land devoted to such Use .
   C)   Dairying and animal and poultry husbandry on Lots greater than one (1)
acre but less than five (5) acres when at least thirty-five percent (35%) of
the Lots in the subdivision are developed with at least one (1) Building ,
Structure , or improvement that is subject to real property taxation or that is
subject to the tax on manufactured homes under ORC 4503.06, as may be amended,
are subject to the provisions of this Zoning Resolution. After thirty-five
percent (35%) of the Lots are so developed, lawfully existing dairying and
animal and poultry husbandry shall be considered Non-conforming Use of land,
and Building s or Structure s pursuant to ORC 519.19, as may be amended, are
thereafter prohibited.
2302.03   Agriculture on a Lot that is one (1) acre in size or less and/or
which is not exempted from zoning by the ORC shall still comply with all
applicable provisions within Section
2302, any other standards or prohibitions within this Resolution, and the
following:
   A)   Building s housing animals and/or fowl as pets or for domestic use,
excluding swine and goats, shall be set back fifty (50) or more feet from any
Lot Line . Building s housing swine and goats as pets or for domestic use shall
be set back at least two hundred (200) feet from any Lot Line . These
restrictions shall not be construed to apply to individual pens, pastures, or
fields of less than five (5) acres if part of a larger portion of land devoted
to such Use .
   B)   No animal being kept for agricultural purposes and weighing more than
one hundred and fifty (150) pounds shall be permitted.
   C)   Agritourism and Farm Market s shall comply with all provisions of the
Zoning District in which it is located, including, but not necessarily limited
to: Setback s, Lot Coverage , dimensional requirements, Sign s, district
standards, Floor Area requirements, access, parking, Landscaping , and
lighting, as well as Article
16, General Standards and Sections
2303 and
2304, respectively.
2302.04   When in conflict, the provisions of Section
1617, Dangerous Wild Animals, shall supersede Sections
2302.02 -
03.
Section 2303: Agritourism
2303.01   Pursuant to ORC 519.21(C)(4), as may be amended, Agritourism is
permitted in any Zoning District but is subject to the following regulations.
Agritourism regulations do not apply to Farm Market s where fifty percent (50%)
or more of the gross income received from the market is derived from produce
raised on farms owned or operated by the market operator in a normal crop year.
Though no Zoning Permit is required for such Use or any associated
improvements, certain standards are necessary to protect public health, safety,
and general welfare. As such, the following shall apply:
   A)   All Building s and Structure s utilized primarily for Agritourism shall
adhere to the minimum Front , Side , and Rear Yard requirements established for
the Zoning District in which it is located.
   B)   All Building s and Structure s utilized primarily for Agritourism shall
not exceed thirty-five (35) feet in Height .
   C)   All Building s and Structure s utilized primarily for Agritourism shall
not exceed the maximum Lot Coverage requirements established for the Zoning
District in which it is located. Should no maximum Lot Coverage requirement be
established, the maximum size permitted for said Building or Structure shall be
one thousand four hundred (1,400) square feet.
   D)   All Building s and Structure s utilized primarily for Agritourism shall
conform to all applicable regulations established by the Delaware County
Department of Building Safety.
   E)   All parking demands created by this use shall be met off the Street .
   F)   Parking areas shall adhere to the following Setback requirements:
      1)   Fifty (50) feet from any Residential or Planned Residential Zoning
District .
      2)   Fifteen (15) feet from any Non-Residential Zoning District .
   G)   Safe and adequate ingress and egress must always be provided and
maintained.
   H)   Waste materials, solid or liquid, shall not be created on or imported
onto the premises at a level that creates a burden on adjoining property.
Permanent or temporary sanitary waste disposal shall be provided as regulated
by the Delaware Public Health District or Sanitary Engineer.
2303.02   Agritourism that is not exempted by the ORC shall still comply with
all applicable provisions within Section
2303, as well as any other standards or prohibitions within this Resolution.
Section 2304: Farm Markets
2304.01   Farm Market s that derive at least fifty percent (50%) of their gross
income from produce raised on Farms owned or operated by the Farm Market
operator in a normal crop year are permitted in any Zoning District , subject
to the following regulations:
   A)   Temporary and seasonal Building s tents, trailers, and other Structure
s associated with a seasonal and temporary Farm Market shall be placed outside
of the road  Right-of-Way and located at least twenty-five (25) feet from the
edge of any road pavement to safely allow for adequate ingress and egress and
for customer Off-Street Park . Seasonal and temporary Farm Market s may use
marked grass areas reasonably cleared and limited in size for parking. In no
case shall any portion of any road pavement be used for or considered customer
parking to serve a Farm Market . If a culvert is required to obtain access to a
seasonal and temporary Farm Market , the Farm Market operator shall obtain a
driveway permit from the appropriate governmental agency. Temporary and
seasonal Farm Market s are Farm Market s that are open to the public and
operate no more than a total of ninety (90) calendar days in a calendar year.
Any temporary and seasonal Building s, tents, trailers, and other Structure s
associated with a Farm Market remaining for more than ninety (90) days in a
calendar year shall be considered Structure s associated with a permanent Farm
Market and shall comply with the provisions of Section
2403.01.B below.
   B)   All Building s and Structure s associated with a permanent Farm Market
shall meet the applicable Setback requirements for the underlying Zoning
District .
   C)   Parking for permanent Farm Market s shall be graveled or paved.
Operators of a permanent Farm Market shall obtain a driveway permit from the
appropriate governmental agency.
   D)   Off-Street Parking shall be provided at a ratio of one (1) space for
each one hundred (100) square feet of Farm Market .
   E)   Permanent Farm Market s are Farm Markets that are open to the public
and operate for more than ninety (90) calendar days in a calendar year.
   F)   Farm Market Signs shall comply with all the applicable provisions
within Article
18 of this Zoning Resolution.
   G)   Exterior lighting shall conform to the provisions of Article
21.
   H)   Noise Control:
      1)   Unless otherwise authorized as part of permitted Temporary Use ,
outdoor speakers shall be permitted for emergency announcements and crowd
control only; however, low-volume music for on-site patrons may be permissible
in accordance with any provisions of the applicable Zoning District .
      2)   On-site exterior video displays shall not emit audio that is audible
from property located within a Residential or Planned Residential Zoning
District under normal conditions by a reasonable person.
2304.02   Farm Market s that are not exempted by the ORC shall still comply
with all applicable provisions within Section
2304, as well as any other standards or prohibitions within this Resolution.
2304.03   Roadside Stands shall be subject to all applicable provisions
established for Temporary Use s and Structure s within Article
24 of this Zoning Resolution.
ARTICLE 24: Temporary Use s and Structure s
Section 2401: Introduction
2401.01   Intent and Purpose. Because of the special characteristics and needs
of Temporary Use s, Temporary Structure s, and the like, it is the intent and
purpose of this Article to establish reasonable and uniquely tailored standards
applicable to all unincorporated areas of Genoa Township to secure and protect
the public health, safety, and general welfare of the community.
Section 2402: General Requirements
2402.01   An application for a Temporary Use permit shall be filed at least
sixty (60) days prior to the commencement of the proposed Temporary Use . No
Temporary Use shall commence until a Temporary Use permit has been issued by
the Township Zoning Inspector or their designee.
2402.02   Temporary Use Permit. Each application for a Temporary Use permit
shall contain a graphic of the property to be utilized, a description of the
proposed use, and a site plan in triplicate, drawn to scale, which illustrates
the following:
   A)   The actual dimensions of the Lot , including easements.
   B)   The exact size, location, and Height of all existing and proposed
Building s and Structure s, whether principal or accessory, on the Lot .
   C)   The existing and intended Use of all parts of the land and Building s
and Structure s, whether principal or accessory, and all details of the event,
including the location of activities that will be conducted as part of the
event.
   D)   Existing zoning on the Lot in question and on all adjacent Lots .
   E)   Existing and/or proposed parking spaces, including Off-Street Parking ,
traffic flow, access drives, Building and parking Setback s, sanitary
facilities, refuse control, security, traffic control, noise, and lighting.
   F)   Existing and proposed Sign s, location, and size detail.
   G)   Such other information as may be required by the Zoning Inspector
regarding the Temporary Use , Lot , and neighboring Lots as may be necessary to
determine and provide for the enforcement of this Zoning Resolution.
2402.03   Fees. When making an application for a Temporary Use permit, the
application fees shall be paid in accordance with the Schedule of Fees as may,
from time to time, be adopted by the Township Trustees .
2402.04   Issuance of Permits. Temporary Use permits shall be issued, or
refusal thereof given, within thirty (30) days of the completed application and
fee. Written notice of such refusal and the reason thereof shall be given to
the applicant.
Section 2403: Temporary Use s
2403.01   Temporary Public Events. Temporary public events sponsored by a
public or non-profit organization may be permitted within any Non-Residential
Zoning District or upon a Religious Establishment , school, or other similar
sites primarily utilized for congregating or gathering within a Planned
Residential or Residential Zoning District . The applicant shall, prior to
applying for a Temporary Use permit, engage in consultations with staff from
applicable governmental agencies, including the Genoa Township Zoning
Inspector, Genoa Township Fire Department, Genoa Township Police Department,
Delaware County Department of Building Safety, Delaware County Public Health
District, Delaware County Engineer, and any other such agency or department to
discuss and review the potential impacts of the event on the community. No
statement or action by Township or County Officials during these consultations
shall be construed to be a waiver of any legal obligation of the applicant or
of any procedure or formal approval required by Township, County, or State
statutes or rules. When planning such an event, the applicant shall take into
consideration the potential impacts on surrounding properties. In order to
address the impact of the event on the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the community, temporary public events shall meet the following
requirements:
   A)   Adequate Off-Street Parking , including on-site and off-site (if
applicable) shall be provided. A parking plan shall be provided, delineating
proposed parking areas. Parking shall be provided to accommodate the number of
anticipated guests on any given day of an event.
   B)   All temporary Building s and Structure s associated with the event
shall meet all applicable construction codes, including but not limited to,
building, electrical, fire, Mechanical , and plumbing. Inspections and
approvals shall be obtained from Delaware County Department of Building Safety,
the Genoa Township Fire Department, and any other agencies having jurisdiction.
   C)   Adequate traffic control shall be provided. A traffic control plan
shall be approved by the Genoa Township Police Department, Genoa Township Fire
Department, and the Delaware County Engineer.
   D)   Adequate sanitary facilities and refuse control shall be provided. The
sanitary and refuse plan shall delineate the number and location of such
facilities and provisions for the removal of such. Sanitary facilities shall
accommodate the number of anticipated guests on any given day of an event.
Waste removal time restrictions shall be discussed during the pre-application
consultation with the Township and be included as part of the application.
   E)   Adequate lighting, including security lighting, shall be provided. A
lighting plan shall be provided, delineating the location of all current and
proposed lighting. All lighting shall be directed inward and away from any
abutting Planned Residential or Residential Zoning Districts and/or Dwelling s.
Except for security lighting, all lighting shall be turned off no later than
one (1) hour after the event closes.
   F)   Adequate security, fire, and emergency medical services shall be
provided. A security plan shall be provided and approved by the Genoa Township
Fire Department and the Genoa Township Police Department. Security shall be
provided twenty-four (24) hours a day during both operational and non-
operational hours of the event.
   G)   Operational hours of an event shall be limited to 9:00 a.m. to 11:00
p.m. Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to midnight on Saturdays, 10:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   H)   Adequate noise control shall be provided. A noise control plan shall be
provided showing the location of all amplification and noise-generating
devices. All amplification and noise-generating devices shall be placed inward
and away from any abutting Zoning District and/or Dwelling s. Prior to applying
for a Temporary Use permit, an applicant may request to obtain an exemption
from the Township Trustees from the provisions of any applicable noise control
resolutions. Otherwise, all events shall comply with the provisions of said
resolutions.
   I)   A signage plan shall be provided. All Sign s shall conform to the
standards and provisions of Article
18.
   J)   An applicant shall be required to obtain any business license or any
other permit that may be required by any other federal, state, or local
statute, rule, or regulation.
   K)   Temporary public events shall be limited to not more than four (4)
consecutive operational days, and no more than one (1) such event may be
conducted in any one (1) calendar year by the same organization or any related
business, entity, or affiliate organized for the same or similar purpose.
   L)   The event organizer must have a policy or policies of general liability
insurance in the State of Ohio providing coverage for personal injury and
property damage. This shall be in the amount, not less than $1,000,000 for each
person or occurrence and $2,000,000 in aggregate for personal injuries or death
or property damage suffered by any person or persons arising out of the
temporary event. A certificate of insurance shall be included as part of the
application.
2403.02   Temporary Use s permitted in this Section do not include outdoor,
stand-alone performances or organized events for performances only, but do
include performances in conjunction with the temporary public event. The
following are exempt from the provisions of this Section:
   A)   Ceremonies, government-sponsored events, holiday displays, homeowner
association-sponsored events, religious practices, peaceful assemblies, and
school-related activities, (e.g., competitions, recitals, sporting events,
etc.).
   B)   Events held entirely within the confines of a fully enclosed Building .
   C)   Small temporary sales/fundraising events conducted on premise by public
schools or Religious Establishment s are exempt from the provisions of this
Section. Such small temporary sales/fundraising events include, but are not
limited to, bake sales, bazaars, car washes, carnivals, fairs, fish fries,
flower sales, spaghetti dinners, and the like.
2403.03   Private Garage Sales, yard sales, estate sales, and other such events
that are time-specific and time-limited, occurring on an infrequent basis, and
for non-commercial (i.e., business) purposes, shall be permitted on a
residential property without a Zoning Permit so long as they do not constitute
a Home Occupation or Retail  Use and so long as they do not pose a threat to
public health, safety, or general welfare. Such sales on residential properties
exceeding the limited provisions of this standard shall otherwise be
prohibited.
2403.04   Outdoor Display of items for sale on residential properties, not
otherwise regulated by
2403.03 or
2403.05, shall be limited to no more than seven (7) days per calendar year,
regardless of the item(s) being sold. The storage or display of such items
within a required Front Yard , or in the case of a legally Non-conforming
Building , Building Line , shall be prohibited at all times
2403.05   Agritourism and Farm Market s shall further be regulated by Sections
2303 and
2304, respectively.
2403.06   Prohibited Temporary Use s. Temporary Retail sales conducted on
parking lots, vacant Lots , or along roadsides by transient vendors and not
otherwise qualifying as Mobile Enterprise , Mobile Service Business , or Mobile
Vending Business , shall be prohibited unless conducted pursuant to a valid
permit issued by the Township under ORC 505.94, as may be amended.
Section 2404: Temporary Structure s
2404.01   Temporary Real Estate Offices. Temporary real estate Offices,
including model homes, may be permitted within any District for any new
subdivision, provided sales activities are limited to that subdivision only and
such office is not used as a Dwelling . Unless otherwise provided for as part
of a planned District, Sign s shall comply with Article
18. Any Temporary Use permit issued for a temporary real estate office
conducted out of a trailer under this Section is valid for one (1) year and
must be renewed annually. Such office use shall cease upon completion of the
sales of Lots within the subdivision. Rental or resale of Lots /and or units in
the subdivision shall not be conducted from the temporary office.
   A)   Parking: Temporary real estate offices shall provide Off-Street paved
Parking Spaces for the public. Such Off-Street paved parking shall be located
Contiguous to the model home. The parking lot shall be removed upon expiration
of the permit for the model home. The number of required parking spaces shall
be six (6) per model home. The driveway of the model home may be utilized for
not more than two (2) of the required parking spaces.
   B)   Setback s: Such Use shall adhere to the applicable Principal Building
 Setback s established for the Zoning District in which the Use is located.
   C)   The maximum permitted Height of a Temporary Structure shall be the
maximum Principal Building  Height established for the Zoning District in which
it is located, subject to Section
1616 of this Article.
   D)   Screening and Waste Receptacles: Landscape drawings shall be required
and shall show adequate Landscaping and screening from adjoining residential
Lots , together with the clear marking of the boundaries of the model home Lot
. Waste receptacles shall be provided around the model home for use by the
public.
2404.02   Temporary Contractor’s Offices. Temporary contractor’s Offices
including construction trailers (both licensed and unlicensed), for operations
incidental to construction work on the property, may be erected in any of the
Zoning Districts herein established; however, such temporary Building or
trailer shall be removed within sixty (60) days following the completion or
abandonment of the construction work. Abandonment shall be presumed if no
substantial work toward completion has occurred within ninety (90) consecutive
days. Temporary Building s, Accessory Buildings , construction trailers, Barns,
tents, recreational vehicles, campers, etc., are not to be used as temporary or
permanent Dwelling s.
2404.03   Roadside Stands meeting the definition of a Temporary Structure shall
be permitted on any residential property so long as they comply with the
following:
   A)   Roadside Stands shall not be placed within, or project into, a Right-
of-Way nor shall they be placed in a manner which wholly or partially blocks a
Pedestrianway , traffic signage, or Sight Distance as further regulated by
Section
1615 herein.
   B)   Roadside Stands shall not be placed in a location that promotes the
parking of vehicles in a hazardous or unlawful manner.
   C)   The maximum permitted width of a Roadside Stand shall be five (5) feet.
   D)   The maximum permitted depth of a Roadside Stand shall be five (5) feet.
   E)   The maximum permitted Height of a Roadside Stand shall be eight (8)
feet.
   F)   The items being sold on a Roadside Stand shall be limited to
agricultural products.
   G)   Utilization of trailers, vehicles, equipment of any type, or pallets as
Roadside Stands shall be prohibited.
   H)   Signage on Roadside Stands shall be subject to Article
18.
   I)   Lighting of Roadside Stands shall comply with lighting standards
applicable to the Zoning District in which it is located.
   J)   All Roadside Stands shall be maintained in good physical and structural
condition, free of Deterioration, decomposition, rust, or decay.
Section 2405: Portable Storage Unit s
2405.01   Portable Storage Unit s may be permitted as a Temporary Use in any
Zoning District in conjunction with, and not to exceed the times listed for,
the following activities:
   A)   Temporary Use for construction sites as an accessory to and in
association with an ongoing construction project for an unoccupied Building or
Structure at such site for a period of up to one hundred twenty (120) total
days in any three hundred sixty-five (365) consecutive day period or upon the
completion of the project, whichever occurs first.
   B)   Temporary Use , including open-top dumpsters, when the occupant of the
property on which the Portable Storage Unit is located is relocating, for a
period not to exceed seven (7) consecutive days or for a period of fourteen
(14) total days in any one hundred eighty (180) consecutive day period.
   C)   Temporary Use to facilitate temporary activities not described in
Sections
2405.01.A or
2405.01.B, above, for a period not to exceed seven (7) consecutive days or for
a period of fourteen (14) total days in any one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive day period.
2405.02   Portable Storage Unit s shall be subject to the following
requirements:
   A)   A Portable Storage Unit shall not exceed one hundred sixty-nine (169)
square feet in size and eight (8) feet in Height .
   B)   Not more than one (1) Portable Storage Unit shall be permitted on any
property at any time.
   C)   No Portable Storage Unit shall be located in a public Right-of-Way .
   D)   Portable Storage Unit s shall be located no closer to an adjacent
property than the greater of ten (10) feet or the required minimum Side or Rear
Yard  setback for Accessory Buildings in the District in which the unit is
located, unless placed upon an existing driveway, in which case there shall be
no required Side or Rear Yard  Setback .
   E)   Portable Storage Unit s shall only be used for the storage of personal
property and for no other purpose whatsoever.
   F)   The placement of Portable Storage Unit s shall be in such manner as not
to create a public Nuisance .
   G)   A Portable Storage Unit is not permitted as a permanent Accessory
Structure for storage, or Dwelling , regardless of the proposed location on a
property.
   H)   A Temporary Use permit shall be obtained prior to the placement of a
Portable Storage Unit on a property. For the activities listed in Sections
2405.01.A and 2405.01.B, above, no more than two (2) Temporary Use permits may
be issued for the same property during any three hundred sixty-five (365)
consecutive day period.
ARTICLE 25: Non-Conformities
Section 2501: Introduction
2501.01   Intent and Purpose. Within the Districts established by this
Resolution or amendments that may later be adopted, there exist Lots ,
Structure s, or Use s of land and Structure s that were lawful before this
Resolution was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited or more
restricted under the terms of this Resolution or amendments thereto. It is the
intent and purpose of this Resolution via this Article to permit these non-
conformities to continue until they are removed pursuant to ORC 519.19 as may
be amended.
Section 2502: Non-conforming Lot s
2502.01   Any permitted Use by right in a given Zoning District may be erected
or established on any single Lot of official record at the effective date of
adoption of this amendment. This provision shall apply even if such Lot fails
to meet the requirements for Lot Area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the District. Yard dimensions and requirements other than those
applying to area or width, or both, of the Lot shall conform to the regulations
for the District in which such Lot is located. Variance of yard requirements
from the required standards shall be obtained only through the action of the
Board of Zoning Appeals .
Section 2503: Non-conforming Use s of Land
2503.01   Where, at the time of adoption or amendment of this Resolution,
lawful Use s of land exist which would not be permitted by the regulations
imposed by this Resolution, the Use s may be continued so long as they remain
otherwise lawful, subject to the provisions of this Section.
2503.02   No such non-conforming non-residential Use s shall be enlarged or
increased or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this Resolution.
2503.03   Any Non-conforming Use may be extended throughout any parts of a
Building , which were manifestly arranged or designed for such Use at the time
of adoption of the amendment of this Resolution.
2503.04   No such Non-conforming Use s shall be moved in whole or in part to
any portion of the Lot other than that occupied by such Use s at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this Resolution unless it increases conformity
with these regulations.
2503.05   If any such Non-conforming Use s of land are voluntarily discontinued
for a period of more than two (2) years, any subsequent Use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this Resolution for the District in
which such land is located.
2503.06   Additional Structure s not conforming to the requirements of this
Resolution shall not be erected in connection with such Non-conforming Use of
land.
2503.07   Nothing contained in this Section shall in any way prohibit a Non-
conforming Use from acquiring additional Off-Street Parking Space.
2503.08   No non-conforming Accessory Use shall continue after the Principal
Use to which it is necessary has been discontinued.
Section 2504: Non-conforming Structure s
2504.01   Where a lawful Structure exists at the effective date of adoption of
this Resolution that could not be built under the terms of this Resolution by
reason of restrictions on area, Height , Yards, its location on the Lot , or
other requirements concerning the Structure , such Structure may be continued
so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to provisions of this Section.
2504.02   No such Non-conforming Structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
that increases its non-conformity, but any Structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its non-conformity.
2504.03   Should a residential Non-conforming Structure be destroyed, either
partially or totally, by any means the Structure or portion of the Structure
may be reconstructed to the same size or larger Floor Area provided other
applicable provisions of this Resolution are met.
2504.04   Should a non-residential Non-conforming Structure be destroyed,
either partially or totally, by any means the Structure or portion of the
Structure may be reconstructed, provided the bulk, Height , and Floor Area
shall not exceed those which existed prior to said damage.
2504.05   Should such Structure be moved for any reason for any distance, it
shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the Zoning District in which it
is located after it is moved.
2504.06   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Resolution shall be deemed
to require a change in the plans, construction , or designated Use of any
Building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this Resolution and upon which actual building
construction has been carried on diligently.
2504.07   When a Non-conforming Use of a Structure , or Structure and premises
in combination, is voluntarily discontinued or abandoned for more than two (2)
years, the Structure or Structure and premises in combination shall not
thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the District in
which it is located and all other applicable provisions of this Resolution.
2504.08   Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to prevent ordinary
maintenance and repairs on walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing or the
restoration to a safe condition of any Building or other Structure in
accordance with the order of a public official who is charged with protecting
the public safety and who declares such Building or other Structure to be
unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe condition.
Section 2505: Incompatibilities of Non-Conformities
2505.01   Non-conformities are declared by this Ordinance to be incompatible
with permitted Use s in the districts in which such Use s are located. A Non-
conforming Use of a Structure , a Non-conforming Use of land, or a Non-
conforming Use of a Structure and land in combination shall not be extended or
enlarged after passage of this Ordinance by attachment on a Building or
premises of additional Sign s intended to be seen from off the premises, or by
the addition of other Use s of a nature which would be generally prohibited in
the District in which such Use is located.
Section 2506: Substitutions of Non-conforming Use s
2506.01   So long as no structural Alterations are made, except as required by
enforcement of other codes or ordinances, any Non-conforming Use may, upon
appeal to and approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals , be changed to another
Non-conforming Use of the same classification or of a less intensive
classification, or the Board shall find that the Use proposed for substitution
is equally appropriate to the District than the existing Non-conforming Use .
In permitting such change, the Board may require that additional conditions and
safeguards be met, which requirements shall pertain as stipulated conditions
shall be considered a punishable violation of this Ordinance. Whenever a Non-
conforming Use has been changed to a less intensive Use or becomes a conforming
Use , such Use shall thereafter not be changed to a more intensive use.
Section 2507: Certificates for Non-conforming Use s
2507.01   The Zoning Inspector may, upon their initiative, or shall, upon the
request of the owner, issue a certificate for any Lot , Structure , Use of
land, Use of Structure , or Use of land and Structure in combination, that
certifies that the Lot , Structure , or Use is a valid Non-conforming Use . The
certificate shall specify the reason why the Use is a Non-conforming Use ,
including a description of the extent and kind of Use made of the property in
question, the portion of the Structure or land used for the Non-conforming Use
, and the extent to which the dimensional requirements are non-conforming. The
purpose of this Section is to protect the owners of land or Structure s that
are or become non-conforming. No fee shall be charged for this certificate. One
(1) copy of the certificate shall be returned to the owner, and one copy shall
be retained by the Zoning Inspector, who shall maintain as a public record a
file of all such certificates.
ARTICLE 26: Amendments
Section 2601: Introduction
2601.01   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good
zoning practices require, the Township Trustees may, by resolution after
receipt of recommendations from the Zoning Commission , and subject to the
procedures provided by law, amend, supplement, change, or repeal the
regulations, restrictions, and District boundaries or classification of
property.
2601.02   This Article shall only apply to:
   A)   Amendments to the text within this Resolution; and
   B)   Amendments to the Zoning Map that seek to re-zone property (Rezoning )
to a Straight Zoning District .
2601.03   This Article shall not apply to Legal Approvals, including Zoning Map
Amendment s, pertaining to Planned Zoning Districts . Said approvals shall be
subject to the provisions of Article
27.
Section 2602: General Requirements
2602.01   All submissions shall be delivered to the Zoning Inspector or their
designee for administrative review, public advertisement, and distribution.
2602.02   The Zoning Commission and/or Township Trustees may adopt a pre-
determined and publicly available zoning application and meeting schedule to be
administered by the Zoning Inspector or their designee in order to establish
predictable dates for all parties and the public at large.
2602.03   The Chair of the Zoning Commission or the Chair of the Township
Trustees may each reject a submission to their respective entity if the
submission is found to be missing required components, further detailed herein;
otherwise known as being administratively incomplete. Should the Chair reject a
submission due to administrative incompleteness, written notification, via
certified letter or e-mail, shall be sent to the applicant of record within
five (5) days of receipt of the original submission. The decision to reject a
submission may be overruled by a majority vote of the remaining members of the
applicable entity. Such deliberation shall only be held upon request of the
applicant of the submission that was rejected and shall take place in a public
meeting.
2602.04   The Chair of the Zoning Commission or the Chair of the Township
Trustees each reserves the right to determine that an application to their
respective entity will be heard during a special meeting as opposed to a
regularly scheduled meeting, so long as said meeting is scheduled and
advertised in accordance with any applicable provisions of this Zoning
Resolution and ORC 519.12.
2602.05   The Chair of the Zoning Commission or the Chair of the Township
Trustees shall each determine the public hearing agendas for their respective
entities in accordance with any established bylaws for their group. Each
application shall be scheduled in the order in which it is received; however,
each Chair reserves the right to, at their discretion, revise said order.
2602.06   If an excessive number of applications are received for any given
meeting, as determined by the Chair of the entity hearing the application, said
Chair reserves the right to postpone the hearing of an application for their
respective entity so long as the postponed meeting is scheduled and advertised
in accordance with any applicable provisions of this Zoning Resolution and ORC
519.12.
2602.07   Due process rights guaranteed to an applicant by this Zoning
Resolution, ORC 519.12, and/or any other applicable law or provision may be
waived by the applicant via written consent delivered to the Zoning Inspector,
or their designee.
   A)   Applicants may request a continuance of their application to a date,
time, and place certain at any point during the Township’s review process. Such
a request shall be submitted in writing at any time or made verbally during the
public hearing for said application. Applications continued to a date, time,
and place certain, do not have to be re-advertised in the newspaper as
otherwise specified herein. Similarly, notices do not have to be re-mailed to
neighboring property owners as otherwise specified herein.
   B)   Applicants may request a tabling of their application to an uncertain
date, time, and/or place at any time during the Township’s review process. Such
a request shall be submitted in writing at any time or made verbally during the
public hearing for said application. Applications that are tabled to an
uncertain date, time, and/or place shall be re-advertised in the newspaper in
accordance with the applicable provisions herein. Similarly, new notices shall
also be mailed to neighboring property owners in accordance with the applicable
provisions herein.
      1)   In order to un-table an application, a request to do so must be made
by the applicant and delivered to the Zoning Inspector.
      2)   A fee in accordance with an adopted fee schedule may be charged to
un-table an application.
      3)   The hearing for an un-tabled application may be scheduled in
accordance with a pre-determined zoning application and meeting schedule as
detailed in Section
2602.02.
      4)   An application shall be tabled for no longer than one (1) year,
measured from the date the motion to table the application was originally
passed. If an application is not un-tabled or withdrawn pursuant to the
provisions herein by the end of said year, the entity considering the
application (Zoning Commission or Township Trustees ) may un-table the
application at any time. Subsequently, at the next available and properly
noticed hearing date, said entity, in its discretion, may recommend denial or,
if permitted, deny said application.
   C)   Applicants wishing to withdraw their application shall submit their
request in writing to the Zoning Inspector. Upon receipt, the Zoning Inspector
or their designee shall inform the Zoning Commission and/or Township Trustees
that the application has been withdrawn. Refunding fees shall only be permitted
in accordance with a separate schedule of fees adopted by the Township Trustees
.
Section 2603: Initiation of Amendments
2603.01   Amendments specified in Section
2601.02 may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A)   By adoption of a motion by the Zoning Commission .
   B)   By adoption of a resolution by the Township Trustees .
   C)   By the filing of an application by at least one (1) owner of property
or their designee within the area proposed to be changed or affected by said
amendment.
Section 2604: Submission Requirements for Text Amendments
2604.01   Application –A fully completed, signed, and dated application which
shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
   A)   The affected and/or proposed section(s) of the Zoning Resolution;
   B)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of the applicant(s)
of record;
   C)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of any engineers,
architect(s), attorneys, and/or consultants of record, if any.
   D)   If the proposed amendment comprises of a Zoning Map Amendment , the
submission shall also include all applicable materials specified in Section
2605.01.
   E)   Any additional information which may be requested on the official
application form.
2604.02   Documentation:
   A)   A single document containing all proposed text revisions.
      1)   Said revisions shall be clearly identified and visually
distinguishable;
      2)   Said revisions shall be written and considered verbatim and shall
not be approximated, abbreviated, paraphrased, and/or implied; and
      3)   The document shall: provide a glossary identifying how each type of
revision is visually represented, dated, have its pages numbered, contain all
correct and pertinent article/section numbers, and be formatted consistently
with the existing Zoning Resolution.
   B)   Notes explaining and/or justifying the proposed revisions but not
intended to be adopted as part of the proposed amendment, may be incorporated
within the document, or submitted via a separate memorandum of explanation. Any
notes incorporated within the document shall be easily distinguishable from the
proposed revisions.
   C)   If the proposed amendment includes a Zoning Map Amendment , the
submission shall also include all applicable materials specified in Section
2605.02.
2604.03   Any additional materials that may be required by the Delaware County
Regional Planning Commission for their statutorily required review.
2604.04   Any other applicable documentation, studies, plans, and/or exhibits
necessary to demonstrate compliance, concepts, and/or address concerns related
to the request.
2604.05   One (1) optical disc, Universal Serial Bus (USB) flash drive, or
other similar type of readable storage device, containing the materials listed
in Sections
2604.01 –
2604.04 in Portable Document Format (.PDF) and/or another similar type of
widely-utilized, non-proprietary digital format approved by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee. A new digital copy will be required with each
submitted revision.
2604.06   A fee(s) as may be established by the Township Trustees in a fee
schedule.
2604.07   A response to comments letter shall be provided with each submitted
revision to identify and explain all the revisions made to the submission, and
to identify how any comments or concerns raised by staff, the Zoning Commission
, the Township Trustees , other agencies, and/or the general public have been
addressed.
2604.08   Number of Copies:
   A)   Ten (10) copies of the items listed herein, divided into sets, shall be
provided when the proposal is submitted to the Zoning Commission for review
unless otherwise noted.
   B)   Six (6) copies of the items listed herein, divided into sets, shall be
provided when the proposal is submitted to the Township Trustees for their
consideration unless otherwise noted.
   C)   The Zoning Inspector, or their designee, is authorized to revise the
number of required copies as necessary for administrative purposes.
Section 2605: Submission Requirements for Map Amendments – Straight Zoning
Districts
2605.01   Application –A fully completed, signed, and dated application, which
shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
   A)   The address(es) and Parcel Identification Number (s) (PIN) of the
affected Lot (s);
   B)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of the property owner
(s) of record, as listed on the tax list of the Delaware County Auditor at the
time of submission;
   C)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of the applicant(s)
of record, if different than that of the property owner;
   D)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of any engineers,
architect(s), attorneys, and/or consultants of record, if any.
   E)   Exact, total acreage of the Lot (s);
   F)   The present Use (s) of the subject Lot (s);
   G)   The present Zoning District (s) comprising the subject Lot (s);
   H)   Proposed Zoning District (s) for the subject Lot (s);
   I)   Any additional information that may be requested on the official
application form.
2605.02   Documentation:
   A)   A legal description of the Lot (s);
   B)   A complete list of all Parcel Identification Number (s) (PIN);
   C)   A drawn to-scale Vicinity Map with a north arrow, on a sheet of paper
no larger than 11” x 17”, illustrating the size and location of the proposed
Rezoning , existing Lot Lines , acreage, Parcel Identification Number (s)
(PIN), existing streets, existing Structure s and Sign s on or within five
hundred (500) feet of the property’s boundary, existing Zoning District
classifications and boundaries, and other such items;
   D)   If the applicant is not the current property owner of record, a letter
from the property owner(s) authorizing the applicant to submit the subject
application on their behalf and/or proof that the applicant has a legal
interest in the property in the form of an executed sales agreement, option,
transfer, or other similar type of legal instrument.
   E)   A list of all property owners within five hundred (500) feet of,
Contiguous to, and directly across the street from the Lot (s), and others that
may have a legitimate, legal interest in the case, as they appear on the tax
list of the Delaware County Auditor at the time of submission.
      1)   The applicant shall provide one (1) set of pre-addressed, stamped
business-size envelopes with postage sufficient to send a notice via first-
class mail for each property owner listed.
      2)   A second set of envelopes shall be provided for the Township
Trustees ’ hearing once the Zoning Commission has voted on their
recommendation.
2605.03   Any additional materials that may be required by the Delaware County
Regional Planning Commission for their statutorily required review.
2605.04   Any other applicable documentation, studies, plans, and/or exhibits
necessary to demonstrate compliance, concepts, and/or address concerns related
to the request.
2605.05   One (1) optical disc, Universal Serial Bus (USB) flash drive, or
other similar type of readable storage device, containing the materials listed
in Sections
2605.01 –
2605.04 in Portable Document Format (.PDF) and/or another similar type of
widely-utilized, non-proprietary digital format approved by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee. A new digital copy will be required with each
submitted revision.
2605.06   A fee(s) as may be established by the Township Trustees in a fee
schedule.
2605.07   A response to comments letter shall be provided with each submitted
revision to identify and explain all the revisions made to the submission, and
to identify how any comments or concerns raised by staff, the Zoning Commission
, the Township Trustees , other agencies, and/or the general public have been
addressed.
2605.08   Number of Copies:
   A)   Ten (10) copies of the items listed herein, divided into sets, shall be
provided when the proposal is submitted to the Zoning Commission for review
unless otherwise noted.
   B)   Six (6) copies of the items listed herein, divided into sets, shall be
provided when the proposal is submitted to the Township Trustees for their
consideration unless otherwise noted.
   C)   The Zoning Inspector, or their designee, is authorized to revise the
number of required copies as necessary for administrative purposes.
Section 2606: Procedure for Amendments
2606.01   In addition to any other procedures set out in this Resolution, all
applications for amendments specified within Section
2601.02 shall follow the procedures herein and ORC 519.12, as may be amended.
2606.02   Within five (5) days after initiation pursuant to Section
2603, the Zoning Inspector or their designee shall transmit a copy of the
amendment and all associated materials to the Delaware County Regional Planning
Commission for review as required by statute. The Delaware County Regional
Planning Commission shall recommend the approval, denial, or modification of
the amendment to the Zoning Commission . Such a recommendation shall be
presented during the public hearing held by the Zoning Commission .
2606.03   In the event that a proposed amendment significantly affects, and/or
is located adjacent to, another political jurisdiction, an additional copy of
the amendment shall be provided and forwarded to the Chair of the planning
commission or the zoning commission of that jurisdiction. Any comments provided
by the adjoining jurisdiction shall be presented during the public hearing of
the Zoning Commission .
2606.04   Pursuant to ORC 5511.01, before any amendment is approved affecting
any land within three hundred (300) feet of the centerline of a proposed new
highway or highway for which changes are proposed as described in the
certification to local officials by the Director of the Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT), or any land within a radius of five hundred (500) feet
from the point of intersection of said centerline with any public road or
highway, the Zoning Inspector or their designee shall give notice, by
registered mail to the Director of ODOT . The Zoning Commission may proceed as
required by law; however, the Township Trustees shall not approve the amendment
for one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the notice is received by the
Director of ODOT .
   A)   If the Director of ODOT notifies the Township Trustees that they shall
proceed to acquire any land needed, the Township Trustees may continue the
application, in accordance with the provisions herein, until the acquisition
has occurred, or may deny the application.
   B)   If the Director of ODOT notifies the Township Trustees that acquisition
at this time is not in the public interest or upon expiration of the one
hundred twenty (120) day period or any extension thereof agreed upon by the
Director of ODOT and the property owner, the Township Trustees shall proceed as
required by law.
2606.05   The Zoning Commission shall schedule a public hearing upon initiation
of an amendment in accordance with Section
2603. Said hearing shall not be less than twenty (20) nor, unless permitted by
the initiator/applicant, more than forty (40) days from the filing of such
application.
2606.06   Before the required public hearing, notice shall be given by the
Zoning Inspector or their designee by any means authorized by the ORC . This
notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing, the nature of
the amendment, and a statement that after the conclusion of such public
hearing, the matter will be referred to the Township Trustees for final
consideration.
2606.07   If the proposed amendment intends to Rezone or redistrict ten (10) or
fewer parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written notice of the
hearing shall be mailed by the Zoning Inspector or their designee by first
class mail using pre-addressed, business-size envelopes provided by the
initiator/applicant at least ten (10) days before the date of the public
hearing to all owners of property within five hundred (500) feet of, Contiguous
to, and directly across the Street from such area proposed to be Rezoned or
redistricted, to the address of such owners appearing on the County Auditor’s
current tax list. The failure to deliver the notice, as provided in this
Section, shall not invalidate any amendment. This notice shall set forth the
time and place of the public hearing, the nature of the amendment, and a
statement that after the conclusion of such public hearing, the matter will be
referred to the Township Trustees for final consideration.
2606.08   The Zoning Commission may continue a public hearing to a future
meeting with the consent of the initiator/applicant. If said hearing is
continued to a date, time, and place certain, re-advertisement of the hearing
is not required; otherwise, once a new meeting date, time, and place is
determined, advertisement shall occur again in accordance with Sections
2606.06 and
2606.07.
2606.09   Revisions and/or supplemental materials shall be due on a date and
time determined by the Zoning Commission and/or in accordance with a pre-
determined schedule as authorized in Section
2602.02.
2606.10   Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Zoning Commission shall:
   A)   Vote, based upon findings of fact, to recommend approval or denial of
the amendment, and subsequently submit said recommendation together with the
application and all associated materials to the Township Trustees for their
consideration.
   B)   Be allowed to take more than thirty (30) days to make their
recommendations with the initiator’s/applicant’s consent.
2606.11   Following the recommendation(s) of the Zoning Commission , the Zoning
Inspector, or their designee, shall forward the Commission’s recommendation(s)
and reasons for said recommendation(s) to the Township Trustees .
2606.12   The Township Trustees shall acknowledge receipt of the Zoning
Commission’s recommendation(s) via resolution, and shall schedule a public
hearing date for the application, at the first regularly scheduled Township
Trustee meeting to occur following the Zoning Commission’s vote unless: said
meeting is canceled, a special meeting is scheduled within the required thirty
(30) day timeframe by the Township Trustees , or the initiator/applicant
requests and is granted otherwise a continuance by the Township Trustees , in
which case such action shall take place at the next subsequent regular or
special meeting of the Township Trustees. Unless otherwise authorized on the
record by the initiator/applicant, the date of said hearing shall be not more
than thirty (30) days from the Township Trustees ’ receipt and acknowledgment
of the recommendation from the Zoning Commission .
2606.13   Notice of the required public hearing shall be given by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee by any means authorized by the ORC . Said notice
shall be published at least ten (10) days before the date of the required
hearing. This notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing
and the nature of the application.
2606.14   If the proposed amendment intends to Rezone or redistrict ten (10) or
fewer parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written notice of the
hearing shall be mailed by the Zoning Inspector or their designee, by first
class mail using pre-addressed, business-size envelopes provided by the
initiator/applicant at least ten (10) days before the date of the public
hearing to all owners of property within five hundred (500) feet of, Contiguous
to, and directly across the Street from such area proposed to be Rezoned or
redistricted to the address of such owners appearing on the County Auditor’s
current tax list or lists that may be specified by the Township Trustees . The
failure to deliver the notice, as provided in this Section, shall not
invalidate any amendment. This notice shall set forth the time and place of the
public hearing and the nature of the amendment.
2606.15   The Township Trustees may continue a public hearing to a future
meeting with the consent of the initiator/applicant. If said hearing is
continued to a date, time, and place certain, re-advertisement of the hearing
is not required; otherwise, once a new meeting date, time, and place is
determined, advertisement shall occur again in accordance with Sections
2606.13 and
2606.14.
2606.16   Revisions and/or supplemental materials shall be due on a date and
time determined by the Township Trustees and/or in accordance with a pre-
determined schedule as authorized in Section
2602.02.
2606.17   Within twenty (20) days of the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Township Trustees shall:
   A)   Vote, based upon the findings of fact, to approve, approve with
modifications, or deny the amendment. The said vote is subject to referendum
pursuant to ORC 3519.01, as may be amended.
   B)   Be allowed to take more than twenty (20) days to render their decisions
with the initiator’s/applicant’s consent.
2606.18   An amendment adopted by the Township Trustees shall become effective
thirty (30) days after the date of such adoption unless, within thirty (30)
days after the adoption of said amendment, there is presented to the Township
Trustees a referendum petition, in accordance with ORC 3519.01, requesting the
Township Trustees submit said amendment to the electors of such area, for
approval or rejection, at the next primary or general election.
2606.19   No amendment for which such a referendum vote has been requested
shall be put into effect unless a majority of the votes cast on the issue are
in favor of said amendment. Upon certification by the Board of Elections that
the amendment has been approved by the voters, it shall take immediate effect.
2606.20   An amendment, upon becoming effective, shall be permanent unless a
subsequent amendment is initiated and approved in accordance with the terms of
this Zoning Resolution and ORC 519.12. Under no circumstances shall an approved
and effective amendment be required to seek renewal or re-approval.
2606.21   Once an amendment has become effective, the Zoning Inspector or their
designee shall update the Genoa Township Zoning Resolution and/or Zoning Map
accordingly.
ARTICLE 27: Planned Development Administration and Procedures
Section 2701: General Requirements
2701.01   Unless otherwise specified within this Zoning Resolution, Planned
Development s shall require a two-step zoning review process. Each step shall
be considered independent from one another and shall not run concurrently
unless otherwise provided for herein.
   A)   The first step shall consist of the filing of a Zoning Map Amendment
application to re-zone a Tract to the desired Planned Development District in
accordance with Sections
2702,
2703, and
2704 of this Zoning Resolution, as well as ORC 519.12, as may be amended. Said
application shall also include a Preliminary Development Plan .
   B)   The second step shall consist of the filing of a Final Development Plan
application in accordance with Sections
2705 and
2706 of this Zoning Resolution.
   C)   Revisions to an approved Final Development Plan may require approval of
a Final Development Plan Amendment in accordance with Sections
2710,
2711, and
2712 of this Zoning Resolution.
2701.02   All submissions shall be delivered to the Zoning Inspector or their
designee for administrative review, public advertisement, and distribution.
2701.03   The Zoning Commission and/or Township Trustees may adopt a pre-
determined and publicly available zoning application and meeting schedule to be
administered by the Zoning Inspector or their designee in order to establish
predictable dates for all parties and the public at large.
2701.04   The Chair of the Zoning Commission or the Chair of the Township
Trustees may each reject a submission to their respective entity if the
submission is found to be missing required components, further detailed herein;
otherwise known as being administratively incomplete. Should the Chair reject a
submission due to administrative incompleteness, written notification, via
certified letter or e-mail, shall be sent to the applicant of record within
five (5) days of receipt of the original submission. The decision to reject a
submission may be overruled by a majority vote of the remaining members of the
applicable entity. Such deliberation shall only be held upon request of the
applicant of the submission that was rejected and shall take place in a public
meeting.
2701.05   The Chair of the Zoning Commission or the Chair of the Township
Trustees each reserves the right to determine that an application to their
respective entity will be heard during a special meeting as opposed to a
regularly scheduled meeting so long as said meeting is scheduled and advertised
in accordance with any applicable provisions of this Zoning Resolution and ORC
519.12.
2701.06   The Chair of the Zoning Commission or the Chair of the Township
Trustees shall each determine the Planned Development public hearing agendas
for their respective entities in accordance with any established bylaws for
their group. Each application shall be scheduled in the order in which it is
received; however, each Chair reserves the right to, at their discretion,
revise said order.
2701.07   If an excessive number of applications are received for any given
meeting, as determined by the Chair of the group hearing the application, said
Chair reserves the right to postpone the hearing of an application for their
respective entity so long as the postponed meeting is scheduled and advertised
in accordance with any applicable provisions of this Zoning Resolution and ORC
519.12.
2701.08   Due process rights guaranteed to an applicant by this Zoning
Resolution, ORC 519.12, and/or any other applicable law or provision may be
waived by the applicant via written consent delivered to the Zoning Inspector,
or their designee.
   A)   Applicants may request a continuance of their application to a date,
time, and place certain at any point during the Township’s review process. Such
a request shall be submitted in writing at any time or made verbally during the
public hearing for said application. Applications continued to a date, time,
and place, certain do not have to be re-advertised in the newspaper as
otherwise specified herein. Similarly, notices do not have to be re-mailed to
neighboring property owners as otherwise specified herein.
   B)   Applicants may request a tabling of their application to an uncertain
date, time, and/or place at any time during the Township’s review process. Such
a request shall be submitted in writing at any time or made verbally during the
public hearing for said application. Applications that are tabled to an
uncertain date, time, and/or place shall be re-advertised in the newspaper in
accordance with the applicable provisions herein. Similarly, new notices shall
also be mailed to neighboring property owners in accordance with the applicable
provisions herein.
      1)   In order to un-table an application, a request to do so must be made
by the applicant and delivered to the Zoning Inspector.
      2)   A fee in accordance with an adopted fee schedule may be charged to
un-table an application.
      3)   The hearing for an un-tabled application may be scheduled in
accordance with a pre-determined zoning application and meeting schedule as
detailed in Section
2701.03.
      4)   An application shall be tabled for no longer than one (1) year,
measured from the date the motion to table the application was originally
passed. If an application is not un-tabled or withdrawn pursuant to the
provisions herein by the end of said year, the entity considering the
application (Zoning Commission or Township Trustees ) may un-table the
application at any time. Subsequently, at the next available and properly
noticed hearing date, said entity, in its discretion, may recommend denial or,
if permitted, deny said application.
   C)   Applicants wishing to withdraw their application shall submit their
request in writing to the Zoning Inspector. Upon receipt, the Zoning Inspector
or their designee shall inform the Zoning Commission and/or Township Trustees
that the application has been withdrawn. Refunding fees shall only be permitted
in accordance with a separate schedule of fees adopted by the Township Trustees
.
2701.09   Planned Development Review Standards. All Planned Development s shall
be reviewed based on the following general criteria. The applicable review body
shall consider such criteria in the creation of their specific findings of fact
when making recommendations or decisions regarding Planned Development
applications.
   A)   The proposal is consistent with the Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan ,
subject to Section
108.
   B)   The proposal is not known to be in conflict with any other applicable
land Use or infrastructure plans.
   C)   The proposed Use (s) is permitted in the Zoning District as set forth
in Article
5.
   D)   The proposal complies with all applicable standards of this Zoning
Resolution unless a Divergence has been requested pursuant to Section
2707.
   E)   Divergences have been reviewed and considered in accordance with
Section
2707.
   F)   The proposal is not known to pose a threat to public health or safety
as determined by a governmental agency at the local, county, state, or federal
level specializing in such, including the Genoa Township Fire Department, Genoa
Township Police Department, Delaware County Sheriff, Delaware County Engineer,
Delaware County Department of Building Safety, Delaware Soil and Water
Conservation District, Delaware Public Health District, Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency, Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Ohio Department of
Health, Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, and ODOT .
   G)   Adequate utilities (e.g., septic/sanitary sewer, water, electric,
natural gas, telecommunications) have been provided.
   H)   The applicant has sufficiently responded to, addressed, or documented
that they will address all substantive administrative review comments issued by
all reviewing agencies.
   I)   If the proposal is to revise a Final Development Plan (i.e., Final
Development Plan Amendment), such modifications have been reviewed and
considered in accordance with the provisions of Section
2710.
Section 2702: Pre-Application Process for Planned Residential Districts (PRD)
2702.01   The following sequence of actions herein prescribed shall be followed
solely when applying for a change in zoning to the Planned Residential District
(PRD) classification. These steps should be followed sequentially.
   A)   Pre-application Discussion. A pre-application discussion is required
between the potential applicant and administrative staff. The purpose of this
meeting is to introduce the applicant and their representatives to Township
policies, regulations, procedures, and conservation concepts, and to discuss
the potential applicant’s intentions. A representative of the Zoning Commission
may attend such a meeting; however, in no instance shall a quorum of the Zoning
Commission be present.
   B)   On-Site Walkabout. A potential applicant may request to walk a tract
with the Zoning Commission prior to applying for development plan approval so
that the Zoning Commission may familiarize itself with the property and so that
the potential applicant may be provided feedback as part of their planning
process.
      1)   Requests for an on-site walkabout shall be submitted to the Zoning
Inspector in writing. On-site walkabout requests and meetings shall be subject
to Section
2701.03.
      2)   The potential applicant is not required to provide any plans or
materials before or during the on-site walkabout. In order to maximize the
benefit of the meeting, potential applicants are encouraged to disclose their
desired concept to the greatest degree of specificity possible, as well as the
location of Primary and Secondary Conservation Areas on the Tract .
      3)   The Zoning Commission may provide non-binding comments and/or
concerns during the on-site walkabout.
      4)   The Zoning Commission shall not approve or pre-approve any potential
proposal, or component thereof, during the on-site walkabout.
      5)   The On-Site Walkabout shall be noticed in the same manner as a
special meeting, open to the public, and shall be documented in the form of
official minutes even if a quorum of the Zoning Commission is not present.
Section 2703: Zoning Map Amendment and Preliminary Development Plan Submission
Requirements
2703.01   Application –A fully completed, signed, and dated application which
shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
   A)   The address(es) and Parcel Identification Number (s) (PIN) of the
affected Lot (s) within the Tract ;
   B)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of the property owner
(s) of record, as listed on the tax list of the Delaware County Auditor at the
time of submission;
   C)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of the applicant(s)
of record, if different than that of the property owner;
   D)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of any engineers,
architect(s), attorneys, and/or consultants of record, if any.
   E)   Exact acreage of the Tract ;
   F)   The present Use (s) of the subject Tract ;
   G)   The present Zoning District (s) comprising the subject Tract ;
   H)   Proposed Use (s) for the subject Tract ;
   I)   Proposed Zoning District (s) for the subject Tract ;
   J)   Proposed unit count and Density of the Planned Development , if
applicable.
   K)   Any additional information which may be requested on the official
application form.
2703.02   Documentation and Studies:
   A)   A legal description of the Tract ;
   B)   A complete list of all Parcel Identification Number (s) (PIN) within
the Tract ;
   C)   A Vicinity Map , on a sheet of paper no larger than 11” x 17”,
illustrating the size and location of the proposed Planned Development ,
existing Lot Lines , acreage, Parcel Identification Number (s) (PIN), existing
streets, existing Structure s and Sign s on or within five hundred (500) feet
of the property’s boundary, existing Zoning District classifications and
boundaries, and other such items;
   D)   If the applicant is not the current property owner of record, a letter
from the property owner(s) authorizing the applicant to submit the subject
application on their behalf and/or proof that the applicant has a legal
interest in the property in the form of an executed sales agreement, option,
transfer, or other similar type of legal instrument.
   E)   Letters from public utility providers confirming the availability of
services;
   F)   A traffic study, analysis, or memo, as required by Delaware County,
examining the impact of the development on existing infrastructure,
modifications required to handle the increased traffic, and the mechanism(s)
proposed to complete the necessary improvements. Genoa Township reserves the
right to request a traffic study, analysis, or memo during its review of the
application, even if one is not required by Delaware County;
   G)   Any other materials proving that all other required permits, licenses,
or approvals issued by a non-Township entity have been obtained, if applicable.
   H)   A list of all property owners within five hundred (500) feet of,
Contiguous to, and directly across the street from, the Tract , and others that
may have a legitimate, legal interest in the case, as they appear on the tax
list of the Delaware County Auditor at the time of submission.
      1)   The applicant shall provide one (1) set of pre-addressed, stamped
business-size envelopes with postage sufficient to send a notice via first-
class mail for each property owner listed.
      2)   A second set of envelopes shall be provided for the Township
Trustees ’ hearing once the Zoning Commission has voted on their
recommendation.
2703.03   Zoning Map Amendment /Preliminary Development Plan Text – A written
document containing the following:
   A)   A narrative describing the proposed Zoning Map Amendment and Planned
Development , including all the information listed in Section
2703.01, as well as:
      1)   The relationship and compatibility of the proposed Planned
Development to existing and probable Use s of surrounding areas during the
development timetable;
      2)   The proposed, non-binding time schedule for the development of the
site, including Streets , Building s, utilities, and other facilities;
         a)   If the proposed timetable for development includes developing the
land in phases, all phases to be developed after the first shall be fully
described to provide township officials with guidelines for approval of future
phases.
   B)   A review of the requested Planned Development District requirements and
other applicable portions of the Zoning Resolution, including, but not
necessarily limited to: Article
16 (General Standards), Article
17 (Conditional and Special Use Standards), Article
18 (Sign Standards), Article
19 (Parking Standards), Article
20 (Landscaping Standards), and Article
21 (Lighting Standards); with detailed responses explaining how the proposal
complies with each standard;
   C)   Calculations demonstrating compliance with any required Density or Open
Space provisions for the Planned Development .
   D)   Limitations and controls that regulate the development, Use s, Open
Space management, and architecture. The text shall specify any controls that
are to be administered by a private organization;
   E)   A specific list of all Divergences being requested, if any. Said list
shall be itemized in numerical order and shall cite the specific section number
(s) of the Zoning Resolution from which relief is desired, the verbatim
requirement of said section, what is being proposed in lieu of said
requirement, and the applicant’s justification for said request, citing the
standards found within Section
2707;
   F)   A review of the Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan with a detailed
analysis of how the proposal adheres to the recommendations of said Plan.
Should the proposal deviate from, or be inconsistent with, the Plan, an
explanation as to why such a deviation is warranted shall be provided.
Deviations from the Comprehensive Plan shall not be considered Divergences as
defined within this Resolution and shall not be subject to the provisions of
Section
2707;
   G)   The following statement(s):
      1)   “This Preliminary Development Plan shall be subject to the
provisions of Section
2704.18 –
2704.23 of the Genoa Township Zoning Resolution, as may be amended.”
   H)   Any other pertinent information.
2703.04   Zoning Map Amendment /Preliminary Development Plan Drawings – The
Zoning Map Amendment /Preliminary Development Plan set of drawings shall
visually demonstrate compliance with the Zoning Resolution and shall include
the drawings listed below on both 11” x 17” (or smaller) and 24” x 36” sheets
of paper. All drawings shall include a north arrow. In addition, 24” x 36”
drawings shall be drawn to-scale with a scale for reference provided. Two or
more drawings may be combined into a single sheet so long as the features and
information on said drawings are legible and discernible from one another.
Phasing lines, if proposed, shall appear on each applicable drawing, all
regulated dimensions shall be labeled with measurements, and a legend shall be
provided identifying the meaning of any shapes, symbols, line types, colors,
etc. appearing on the drawing. The following shall be required as part of a
formal submittal:
   A)   An Existing Features Plan -drawing which illustrates the following
items within the Tract unless otherwise specified:
      1)   Tract boundaries and acreage;
      2)   Contours based upon the most recent U.S. Geological Survey;
      3)   Primary Conservation Area s and Secondary Conservation Areas;
      4)   Soil boundaries as shown on USDA Natural Resource Conservation
Service maps;
      5)   Streams, wetlands, and other similar types of natural water features
on the Tract or within five hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      6)   Schools, parks, and other community facilities on the Tract or
within five hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      7)   Historic and/or cultural features on the Tract or within five
hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      8)   Building s, Structure s, or Sign s on the Tract or within five
hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      9)   Thoroughfare s and/or rail tracks on the Tract or within five
hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      10)   Sidewalks, Multi-Use Paths , or Trails on the Tract or within five
hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      11)   Right-of-Ways and/or easements on the Tract or adjacent to the
Tract; and
      12)   An aerial photograph with USGS contours of the Tract and
immediately surrounding area.
   B)   A tree inventory plan-drawing identifying the locations, size, and type
of each existing tree, 3 inches or larger in caliper, on the Tract and whether
said tree will be preserved or removed as a result of the Planned Development ;
   C)   A grading plan-drawing illustrating conceptual grades, elevations, and
stormwater management facilities; pending approval by Delaware County;
   D)   A general site plan-drawing that clearly illustrates:
      1)   The boundaries and Frontage (s) of the Tract ;
      2)   Conceptual location, dimensions, and sizes of all proposed Lots .
      3)   All Setback s, buffers, and conservation areas;
      4)   The locations, dimensions, and, if applicable, intended Use s of all
proposed Building s, and/or Structure s;
      5)   The locations and dimensions of all proposed Sign s, parking lots,
pavement markings, landscape areas, Open Spaces, pedestrian/bicycle amenities,
stormwater management facilities, and other such site improvements;
      6)   Clearly illustrated and labeled phasing lines, if applicable; and
      7)   A table comparing applicable zoning requirements, including Density
, to those that are proposed.
         a)   Calculations supporting the data in the table shall be provided.
         b)   Phased developments shall contain a column for each phase as well
as for the development as a whole; and
      8)   A list of all requested Divergences.
   E)   A utility plan-drawing illustrating the preliminary locations of all
utilities and easements;
   F)   A lighting plan-drawing illustrating the preliminary locations of all
proposed light fixtures, both freestanding and those mounted to a Building ,
Structure , or Sign ;
   G)   A signage plan-drawing illustrating all potential Sign locations and
conceptual designs;
   H)   An Open Space plan-drawing clearly identifying all areas to be
designated as Common Open Space or Improved Common Open Space ;
   I)   A landscape plan-drawing illustrating the general locations of all
proposed plantings, buffers, and conservation areas;
   J)   A traffic control plan-drawing illustrating conceptual access points,
traffic patterns, and controls; pending approval by Delaware County;
   K)   A pedestrian/bicycle circulation plan-drawing illustrating any proposed
pedestrian/bicycle amenities, easements, and/or facilities, including:
Sidewalks, Multi-Use Paths , Trails, and the like; and
   L)   An architecture plan-drawing illustrating all conceptual building
designs.
2703.05   Any preliminary deed restrictions or covenants that may be part of
the proposal.
2703.06   Any additional materials that may be required by the Delaware County
Regional Planning Commission for their statutorily required review.
2703.07   Any other applicable documentation, studies, plans, and/or exhibits
necessary to demonstrate compliance, concepts, and/or to address concerns
related to the request.
2703.08   One (1) optical disc, Universal Serial Bus (USB) flash drive, or
other similar type of readable storage device, containing the materials listed
in Sections
2703.01 –
2703.07 in Portable Document Format (.PDF) and/or another similar type of
widely-utilized, non-proprietary digital format approved by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee. A new digital copy will be required with each
submitted revision.
2703.09   A fee(s) as may be established by the Township Trustees in a fee
schedule.
2703.10   A response to comments letter shall be provided with each submitted
revision to identify and explain all the revisions made to the submission, and
to identify how any comments or concerns raised by staff, the Zoning Commission
, the Township Trustees , other agencies, and/or the general public have been
addressed.
2703.11   Number of Copies:
   A)   Ten (10) copies of the items listed herein, divided into sets, shall be
provided when the proposal is submitted to the Zoning Commission for review
unless otherwise noted.
   B)   Six (6) copies of the items listed herein, divided into sets, shall be
provided when the proposal is submitted to the Township Trustees for their
consideration unless otherwise noted.
   C)   The Zoning Inspector, or their designee, is authorized to revise the
number of required copies, as necessary, for administrative purposes.
2703.12   The Township reserves the right to request additional information or
materials, as well as the right to request revisions of submittal materials for
the purposes of demonstrating compliance, correction, accuracy, transparency,
clarification, documentation, cross-referencing, administration, and/or
enforcement.
Section 2704: Zoning Map Amendment and Preliminary Development Plan Procedure
2704.01   In addition to any other procedures set out in this Resolution, all
applications for amendments to the Zoning Map to Rezone a Lot or Tract to a
Planned Development  Zoning District , including the Preliminary Development
Plan , shall follow the procedures herein and ORC 519.12, as may be amended.
2704.02   Within five (5) days after the filing of a complete application, by
at least one (1) owner or designee, the Zoning Inspector or their designee
shall transmit a copy of such application and all associated materials to the
Delaware County Regional Planning Commission for a review as required by
statute. The Delaware County Regional Planning Commission shall recommend the
approval, denial, or modification of the application to the Zoning Commission .
Such a recommendation shall be presented during the public hearing held by the
Zoning Commission .
2704.03   In the event that a proposed Zoning Map Amendment and Preliminary
Development Plan are located adjacent to another political jurisdiction, an
additional copy of the application shall be provided and forwarded to that
jurisdiction. Any comments provided by the adjoining jurisdiction shall be
presented during the public hearing of the Zoning Commission .
2704.04   Pursuant to ORC 5511.01, before any Zoning Map Amendment and
Preliminary Development Plan is approved affecting any land within three
hundred (300) feet of the centerline of a proposed new highway or highway for
which changes are proposed as described in the certification to local officials
by the Director of the Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT), or any land
within a radius of five hundred (500) feet from the point of intersection of
said centerline with any public road or highway, the Zoning Inspector or their
designee shall give notice, by registered mail to the Director of ODOT . The
Zoning Commission may proceed as required by law; however, the Township
Trustees shall not approve the amendment for one hundred twenty (120) days from
the date the notice is received by the Director of ODOT .
   A)   If the Director of ODOT notifies the Township Trustees that they shall
proceed to acquire any land needed, the Township Trustees may continue the
application, in accordance with the provisions herein, until the acquisition
has occurred, or may deny the application.
   B)   If the Director of ODOT notifies the Township Trustees that acquisition
at this time is not in the public interest or upon expiration of the one
hundred twenty (120) day period or any extension thereof agreed upon by the
Director of ODOT and the property owner, the Township Trustees shall proceed as
required by law.
2704.05   The Zoning Commission shall schedule a public hearing upon the filing
of an application for a Zoning Map Amendment and Preliminary Development Plan .
Said hearing shall not be less than twenty (20) nor, unless permitted by the
applicant, more than forty (40) days from the filing of such application.
2704.06   Before the required public hearing, notice shall be given by the
Zoning Inspector or their designee by any means authorized by the ORC . This
notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing, the nature of
the application, and a statement that after the conclusion of such public
hearing, the matter will be referred to the Township Trustees for final
consideration.
2704.07   If the proposed Zoning Map Amendment intends to Rezone or redistrict
ten (10) or fewer parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written
notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Zoning Inspector or their designee
by first class mail using pre-addressed, business-size envelopes provided by
the applicant at least ten (10) days before the date of the public hearing to
all owners of property within five hundred (500) feet of, Contiguous to, and
directly across the Street from such area proposed to be Rezoned or
redistricted, to the address of such owners appearing on the County Auditor’s
current tax list. The failure to deliver the notice, as provided in this
Section, shall not invalidate any application. This notice shall set forth the
time and place of the public hearing, the nature of the application, and a
statement that after the conclusion of such public hearing, the matter will be
referred to the Township Trustees for final consideration.
2704.08   The Zoning Commission may continue a public hearing to a future
meeting with the consent of the applicant. If said hearing is continued to a
date, time, and place certain, re-advertisement of the hearing is not required.
Otherwise, once a new meeting date, time, and place are determined, the
advertisement shall occur again in accordance with Sections
2704.06 and
2704.07.
2704.09   Revisions and/or supplemental materials shall be due on a date and
time determined by the Zoning Commission and/or in accordance with a pre-
determined schedule as authorized in Section
2701.03.
2704.10   Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Zoning Commission shall:
   A)   Vote, based upon findings of fact established pursuant to Section
2701.09, to recommend approval or denial of the Zoning Map Amendment ,
including any applicable Divergences; and subsequently submit said
recommendation together with the application and all associated materials to
the Township Trustees for their consideration; and
   B)   In a separate motion, vote to recommend approval or denial of the
Preliminary Development Plan , including any applicable Divergences and/or
conditions; and subsequently submit said recommendation together with the
application and all associated materials to the Township Trustees for their
consideration.
   C)   Be allowed to take more than thirty (30) days to make their
recommendations with the applicant’s consent.
2704.11   Following the recommendation(s) of the Zoning Commission , the Zoning
Inspector, or their designee, shall forward the Commission’s recommendation(s)
and reasons for said recommendation(s) to the Township Trustees .
2704.12   The Township Trustees shall acknowledge receipt of the Zoning
Commission’s recommendation(s) via resolution, and shall schedule a public
hearing date for the application, at the first regularly scheduled Township
Trustee meeting to occur following the Zoning Commission’s vote unless: said
meeting is canceled, a special meeting is scheduled within the required thirty
(30) day timeframe by the Township Trustees , or the initiator/applicant
requests and is granted otherwise a continuance by the Township Trustees , in
which case such action shall take place at the next subsequent regular or
special meeting of the Township Trustees. Unless otherwise authorized on the
record by the initiator/applicant, the date of said hearing shall be not more
than thirty (30) days from the Township Trustees ’ receipt and acknowledgment
of the recommendation from the Zoning Commission .
2704.13   Notice of the required public hearing shall be given by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee by any means authorized by the ORC . Said notice
shall be published at least ten (10) days before the date of the required
hearing. This notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing
and the nature of the application.
2704.14   If the proposed amendment intends to Rezone or redistrict ten (10) or
fewer parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written notice of the
hearing shall be mailed by the Zoning Inspector or their designee, by first
class mail using pre-addressed, business-size envelopes provided by the
applicant at least ten (10) days before the date of the public hearing to all
owners of property within five hundred (500) feet of, Contiguous to, and
directly across the Street from such area proposed to be Rezoned or
redistricted to the address of such owners appearing on the County Auditor’s
current tax list or lists that may be specified by the Township Trustees . The
failure to deliver the notice, as provided in this Section, shall not
invalidate the application. This notice shall set forth the time and place of
the public hearing and the nature of the application.
2704.15   The Township Trustees may continue a public hearing to a future
meeting with the consent of the applicant. If said hearing is continued to a
date, time, and place certain, re-advertisement of the hearing is not required.
Otherwise, once a new meeting date, time, and place are determined, the
advertisement shall occur again in accordance with Sections
2704.13 and
2704.14.
2704.16   Revisions and/or supplemental materials shall be due on a date and
time determined by the Township Trustees and/or in accordance with a pre-
determined schedule as authorized in Section
2701.03.
2704.17   Within twenty (20) days of the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Township Trustees shall:
   A)   Vote, based upon the findings of fact established pursuant to Section
2701.09, to approve, approve with modifications, or deny the Zoning Map
Amendment , including any applicable Divergences. The said vote is subject to
referendum pursuant to ORC 3519.01 , as may be amended.
   B)   In a separate, non-binding resolution, vote, based upon the findings of
fact established pursuant to 2701.09, to approve, approve with modifications,
or deny the Preliminary Development Plan , including any applicable Divergences
and/or conditions.
   C)   Be allowed to take more than twenty (20) days to make their decisions
with the applicant’s consent.
2704.18   A Zoning Map Amendment adopted by the Township Trustees shall become
effective thirty (30) days after the date of such adoption unless, within
thirty (30) days after the adoption of said amendment, there is presented to
the Township Trustees a referendum petition, in accordance with ORC 3519.01,
requesting the Township Trustees submit said amendment to the electors of such
area, for approval or rejection, at the next primary or general election.
Approval of a Preliminary Development Plan , being an administrative action,
shall not be subject to referendum.
2704.19   No Zoning Map Amendment for which such referendum vote has been
requested shall be put into effect unless a majority of the votes cast on the
issue are in favor of said amendment. Upon certification by the Board of
Elections that the amendment has been approved by the voters, it shall take
immediate effect.
2704.20   A Zoning Map Amendment , upon becoming effective, shall be permanent,
regardless of the status of the coinciding Preliminary Development Plan ,
future Final Development Plan , future Final Development Plan Amendments, and/
or Subdivision plat, unless a subsequent Zoning Map Amendment for the subject
Tract is applied for and approved in accordance with the terms of this Zoning
Resolution and ORC 519.12. Under no circumstances shall an approved and
effective Zoning Map Amendment be required to seek renewal or re-approval.
2704.21   Once a Zoning Map Amendment has become effective, the Zoning
Inspector or their designee shall update the Genoa Township Zoning Map
accordingly.
2704.22   An approved Preliminary Development Plan shall be valid for three (3)
years from the date of approval by the Township Trustees , so long as its
coinciding Zoning Map Amendment approval is not overturned via referendum.
Should a Final Development Plan for the subject development not be issued, or
at least applied for and actively pending decision, within the aforementioned
three (3) year time period, or should the coinciding Zoning Map Amendment
approval be overturned via referendum, the Preliminary Development Plan
approval shall be considered null and void unless an extension is requested and
approved pursuant to the provisions herein. The Township Trustees shall retain
the right to expressly extend the deadline at their discretion and without a
Divergence request. Such an extension shall be expressly stated and documented
in their motion of adoption.
   A)   Final Development Plan submission shall not be permitted for any Tract
whose Preliminary Development Plan approval has become null and void.
   B)   Should a Preliminary Development Plan approval become null and void due
to time expiration, a new Preliminary Development Plan approval shall be
applied for and obtained in accordance with the terms of this Zoning
Resolution, prior to application for the required Final Development Plan .
   C)   Should the Final Development application be withdrawn or denied after
the period of validity set forth herein for the Preliminary Development Plan
has expired, the Preliminary Development Plan approval shall similarly become
null and void.
   D)   Should a Preliminary Development Plan approval become null and void due
to the coinciding Zoning Map Amendment approval being overturned via
referendum, new Zoning Map Amendment and Preliminary Development Plan approvals
shall be applied for and obtained, in accordance with the terms of this Zoning
Resolution and ORC 519.12, prior to application for the required Final
Development Plan . The subject application shall be required to comply with the
Zoning Resolution in effect at the time it is filed, except for any previously
granted Divergences, which shall be subject to Section
2707.06 herein.
   E)   The Township Trustees shall also retain the right to extend the
deadline, post-approval but within the period of validity established herein,
at their discretion and without Divergence request or public hearing, provided
that the Trustees find that such extension is not in conflict with the public
interest.
      1)   Such a request shall be submitted in writing to the Zoning Inspector
by a party having standing no later than fourteen (14) days prior to
expiration.
      2)   A request for an extension shall not incorporate any revisions or
amendments to the Preliminary Development Plan .
      3)   The request for an extension shall be for no more than twelve (12)
months from the date the Preliminary Development Plan expires. There shall be
no limit on the number of such extension requests; however, the cumulative
number of months a Preliminary Development Plan may be extended shall not
exceed twelve (12) months, at which point such plan shall no longer be eligible
for an extension and becomes null and void.
      4)   A properly submitted request shall be considered at the next
regularly scheduled Trustees meeting. A special meeting may also be scheduled
for this purpose. The foregoing shall not preclude the Trustees from continuing
the topic to a subsequent meeting(s), however, a final decision on the matter
shall be made within forty-five (45) days of receipt of the written request by
the township.
         a)   Should the Preliminary Development Plan expire within the forty-
five (45) day window, a stay on the expiration shall be presumed until a
decision is made. Should Final Development Plan approval be obtained during
this time period, the terms of Section
2704.22 shall be considered satisfied, and the request for an extension shall
subsequently become moot and no longer necessary.
         b)   Should a decision not be rendered within forty-five (45) days of
receipt of the written request by the township, the request shall be deemed
approved; however, such approval shall still be subject to the restrictions set
forth in Section
2704.22.E.3 herein.
      5)   The following guidelines shall be reviewed and taken into
consideration by the Township Trustees when rendering a decision on an
extension request:
         a)   Whether amendment(s) to the Zoning Resolution and/or Zoning Map
have since been enacted that render the Preliminary Development Plan
substantially non-compliant with either of the aforementioned documents.
         b)   Whether there has been a significant change to the character of
the area where the Preliminary Development Plan is located.
         c)   Whether the extension would significantly affect traffic within
the immediate area where the Preliminary Development Plan is located in an
adverse manner.
         d)   Whether the extension would significantly affect the delivery of
public utilities and/or services in the immediate area where the Preliminary
Development Plan is located in an adverse manner.
         e)   Whether the extension would adversely affect the public health,
safety, and/or general welfare of Genoa Township.
         f)   Whether the extension would be expressly inconsistent with the
recommendations of the Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan currently in effect,
subject to the provisions of Section 108 of this Resolution.
2704.23   A Final Development Plan shall not be applied for until the required
Zoning Map Amendment has become effective pursuant to Sections
2704.18 –
2704.22.
Section 2705: Final Development Plan Submission Requirements
2705.01   Application. A fully completed, signed, and dated application, which
shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
   A)   The address(es) and Parcel Identification Number (s) (PIN) of the Tract
;
   B)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of the property owner
(s) of record, as listed on the tax list of the Delaware County Auditor at the
time of submission;
   C)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of the applicant(s)
of record, if different than that of the property owner;
   D)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of any engineers,
architect(s), attorneys, and/or consultants of record, if any.
   E)   Exact acreage of the Tract ;
   F)   The present Use (s) of the subject Tract ;
   G)   The Zoning District (s) comprising the subject Tract ;
   H)   Proposed Use (s) for the subject Tract ;
   I)   Proposed unit count and Density of the Planned Development , if
applicable.
   J)   Any additional information which may be requested on the official
application form.
2705.02   Documentation and Studies:
   A)   A legal description of the Tract ;
   B)   A complete list of all Parcel Identification Number (s) (PIN) within
the Tract ;
   C)   A Vicinity Map , on a sheet of paper no larger than 11” x 17”,
illustrating the size and location of the proposed Planned Development ,
existing Lot Lines , acreage, Parcel Identification Number (s) (PIN), existing
streets, existing Structure s and Sign s on or within five hundred (500) feet
of the property’s boundary, existing Zoning District classifications and
boundaries, and other such items;
   D)   If the applicant is not the current property owner of record, a letter
from the property owner(s) authorizing the applicant to submit the subject
application on their behalf and/or proof that the applicant has a legal
interest in the property in the form of an executed sales agreement, option,
transfer, or other similar type of legal instrument.
   E)   Letters from public utility providers confirming the availability of
services.
   F)   A traffic study, analysis, or memo, as required by Delaware County,
examining the impact of the development on existing infrastructure,
modifications required to handle the increased traffic, and the mechanism(s)
proposed to complete the necessary improvements. Genoa Township reserves the
right to request a traffic study, analysis, or memo during its review of the
application, even if one is not required by Delaware County.
   G)   Any other materials proving that all other required permits, licenses,
or approvals issued by a non-Township entity have been obtained, if applicable.
   H)   Any materials previously submitted during the Zoning Map Amendment and
Preliminary Development Plan approval process; updated and revised accordingly
to accurately reflect the proposed Final Development Plan .
   I)   A list of all property owners within five hundred (500) feet of,
Contiguous to, and directly across the street from the Tract , and others that
may have a legitimate, legal interest in the case, as they appear on the tax
list of the Delaware County Auditor at the time of submission.
      1)   The applicant shall provide one (1) set of pre-addressed, stamped
business-size envelopes with postage sufficient to send a notice via first-
class mail for each property owner listed.
      2)   A second set of envelopes shall be provided for the Township
Trustees hearing once the Zoning Commission has voted on their recommendation.
2705.03   Final Development Plan Text – A written document containing the
following:
   A)   A narrative describing the Planned Development , including all the
information listed in Section
2705.01, as well as:
      1)   The relationship and compatibility of the proposed Planned
Development to existing and probable Use s of surrounding areas during the
development timetable.
      2)   The proposed, non-binding time schedule for the development of the
site, including Streets , Building s, utilities, amenities, and other
facilities.
         a)   If the proposed timetable for development includes developing the
land in phases, all phases to be developed after the first shall be fully
described to provide township officials with guidelines for approval of future
phases.
         b)   Each phase of the proposed development, as it is proposed to be
completed, shall contain parking, Landscaping , utilities, drainage, and
stormwater management necessary for creating and sustaining a desirable and
suitable environment.
      3)   That the physical character of the site is suitable for development
in the manner proposed without creating hazards to people or property, on or
off the site, from the probability of flooding, erosion, subsidence, or
slipping of the soil or other dangers, annoyances, or inconveniences.
   B)   A review of the required Planned Development District requirements and
other applicable portions of the Zoning Resolution, including, but not
necessarily limited to: Article
16 (General Standards), Article
17 (Conditional and Special Use Standards), Article
18 (Sign Standards), Article
19 (Parking Standards), Article
20 (Landscaping Standards), and Article
21 (Lighting Standards); with detailed responses explaining how the proposal
complies with each standard.
   C)   Calculations demonstrating compliance with any required Density or Open
Space provisions for the Planned Development .
   D)   Limitations and controls that regulate the development, Use s, Open
Space management, and architecture. The text shall specify any controls that
are to be administered by a private organization.
   E)   Identification of parties responsible for the responsibility and
maintenance of any Open Space areas, facilities, amenities, and/or other
similar types of improvements within the Planned Development .
   F)   A specific list of all Divergences being requested, if any. Said list
shall be itemized in numerical order and shall cite the specific section number
(s) of the Zoning Resolution from which relief is desired, the verbatim
requirement of said section, what is being proposed in lieu of said
requirement, and the applicant’s justification for said request, citing the
standards found within Section
2707.
   G)   A review of the Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan with a detailed
analysis of how the proposal adheres to the recommendations of said Plan.
Should the proposal deviate from, or be inconsistent with, the Plan, an
explanation as to why such a deviation is warranted shall be provided.
Deviations from the Comprehensive Plan shall not be considered Divergences as
defined within this Zoning Resolution and shall not be subject to the
provisions of Section
2707.
   H)   The following statement(s):
      1)   “This Final Development Plan shall be subject to the provisions of
Sections
2706 and
2709 –
2713 of the Genoa Township Zoning Resolution, as may be amended.”
      2)   “In instances where the Final Development Plan is silent on a
matter, applicable provisions of the Genoa Township Zoning Resolution shall
control.”
   I)   Any other pertinent information.
2705.04   Final Development Plan Drawings – The Final Development Plan set of
drawings shall visually demonstrate compliance with the Zoning Resolution and
shall include the drawings listed below on both 11” x 17” (or smaller) and 24”
x 36” sheets of paper. All drawings shall include a north arrow. In addition,
24” x 36” drawings shall be drawn to scale with a scale for reference provided.
Two or more drawings may be combined into a single sheet so long as the
features and information on said drawings are legible and discernible from one
another. Phasing lines, if proposed, shall appear on each applicable drawing,
all regulated dimensions shall be labeled with measurements, and a legend shall
be provided identifying the meaning of any shapes, symbols, line types, colors,
etc. appearing on the drawing. The following shall be required as part of the
formal submittal:
   A)   An Existing Features Plan -drawing which illustrates the following
items within the Tract unless otherwise specified:
      1)   Tract boundaries and acreage;
      2)   One (1) foot contours based upon the nearest benchmark;
      3)   Primary Conservation Area s and Secondary Conservation Areas;
      4)   Soil boundaries as shown on USDA Natural Resource Conservation
Service maps;
      5)   Streams, wetlands, and other similar types of natural water features
on the Tract or within five hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      6)   Schools, parks, and other community facilities on the Tract or
within five hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      7)   Historic and/or cultural features on the Tract or within five
hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      8)   Building s, Structure s, or Sign s on the Tract or within five
hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      9)   Thoroughfare s and/or rail tracks on the Tract or within five
hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      10)   Sidewalks, Multi-Use Paths , or Trails on the Tract or within five
hundred (500) feet of the Tract;
      11)   Right-of-Ways and/or easements on the Tract or adjacent to the
Tract; and
      12)   An aerial photograph with USGS contours of the Tract and
immediately surrounding area.
   B)   A tree inventory plan-drawing identifying the locations, size, and type
of each existing tree, 3 inches or larger in caliper, on the Tract and whether
said tree will be preserved or removed as a result of the Planned Development ;
   C)   A grading plan-drawing illustrating grades, elevations, and stormwater
management facilities, pending approval by Delaware County;
   D)   A general site plan-drawing that clearly illustrates:
      1)   The boundaries and Frontage (s) of the Tract ;
      2)   The location, dimensions, and sizes of all proposed Lots .
      3)   All Setback s, buffers, and conservation areas;
      4)   The locations, dimensions, and, if applicable, intended Use s of all
proposed Building s, and/or Structure s;
      5)   The locations and dimensions of all proposed Sign s, parking lots,
pavement markings, landscape areas, Open Spaces, pedestrian/bicycle amenities,
stormwater management facilities, and other such site improvements;
      6)   Clearly illustrated and labeled phasing lines, if applicable;
      7)   A table comparing applicable zoning requirements, including Density
, to those that are proposed.
         a)   Calculations supporting the data in the table shall be provided.
         b)   Phased developments shall contain a column for each phase as well
as for the development as a whole; and
      8)   A list of all requested Divergences.
   E)   A utility plan-drawing illustrating the locations of all utilities and
easements, pending approval by Delaware County;
   F)   A lighting plan-drawing illustrating the locations of all proposed
light fixtures, both freestanding and those mounted to a Building , Structure ,
or Sign ;
   G)   A signage plan-drawing illustrating all proposed Sign dimensions and
locations;
   H)   An Open Space plan-drawing clearly identifying all areas to be
designated as Common Open Space or Improved Common Open Space ;
   I)   A landscape plan-drawing illustrating the exact locations of all
proposed plantings, buffers, and conservation areas;
   J)   A traffic control plan-drawing illustrating access points, traffic
patterns, and controls; pending approval by Delaware County and the Genoa
Township Fire Marshal;
   K)   A pedestrian/bicycle circulation plan-drawing illustrating any proposed
pedestrian/bicycle amenities, easements, and/or facilities, including
Sidewalks, Multi-Use Paths , Trails, and the like;
   L)   Construction design details, cut-sheets, specifications, and/or cross-
sections for all proposed fixtures, amenities, facilities, controls, pavement,
markings, and other such improvements;
   M)   Planting design details and specifications for all proposed plantings,
including types, sizes, Heights, and any other pertinent specifications; and
   N)   An architecture plan-drawing illustrating all proposed building designs
and construction materials, including color.
2705.05   Any final deed restrictions or covenants which may be part of the
proposal.
2705.06   Any other applicable documentation, studies, plans, and/or exhibits
necessary to demonstrate compliance, concepts, and/or address concerns related
to the request.
2705.07   One (1) optical disc, Universal Serial Bus (USB) flash drive, or
other similar type of readable storage device, containing the materials listed
in Sections
2705.01 -
2705.06 in Portable Document Format (.PDF) and/or another similar type of
widely utilized, non-proprietary digital format approved by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee.
2705.08   A fee as may be established by the Township Trustees .
2705.09   A response to comments letter shall be provided with each submitted
revision to identify and explain all the revisions made to the submission, and
to identify how any comments or concerns raised by staff, the Zoning Commission
, the Township Trustees , other agencies, and/or the general public have been
addressed.
2705.10   Number of Copies:
   A)   Ten (10) copies of the items listed herein, divided into sets, shall be
provided when the proposal is being submitted to the Zoning Commission for
review, unless otherwise noted.
   B)   Six (6) copies of the items listed herein, divided into sets, shall be
provided when the proposal is submitted to the Township Trustees for their
consideration, unless otherwise noted.
   C)   The Zoning Inspector, or their designee, is authorized to revise the
number of required copies, as necessary, for administrative purposes.
2705.11   The Township reserves the right to request additional information or
materials, as well as the right to request revisions of submittal materials for
the purposes of demonstrating compliance, correction, accuracy, transparency,
clarification, documentation, cross-referencing, administration, and/or
enforcement.
Section 2706: Final Development Plan Procedure
2706.01   In addition to any other procedures set out in this Resolution, all
applications for a Final Development Plan shall follow the procedures set forth
herein. A Final Development Plan shall not be applied for until any/all
required Zoning Map Amendment /Preliminary Development Plan (s) approvals have
been obtained and said Zoning Map Amendment has become effective pursuant to
Sections
2704.18 –
2704.22.
2706.02   In the event that a Final Development Plan is located adjacent to
another political jurisdiction, an additional copy of the application shall be
provided and forwarded to that jurisdiction. Any comments provided by the
adjoining jurisdiction shall be presented during the public hearing of the
Zoning Commission .
2706.03   The Zoning Commission shall schedule a public hearing upon the filing
of an application for a Final Development Plan . Said hearing shall not be less
than twenty (20) nor, unless permitted by the applicant, more than forty (40)
days from the filing of such application.
2706.04   Before the public hearing, notice shall be given by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee by any means authorized by the ORC . This notice
shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing, the nature of the
application, and a statement that after the conclusion of such public hearing,
the matter will be referred to the Township Trustees for final consideration.
2706.05   Written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Zoning Inspector
or their designee by first class mail using pre-addressed, business-size
envelopes provided by the applicant at least ten (10) days before the date of
the public hearing to all owners of property within five hundred (500) feet of,
Contiguous to, and directly across the Street from, the Tract to the address of
such owners appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list. The failure to
deliver the notice, as provided in this Section, shall not invalidate any
application. This notice shall set forth the time and place of the public
hearing, the nature of the application, and a statement that after the
conclusion of such public hearing, the matter will be referred to the Township
Trustees for final consideration.
2706.06   The Zoning Commission may continue a public hearing to a future
meeting with the consent of the applicant. If said hearing is continued to a
date, time, and certain re-advertisement of the hearing is not required.
Otherwise, once a new meeting date, time, and place are determined,
advertisement shall occur again in accordance with Sections
2706.04 and
2706.05.
2706.07   Revisions and/or supplemental materials shall be due on a date and
time determined by the Zoning Commission and/or in accordance with a pre-
determined schedule as authorized in Section
2701.03.
2706.08   Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Zoning Commission shall vote, based upon findings of fact established pursuant
to Section
2701.09, to recommend approval or denial of the Final Development Plan ,
including any applicable Divergences and/or conditions; and subsequently submit
said recommendation together with the application and all associated materials
to the Township Trustees for their consideration. The Zoning Commission shall
be allowed to take more than thirty (30) days to make its recommendation with
the applicant’s consent.
2706.09   Following the recommendation(s) of the Zoning Commission , the Zoning
Inspector, or their designee, shall forward the Commission’s recommendation(s)
and reasons for said recommendation(s) to the Township Trustees .
2706.10   The Township Trustees shall acknowledge receipt of the Zoning
Commission’s recommendation(s) via resolution, and shall schedule a public
hearing date for the application, at the first regularly scheduled Township
Trustee meeting to occur following the Zoning Commission’s vote unless: said
meeting is canceled, a special meeting is scheduled within the required thirty
(30) day timeframe by the Township Trustees , or the initiator/applicant
requests and is granted otherwise a continuance by the Township Trustees , in
which case such action shall take place at the next subsequent regular or
special meeting of the Township Trustees. Unless otherwise authorized on the
record by the initiator/applicant, the date of said hearing shall be not more
than thirty (30) days from the Township Trustees ’ receipt and acknowledgment
of the recommendation from the Zoning Commission .
2706.11   Notice of the required public hearing shall be given by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee by any means authorized by the ORC . Said notice
shall be published at least ten (10) days before the date of the required
hearing. This notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing
and the nature of the application.
2706.12   Written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Zoning Inspector
or their designee, by first class mail using pre-addressed, business-size
envelopes provided by the applicant at least ten (10) days before the date of
the public hearing to all owners of property within five hundred (500) feet of,
Contiguous to, and directly across the Street from the Tract to the address of
such owners appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list or lists that
may be specified by the Township Trustees . The failure to deliver the notice,
as provided in this Section, shall not invalidate the application. This notice
shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing and the nature of the
application.
2706.13   The Township Trustees may continue a public hearing to a future
meeting with the consent of the applicant. If said hearing is continued to a
date, time, and place certain, re-advertisement of the hearing is not required.
Otherwise, once a new meeting date, time, and place are determined,
advertisement shall occur again in accordance with Sections
2706.11 and
2706.12.
2706.14   Revisions and/or supplemental materials shall be due on a date and
time determined by the Township Trustees and/or in accordance with a pre-
determined schedule as authorized in Section
2701.03.
2706.15   Within twenty (20) days of the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Township Trustees shall:
   A)   Vote, based upon the findings of fact established pursuant to Section
2701.09, to approve, approve with modifications, or deny the Final Development
Plan , including any applicable Divergences and/or conditions.
   B)   Be allowed to take more than twenty (20) days to render a decision with
the applicant’s consent.
2706.16   A Final Development Plan approved by the Township Trustees , being an
administrative action not subject to referendum, shall become effective
immediately.
2706.17   A Final Development Plan approved by resolution of the Township
Trustees in accordance with the provisions herein shall be considered legally
binding and enforceable. Violation of any designs, provisions, terms,
conditions, restrictions, safeguards, or other similar types of controls or
standards shall be deemed a violation of this Zoning Resolution and subject to
the provisions of Section
116, as may be amended unless otherwise approved in accordance with this
Resolution.
2706.18   In instances where the approved Final Development Plan is silent or
unclear on a matter, the Zoning Resolution and/or any other existing and
applicable Legal Approvals shall retain control.
2706.19   An approved Final Development Plan shall be valid for three (3) years
from the date of approval by the Township Trustees . Should a Zoning Permit for
the subject development not be issued, or at least applied for and actively
pending decision, in accordance with Article
1, within the three (3) year time period, the Final Development Plan approval
shall be considered null and void unless an extension is requested and approved
pursuant to the provisions herein.
   A)   Should the subject pending Zoning Permit application be rescinded or
denied after the period of validity set forth herein has expired, the Final
Development Plan approval shall similarly become null and void.
   B)   The Township Trustees shall retain the right to extend the deadline at
their discretion and without a Divergence request. Such an extension shall be
expressly stated and documented in their motion of adoption of the Final
Development Plan .
   C)   The Township Trustees shall also retain the right to extend the
deadline, post-approval but within the period of validity established herein,
at their discretion and without Divergence request or public hearing, provided
that the Trustees find that such extension is not in conflict with public
interest.
      1)   Such a request shall be submitted in writing to the Zoning Inspector
by a party having standing no later than fourteen (14) days prior to
expiration.
      2)   A request for an extension shall not incorporate any revisions or
amendments to the Final Development Plan .
      3)   The request for an extension shall be for no more than twelve (12)
months from the date the Final Development Plan expires. There shall be no
limit on the number of such extension requests; however, the cumulative number
of months a Final Development Plan may be extended shall not exceed twelve (12)
months, at which point such plan shall no longer be eligible for an extension
and becomes null and void.
      4)   A properly submitted request shall be considered at the next
regularly scheduled Township Trustees ’ meeting. A special meeting may also be
scheduled for this purpose. The foregoing shall not preclude the Township
Trustees from continuing the topic to a subsequent meeting(s), however, a final
decision on the matter shall be made within forty-five (45) days of receipt of
the written request by the township.
         a)   Should the Final Development Plan expire within the forty-five
(45) day window, a stay on the expiration shall be presumed until a decision is
made. Should a Zoning Permit be obtained during this time, the terms of Section
2706.19 shall be considered satisfied, and the request for an extension shall
subsequently become moot and no longer necessary.
         b)   Should a decision not be rendered within forty-five (45) days of
receipt of the written request by the township, the request shall be deemed
approved; however, such approval shall still be subject to the restrictions set
forth in Section
2706.19.C.3 herein.
      5)   The following guidelines shall be reviewed and taken into
consideration by the Township Trustees when rendering a decision on an
extension request:
         a)   Whether amendment(s) to the Zoning Resolution and/or Zoning Map
have since been enacted that render the Final Development Plan substantially
non-compliant with either of the aforementioned documents.
         b)   Whether there has been a significant change to the character of
the area where the Final Development Plan is located.
         c)   Whether the extension would significantly affect traffic within
the immediate area where the Final Development Plan is located in an adverse
manner.
         d)   Whether the extension would significantly affect the delivery of
public utilities and/or services in the immediate area where the Final
Development Plan is located in an adverse manner.
         e)   Whether the extension would adversely affect the public health,
safety, and/or general welfare of Genoa Township.
         f)   Whether the extension would be expressly inconsistent with the
recommendations of the Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan currently in effect,
subject to the provisions of Section
108 of this Resolution.
2706.20   Should a Final Development Plan approval become null and void due to
time expiration, a new Final Development Plan approval shall be applied for and
obtained in accordance with the terms of this Zoning Resolution prior to the
issuance of any Zoning Permit s for the Planned Development . The subject
application shall be required to comply with the Zoning Resolution in effect at
the time it is filed with the exception of any previously granted Divergences.
Divergences shall be subject to Section
2707.06 herein.
Section 2707: Divergence Review and Conflicts with Other Sections
2707.01   Because of the special characteristics of Planned Development s,
special provisions governing the development of land for this purpose are
required. Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of
this Article and those of the other Sections of this Resolution, the provisions
of this Article shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this Section shall be
governed by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this Resolution.
Unless formal deviation from the Zoning Resolution is specifically approved as
a Divergence , the same shall be complied with. Formal consideration must be
requested by an applicant seeking approval of a Divergence to any requirements
in this Zoning Resolution, and no Divergence will be approved unless the
provisions of this subsection are met in accordance with the terms set forth
below.
2707.02   Use s are not subject to Divergence requests. Relief to Use
prohibitions may only be sought via the Variance process outlined in Article
3. Said Variance shall be obtained prior to applying for Planned Development
approvals.
2707.03   The Genoa Township Zoning Commission and the Township Trustees may
consider Divergences requested at the time of the filing of a Planned
Development application of any type, which is determined to be in compliance
with all other requirements, standards, and/or provisions listed in the Zoning
District where the proposed development will occur. If a request is made, the
applicant shall provide written development text, citing such requests, in
accordance with this Article.
2707.04   Divergences may be granted “per plan” during a public meeting of
either the Genoa Township Zoning Commission or the Township Trustees while
conducting a formal review of a development plan. The Township has
the discretion to determine whether requested Divergences are warranted based
on the applicant’s particular case. When acting on a requested Divergence , the
Zoning Commission and Township Trustees may approve a Divergence , provided
they determine that the benefits, improved arrangement, and design of the
proposed development justify the deviation from any requirements of this
Resolution and that the proposed Divergence is consistent with the purpose and
intent of this Resolution.
2707.05   Divergence requests shall demonstrate how granting the request will
advance public interests and the General Purposes of this Zoning Resolution, by
promoting, or not having an adverse impact on, one or more of the following
purposes:
   A)   The conservation and protection of the natural resources, scenic areas,
wildlife habitat, and the historical and unique natural features of the land;
   B)   The public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the present
and future inhabitants of Genoa Township;
   C)   The quality of life within Genoa Township through the protection of the
total environment, the prevention of Nuisance s and hazards, and the provision
of adequate light, air, and convenient access to property;
   D)   The assurance of the compatibility of land uses that are either
adjacent or in proximity to each other;
   E)   The orderly development of all lands within the Township to its
appropriate Use ;
   F)   The most appropriate use of land to facilitate and provide adequate
public and private improvements; and
   G)   Consistency with the recommendations of the official Genoa Township
Comprehensive Plan currently in effect, subject to the provisions of Section
108 of this Resolution.
2707.06   Divergences shall be permanent once granted and in effect and cannot
be repealed or rescinded. Divergences shall only be required to be re-requested
and re-considered should a subsequent proposal be applied for which seeks to
increase the degree of the granted Divergence , render the justification for a
Divergence moot, and/or should said proposal directly and substantially impact
and have a rational nexus to the: benefits of the development, improved
arrangement or design of the development, advancement of public interest, and/
or advancement of the General Purposes of the Zoning Resolution. Such a request
shall still be subject to the provisions and review criteria within Section
2707. The denial of a request to increase the degree of a previously granted
Divergence shall not nullify or void the Divergence as originally granted.
2707.07   Unless a deviation from this Zoning Resolution is specifically
approved as a Divergence , the same shall be complied with.
Section 2708: Subdivision Plat and Subdivision Regulations
2708.01   A Subdivision Plat of the Planned Development shall be submitted to
the Delaware County Regional Planning Commission for review and approval as/if
required by, and in accordance with, Delaware County’s Subdivision Regulations.
2708.02   The uniqueness of each proposal for a Planned Development may require
that there be a modification from the specifications established in the
Subdivision Regulations of Delaware County, Ohio. Variances for such
requirements shall be obtained from the Delaware County Regional Planning
Commission during the platting process.
2708.03   Should relief be granted by any Delaware County agency to any of
their respective regulations, Final Development Plan Amendment approval may
need to be sought if said relief results in a modification to the approved
Final Development Plan , or an approved Final Development Plan Amendment, per
Section
2710.
Section 2709: Zoning Compliance
2709.01   A Zoning Permit shall be required for any Planned Development
subdivision or plat to confirm that it complies with its approved Final
Development Plan , as may be amended pursuant to Sections
2710 -
2712. The Zoning Inspector may refuse to sign a final plat for recording until
said Zoning Permit is applied for and granted.
2709.02   A Zoning Permit shall be required for any Building , Structure , or
Sign within a Planned Development . Permits shall be applied for and processed
in accordance with Article
1 of this Zoning Resolution.
2709.03   Unless otherwise authorized by Section
2709.04 below, no Zoning Permit shall be issued for any Structure in any
portion of a Planned Development for which a plat is required by the Delaware
County Subdivision Regulations unless and until:
   A)   The final subdivision plat for that portion has been approved by the
Delaware County Regional Planning Commission , Delaware County Commissioners,
and recorded; and
   B)   A copy of the recorded final subdivision plat has been provided to the
Zoning Inspector.
2709.04   Zoning Permit s for Sign s may be issued prior to actions listed in
Sections
2709.03.A & B above upon payment of any required fees and submission of
detailed and specific plans demonstrating compliance with the approved Final
Development Plan , as may be amended pursuant to Sections
2710 -
2712.
2709.05   Upon completion of Sections
2709.03.A & B, the Zoning Inspector may issue Zoning Permit s for Structure s
upon payment of any required fees and submission of detailed and specific plans
demonstrating compliance with the approved Final Development Plan , as may be
amended pursuant to Sections
2710 -
2712.
2709.06   The Zoning Inspector may issue Zoning Permit s for Structure s within
Planned Development s not requiring a plat upon payment of any required fees
and submission of detailed and specific plans demonstrating compliance with the
approved Final Development Plan , as may be amended pursuant to Sections
2710 -
2712.
Section 2710: Modifications and Final Development Plan Amendments
2710.01   The Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to, but is not required
to, administratively approve limited revisions requested to an approved Final
Development Plan , or an approved Final Development Plan Amendment, at their
discretion so long as they are compliant with this Zoning Resolution, abide by
any specific conditions of approval, do not require a Divergence or Variance ,
and do not deviate from the spirit and intent of the aforementioned plans. Such
approval shall be documented and filed in the township’s records. These
revisions shall include, but are not necessarily limited to:
   A)   Re-organization and/or relocation of approved Landscaping , including
hardscapes.
   B)   Supplemental Landscaping , buffering, screening, and/or improvements
which is/are above and beyond what was approved as part of the approved plans,
including additional Pedestrianway s and supporting amenities.
   C)   Re-organization or relocation of Open Space , so long as the amount of
Open Space is not decreased and is required to adhere to the mandatory
requirements of a recognized governmental agency.
   D)   Minor or de minimis changes related to planting species, building
materials, specifications, designs, colors, and the like, but excluding the
outright removal of any such features that substantively impact the character
of the Final Development Plan .
   E)   The construction of recreational amenities, Pedestrianway s, and other
such improvements within Common Open Space and/or Improved Common Open Space
not otherwise designated as a No Build Zone . Such amenities include shelter
houses, fire pits, playgrounds, fitness equipment, athletic fields/courts ,
water features, garden sheds, fencing, walls, entrance features, benches, waste
receptacles, bike racks, pedestrian lighting, and the like.
   F)   Any addition and/or improvement totaling one hundred and twenty (120)
square feet or less in total area that is otherwise compliant with the terms
and conditions of the subject Final Development Plan and the Zoning Resolution
in effect at the time of the request.
   G)   Revised and/or additional signage so long as it is authorized by, and
entirely compliant with, the Zoning Resolution in effect at the time of the
request and does not violate any express terms or conditions of the Final
Development Plan .
   H)   Any other minor revisions necessary to accommodate the mandatory
requirements of a recognized governmental agency.
2710.02   Should a revision(s) beyond the scope specified in Section
2710.01 be desired and not subject to Section
2710.05, or should a revision not be granted by the Zoning Inspector, a request
to formally amend an approved Final Development Plan may be granted by the
Zoning Commission , subject to the requirements and procedures set forth
herein, so long as the Zoning Commission , after thorough examination of the
proposal, determines that the request does not constitute a Major Amendment as
further detailed in Section
2710.03, and thus is considered a Minor Amendment. The decision of the Zoning
Commission regarding an application found to be a Minor Amendment shall be
final unless an applicant exercises the provision of Section
2717.08.A.1.b herein.
2710.03   Should a Final Development Plan amendment request represent a
substantial departure from the intent of the original proposal, i.e., a Major
Amendment, said modification or amendment shall be subject to submission
requirements and procedures set forth herein. The following shall be considered
substantial departures from the original application and, following review and
recommendation by the Zoning Commission shall be subject to final consideration
by the Township Trustees :
   A)   A significant change in the Use or character of the development;
   B)   A significant increase in the overall coverage of Structure s;
   C)   An increase in the Density due to additional Dwelling s being proposed;
   D)   An increase in the problems of traffic circulation and public utilities
;
   E)   A significant reduction in approved Open Space ;
   F)   A reduction of required Off-Street parking and loading space;
   G)   A reduction in required pavement widths; or
   H)   A reduction of the acreage in the Planned Development .
2710.04   Major and Minor Amendment requests shall adhere to the submission and
procedural requirements of Sections
2711 and
2712, respectively.
   A)   Any proposed amendment that revises Zoning District boundaries and/or
classification shall be considered a Re-Zoning as well as an amendment to the
Preliminary Development Plan and Final Development Plan . As such, it shall be
required to adhere to, and pay applicable fees for:
      1)   A Zoning Map Amendment (Re-Zoning) and Preliminary Development Plan
application subject to Sections
2703 and
2704 herein; and
      2)   A Final Development Plan amendment application subject to Sections
2711 and
2712 herein.
2710.05   A property owner wishing to deviate from the Zoning Resolution shall
be permitted to apply for a Variance from the Board of Zoning Appeals and shall
not be required to apply for a Final Development Plan Amendment, so long as the
deviation only applies to said owner’s private Lot or Building Envelope ,
excluding Lots designated for Open Space ; and no other Lot , Building Envelope
, Tract , or portion thereof, within the Planned Development . Deviations from
standards specific to the Final Development Plan and not otherwise related to
Setback s shall not be permitted to apply for a Variance . Such a request shall
be subject to Sections
2710.01 –
2710.04.
Section 2711: Final Development Plan Amendment Submission Requirements
2711.01   Application –A fully completed, signed, and dated application which
shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
   A)   The address(es) and Parcel Identification Number (s) (PIN) of the
affected Lot (s) within the Tract ;
   B)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of the property owner
(s) of record, as listed on the tax list of the Delaware County Auditor at the
time of submission;
   C)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of the applicant(s)
of record, if different than that of the property owner;
   D)   The name(s), address(es), and contact information of any engineers,
architect(s), attorneys, and/or consultants of record, if any.
   E)   Exact acreage of the Lot (s) or Tract ;
   E)   The present Use (s) of the subject Tract ;
   F)   The Zoning District (s) comprising the subject Tract ;
   G)   Proposed Use (s) for the subject Tract ;
   H)   Proposed unit count and Density of the Planned Development , if
applicable.
   I)   Any additional information which may be requested on the official
application form.
2711.02   Documentation and Studies – Updated copies of any documents or
studies incorporated within the approved Final Development Plan , or any
previously approved Final Development Plan Amendments, which are affected by
the proposed modification(s) and incorporate any necessary revisions to reflect
said modification(s).
2711.03   Final Development Plan Amendment Text – An updated copy of the Final
Development Plan Text incorporated with the approved Final Development Plan ,
or any previously approved Final Development Plan Amendments, which incorporate
any necessary revisions to reflect the requested modification(s). All revisions
shall be visually called out utilizing underlining, a strike-thru font,
highlighting, notations, and/or other similar types of formatting. The
following statement(s) shall also be provided in the text:
   A)   “This Final Development Plan and its approved Amendment(s) shall be
subject to the provisions of Sections
2706,
2711, and
2709 –
2713 of the Genoa Township Zoning Resolution, as may be amended.”
   B)   “In instances where the Final Development Plan , including any
Amendment(s), is silent on a matter, any and all applicable provisions of the
Genoa Township Zoning Resolution shall control.”
2711.04   A list of all property owners within five hundred (500) feet of,
Contiguous to, and directly across the Street from the Tract , and others that
may have a legitimate, legal interest in the case, as they appear on the tax
list of the Delaware County Auditor at the time of submission.
   A)   The applicant shall provide one (1) set of pre-addressed, stamped
business-size envelopes with postage sufficient to send a notice via first-
class mail for each property owner listed.
   B)   Should a hearing with the Township Trustees be required, a second set
of envelopes shall be provided for said hearing once the Zoning Commission has
voted on their recommendation.
2711.05   Final Development Plan Amendments - Updated copies of any plans,
drawings, or exhibits incorporated within the approved Final Development Plan ,
or any previously approved Final Development Plan Amendments, which are
affected by the proposed modification(s) and incorporate any necessary
revisions to reflect said modification(s).
2711.06   Any updated or revised final deed restrictions or covenants, if
applicable.
2711.07   Any other supplemental documents, studies, plans, and/or exhibits
necessary to demonstrate compliance, concepts, and/or address concerns related
to the request, as well as a written analysis comparing the proposed
modifications to the provisions of Section
2710.03.
2711.08   One (1) optical disc, Universal Serial Bus (USB) flash drive, or
other similar type of readable storage device, containing the materials listed
in Sections
2711.01 -
2711.06 in Portable Document Format (.PDF) and/or another similar type of
widely utilized, non-proprietary digital format approved by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee.
2711.09   A fee as may be established by the Township Trustees .
2711.10   A response to comments letter shall be provided with each submitted
revision to identify and explain all the revisions made to the submission, and
to identify how any comments or concerns raised by staff, the Zoning Commission
, the Township Trustees , other agencies, and/or the general public have been
addressed.
2711.11   Number of Copies:
   A)   Ten (10) copies of the items listed herein, divided into sets, shall be
provided when the proposal is being submitted to the Zoning Commission for
review unless otherwise noted.
   B)   Six (6) copies of the items listed herein, divided into sets, shall be
provided if/when the proposal is being submitted to the Township Trustees for
their consideration unless otherwise noted.
   C)   The Zoning Inspector, or their designee, is authorized to revise the
number of required copies, as necessary, for administrative purposes.
2711.12   The Township reserves the right to request additional information or
materials, as well as the right to request revisions of submittal materials for
the purposes of demonstrating compliance, correction, accuracy, transparency,
clarification, documentation, cross-referencing, administration, and/or
enforcement.
Section 2712: Final Development Plan Amendment Procedure
2712.01   In addition to any other procedures set out in this resolution, all
applications for a Final Development Plan Amendment shall follow the procedures
herein. A Final Development Plan Amendment shall only be applied for once the
Final Development Plan has been approved, in accordance with Section
2706, by the Township Trustees .
2712.02   In the event that a Final Development Plan Amendment is located
adjacent to another political jurisdiction, an additional copy of the
application shall be provided and forwarded to that jurisdiction. Any comments
provided by the adjoining jurisdiction shall be presented during the public
hearing of the Zoning Commission .
2712.03   The Zoning Commission shall schedule a public hearing upon the filing
of an application for a Final Development Plan Amendment. Said hearing shall
not be less than twenty (20) nor, unless permitted by the applicant, more than
forty (40) days from the filing of such application.
2712.04   Before the public hearing, notice shall be given by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee by any means authorized by the ORC . This notice
shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing, the nature of the
application, and a statement that after the conclusion of such public hearing,
the matter may be referred to the Township Trustees for final consideration.
2712.05   Written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Zoning Inspector
or their designee by first class mail using pre-addressed, business-size
envelopes provided by the applicant at least ten (10) days before the date of
the public hearing to all owners of property within five hundred (500) feet of,
Contiguous to, and directly across the Street from the Tract to the address of
such owners appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list. The failure to
deliver the notice, as provided in this Section, shall not invalidate any
application. This notice shall set forth the time and place of the public
hearing, the nature of the application, and a statement that after the
conclusion of such public hearing, the matter may be referred to the Township
Trustees for final consideration.
2712.06   The Zoning Commission may continue a public hearing to a future
meeting with the consent of the applicant. If said hearing is continued to a
date, time, and certain re-advertisement of the hearing is not required.
Otherwise, once a new meeting date, time, and place are determined, the
advertisement shall occur again in accordance with Sections
2712.04 and
2712.05.
2712.07   Revisions and/or supplemental materials shall be due on a date and
time determined by the Zoning Commission and/or in accordance with a pre-
determined schedule as authorized in Section
2701.03.
2712.08   Within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Zoning Commission shall:
   A)   Vote, based upon findings of fact, to determine if the request shall be
deemed a Minor Amendment or a Major Amendment pursuant to provisions set forth
in Section
2710.
      1)   If the application is considered a Minor Amendment, the Zoning
Commission shall:
         a)    Vote, based upon the findings of fact established pursuant to
Section
2701.09, to approve, approve with modifications or deny the Final Development
Plan Amendment, including any applicable Divergences and/or conditions. The
Zoning Commission’s vote shall be final and binding. No further hearing with
the Township Trustees shall occur; however, Sections
2712.06 and
2712.16 –
2712.19 herein shall remain applicable.
         b)   Should the Zoning Commission deny a request deemed to be a Minor
Amendment, an applicant may request the Township Trustees consider their
application pursuant to the procedures set forth in Sections
2712.09 –
2712.19 herein. Such a request shall be submitted in writing to the Zoning
Inspector or their designee within ten (10) days of the Zoning Commission’s
decision.
      2)   If the application is considered a Major Amendment, the Zoning
Commission shall:
         a)    Vote, based upon findings of fact established pursuant to
Section
2701.09, to recommend: approval or denial of the Final Development Plan
Amendment, including any applicable Divergences and/or conditions; and
subsequently submit said recommendation together with the application and all
associated materials to the Township Trustees for their consideration.
   B)   Be allowed to take more than thirty (30) days to render their decision
or make a recommendation with the applicant’s consent.
2712.09   Following the recommendation(s) of the Zoning Commission , the Zoning
Inspector, or their designee, shall forward the Commission’s recommendation(s)
and reasons for said recommendation(s) to the Township Trustees .
2712.10   The Township Trustees shall acknowledge receipt of the Zoning
Commission’s recommendation(s) via resolution, and shall schedule a public
hearing date for the application, at the first regularly scheduled Township
Trustee meeting to occur following the Zoning Commission’s vote unless: said
meeting is canceled, a special meeting is scheduled within the required thirty
(30) day timeframe by the Township Trustees , or the initiator/applicant
requests and is granted otherwise a continuance by the Township Trustees , in
which case such action shall take place at the next subsequent regular or
special meeting of the Township Trustees. Unless otherwise authorized on the
record by the initiator/applicant, the date of said hearing shall be not more
than thirty (30) days from the Township Trustees ’ receipt and acknowledgment
of the recommendation from the Zoning Commission .
2712.11   Notice of the required public hearing shall be given by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee by any means authorized by the ORC . Said notice
shall be published at least ten (10) days before the date of the required
hearing. This notice shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing
and the nature of the application.
2712.12   Written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Zoning Inspector
or their designee, by first class mail using pre-addressed, business-size
envelopes provided by the applicant at least ten (10) days before the date of
the public hearing to all owners of property within five hundred (500) feet of,
Contiguous to, and directly across the Street from the Tract to the address of
such owners appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list or lists that
may be specified by the Township Trustees . The failure to deliver the notice,
as provided in this Section, shall not invalidate the application. This notice
shall set forth the time and place of the public hearing and the nature of the
application.
2712.13   The Township Trustees may continue a public hearing to a future
meeting with the consent of the applicant. If said hearing is continued to a
date, time, and place certain, re-advertisement of the hearing is not required.
Otherwise, once a new meeting date, time, and place are determined, the
advertisement shall occur again in accordance with Sections
2712.11 and
2712.12.
2712.14   Revisions and/or supplemental materials shall be due on a date and
time determined by the Township Trustees and/or in accordance with a pre-
determined schedule as authorized in Section
2701.03.
2712.15   Within twenty (20) days of the conclusion of the public hearing, the
Township Trustees shall:
   A)   Vote, based upon findings of fact established pursuant to Section
2701.09, to approve, approve with modifications, or deny the Final Development
Plan Amendment, including any applicable Divergences and/or conditions.
   B)   Be allowed to take more than twenty (20) days to render their decision
with the applicant’s consent.
2712.16   A Final Development Plan Amendment approved by the Zoning Commission
or Township Trustees , being an administrative action not subject to
referendum, shall become effective immediately.
2712.17   A Final Development Plan Amendment approved by resolution of the
Zoning Commission or Township Trustees in accordance with the provisions herein
shall be considered legally binding and enforceable. Violation of any designs,
provisions, terms, conditions, restrictions, safeguards, or other similar types
of controls or standards shall be deemed a violation of this Zoning Resolution
and subject to the provisions of Section
116, as may be amended unless otherwise approved in accordance with this
Resolution.
2712.18   A Final Development Plan Amendment approved by the Zoning Commission
or Township Trustees shall be limited to the revisions expressly detailed and
incorporated within the approved application. In instances where the approved
Final Development Plan Amendment is silent or unclear on a matter, the Zoning
Resolution and/or any other existing and applicable Legal Approvals shall
retain control.
2712.19   An approved Final Development Plan Amendment shall be valid for three
(3) years from the date of approval by the Township Trustees . The terms,
conditions, requirements, and procedures for Final Development Plan validity
and extension requests found in Section
2706.19 shall apply to Final Development Plan Amendments.
2712.20   Should a Final Development Plan Amendment approval become null and
void due to time expiration, the existing Final Development Plan and any other
existing and applicable Legal Approvals shall remain in effect unless or until
a new Final Development Plan Amendment application is applied for and approved
in accordance with this Zoning Resolution. The application shall be required to
comply with the Zoning Resolution in effect at the time it is filed, except for
any previously granted Divergences. Divergences shall be subject to Section
2707.06 herein.
Section 2713: Enforcement
2713.01   Two (2) final, clean paper copies of any approved plans, which
address all outstanding comments, concerns, and/or conditions cited in the
approval motion for said plan, shall be submitted to and approved by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee, prior to issuance of any Zoning Permit for the
Planned Development .
   A)   A response to comments letter shall be provided with the submission to
identify and explain all the revisions made to the submission, and to identify
how any comments, concerns, and/or conditions have been addressed.
   B)   One (1) optical disc, Universal Serial Bus (USB) flash drive, or other
similar type of readable storage device, containing a complete copy of the
submission in Portable Document Format (.PDF) and/or another similar type of
widely utilized, non-proprietary digital format approved by the Zoning
Inspector or their designee shall also be provided.
2713.02   The Zoning Inspector shall ensure all Zoning Permit s issued for the
Planned Development are in accordance with the provisions of the approved Final
Development Plan and any approved Final Development Plan Amendment(s).
2713.03   If the Zoning Inspector shall find that the provisions of the
approved Final Development Plan , Final Development Plan Amendment(s), or any
related Zoning Permit , are not being adhered to, they shall follow the
procedures of Section
116, and/or direct applicable parties to apply for a Final Development Plan
Amendment pursuant to Sections
2710 -
2712, in order to remedy any violations.
2713.04   Administrative Appeals pertinent to a Planned Development shall be
administered in accordance with Section
306.
***** History of Genoa Township Zoning & Planning *****
The following history was compiled based on noteworthy historical information
available to Genoa Township and is accurate to the best of our knowledge:
Genoa Township’s initial zoning resolution was adopted by the Township Trustees
on October 22, 1951, but only regulated the use of properties located east of
Tussic Street Road. This code contained only one (1) Zoning District for
residential development but laid out the basic framework for the Township’s
Zoning Commission (ZC) and Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) as they exist today.
The Resolution was upheld by residents during a General Election of registered
voters held on November 6, 1951. This resolution was later amended on November
15, 1969, to update references to the Ohio Revised Code (ORC ), expand the
minimum Floor Area requirements, clarified Frontage requirements, clarified
responsibilities of the BZA, and defined an advertising advice and average
grade.
A zoning resolution was adopted in 1956 for properties located west of Tussic
Street Road in Genoa Township. This resolution provided three zoning districts
being a residential, commercial, and industrial district. This resolution was
later amended on November 2, 1971, for much of the same purposes as specified
above for the eastern code. The 1971 amendments also separated the commercial
Zoning District into eight (8) separate districts.
On April 16, 1982, two graduate students with The Ohio State University (OSU)
City and Regional Planning Program completed an issue paper on “Revision of the
Genoa Township Zoning Code(s).” The authors recommended revising the code(s)
with the potential for a combined Zoning Resolution for Genoa Township. A class
of college students in the School of Natural Resources at The Ohio State
University (OSU) voluntarily completed “A Land Use Study of Genoa Township”
during their Winter Quarter of classes in 1984 under the direction of Dr.
Disinger. The report was published on March 12, 1984.
On May 2, 1985, the Genoa Township Board of Trustees contracted with OSU’s
School of Natural Resources to complete a survey of citizens regarding the
future of land use and zoning in the Township. A report from the survey was
published on July 30, 1987. In conjunction with this report, in June 1987 the
Zoning Commission published the Township’s first master plan, titled “Genoa
Township Recommended Land Use Policy Statements.”
A revised Zoning Resolution was adopted on October 20, 1987 combining the east
and west codes and establishing the following zoning districts: Critical
Resource Area (CRA), Flood Plain (FP), Agricultural Residential (AR), Rural
Residential (RR), Suburban Residential (SR), Planned Residential (PD-1),
Community Business (CB), Planned Commercial-Office (PD-2) and Planned
Industrial-Warehouse (PD-3). The Zoning Map was also updated to reflect these
new districts when it took effect on November 19, 1987.
The Zoning Resolution was thereafter amended on the following effective dates
with the following notable amendments:
·   June 21, 1991 – established CRA maximum density of 1 unit per acre.
·   November 15, 1991 – established Community Facilities (CF) District, further
restricted antennas (including cellular towers), applied conditional use
standards for common access driveways, added regulations for access drives and
appurtenant structures.
·   February 21, 1992 – amended RR on Zoning Map to SR south of Freeman Road,
west of State Route 3 over to Orange Township.
·   June 26, 1992 – deleted AR district.
·   September 10, 1992 - changes to the Community Facilities District
(telecommunication towers changes to a conditional use from a permitted use)
·   June 15, 1994 – amendments to Home Occupation standards
·   October 27, 1995 – added provision for ?Off-Site Common Open Spaces?
In March 1996 separate groups of OSU graduate students from the City and
Regional Planning Program voluntarily developed a “Socioeconomic
Characteristics of Genoa Township” report, a “Genoa Township Vision Plan –
2010: Managing the Rural Landscape” report and an “Infrastructure Report for
Genoa Township.”
After contracting with the Township Trustees to update the master plan,
consultants Frank Elmer Associates published a “Genoa Township Comprehensive
Plan ” in February 1997. On June 1, 1998, consultants Burns, Bertsch & Harris
published a “Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan .” Neither plan was adopted by
the Township Trustees .
The Zoning Resolution was thereafter amended on the following effective dates
with the following notable amendments:
·   December 12, 1997 – changes to fence and deck regulations.
·   August 28, 1998 – amendments to the CF District.
After Burns, Bertsch & Harris published a copy of the “Genoa Township
Comprehensive Plan ” the Township Trustees established a steering committee of
Township residents to review the document and offer guidance to the Board. The
steering committee then prepared a “Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan ” that
was adopted by the Township Trustees on January 17, 1999. The Zoning Resolution
was thereafter amended on the following effective dates with the following
notable amendments:
·   February 17, 1999 (recorded)
·   February 24, 2000 (recorded)
·   December 15, 2000 – CF district made a ?Planned District?
·   February 2, 2002 (recorded) – residential driveway setback requirements
added.
·   April 26, 2003 – Application for Zoning Permit section rewritten
·   December 12, 2003 – Added Planned Rural Residential Conservation District
(PRRCD)
·   February 24, 2007 – Added Divergence review criteria to Planned
 Development Standards .
·   January 26, 2008 – Added new Section to provide criteria for BZA permitted
principal use determination (substantially similar). 
·   April 11, 2008 – Added Trustee review to PRRCD.
·   July 10, 2009 – Reorganized code sections to be more user-friendly.
After the Township Trustees contracted with Delaware County Regional Planning
Commission (DCRPC) , a “Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan ” was drafted in
2004. This plan was not adopted by the Township Trustees . In 2006 the Township
Trustees established a new steering committee of Township residents to update
the 1999 Comprehensive Plan . The Board then contracted with Otterbein
College’s Department of Communication to survey residents. On September 17,
2007, the College published the “Genoa Voices Report.” The Board adopted the
“Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan : 2008” on December 10, 2008. The Board then
amended and adopted the “Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan : 2009” on December
10, 2009, to amend land use recommendations for lands east of the Hoover
Reservoir as a result of additional public meetings.
The Zoning Resolution was thereafter amended on the following effective dates
with the following notable amendments:
·   May 1, 2010 – Corrected errors from the previously adopted version.
·   June 26, 2011 – Implemented recommendations from the 2009 Comprehensive
Plan .
·   February 9, 2013 – Modified Corner Lot  setbacks , allowed patios at the
same setbacks as decks, modified accessory building standards and removed
requirement for attached garage in RR district.
The Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan was updated on December 1, 2016. The
Zoning Resolution was thereafter amended on the following effective dates with
the following notable amendments:
·   March 3, 2018 – Complete revision of sign regulations to comply with the
Reed v. Gilbert U.S. Supreme Court decision as well as modification, addition,
and/or deletion of various definitions pertaining to said revision.
The 2016 Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan was further revised on January 7,
2019. The Zoning Resolution was thereafter amended on the following effective
dates with the following notable amendments:
·   February 5, 2019 – Revised regulations and terms pertaining to the Planned
Residential District (PRD), deleted the Low-Density Planned Residential
Development District (PRD-V), and added Landscaping standards.
·   October 31, 2020 – Corrected several legal discrepancies (agriculture ,
agritourism , Farm Market s, public utilities , residential care facilities ,
quorums); added clear regulations for Sexually Oriented Businesses; deleted the
Planned Rural Residential Conservation Development (PRRCD) zoning district;
added a new article with detailed provisions for planned development procedures
(Article
27), clarified administrative processes, and made numerous other revisions to:
reflect practices, address frequent enforcement issues, and provide for
consistency and clarity.
·   October 20, 2022 – Creation of the Hoover Watershed Overlay District and
clarification regarding the procedures for developments in the Planned
Industrial District (PID).
The 2016 Genoa Township Comprehensive Plan was once again revised on April 20,
2023. The Zoning Resolution was thereafter amended on the following effective
dates with the following notable amendments:
·   May 20, 2023 – Revised development densities and the Suburban Residential
minimum lot size requirement to align with those recommended in the updated
comprehensive plan so as to not create a conflict between the two documents and
made several other related revisions to provide for consistency.
·   May 14, 2026 – An omnibus amendment that, amongst other things: overhauled
how land uses are classified, defined, permitted, and regulated; established
specific, prescriptive standards for all land uses classified as conditional
uses; modernized parking standards; replaced current Landscaping requirements
with a new, more in depth set of requirements; addressed numerous matters
pertaining to zoning authority, administration, enforcement challenges, and
legal matters; improved consistency throughout the document in terms of
citations, terminology, standards and verbiage, including intents and purposes
sections; standardized the structure and flow of the document; relocated
regulations pertaining to fences, swimming pools, and other such items to
General Standards and those pertaining to agriculture and temporary uses to
their own articles; added provisions pertaining to cluster box (mail) units as
well to address new technologies, such as battery energy storage systems, data
centers, and solar farms; and provided for greater clarification regarding when
zoning permit s are/are not required.
 
**** ZONING MAP ****
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2618d6db540df1d78d244189faeafade7a503425/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3765.png]
 
